                         Business Meeting IRl   Work Session IZI
                         Yes D No IRl Undetermined □
                         Denied D Approved IZl Co.A1~inued D
                         CM Signature: _ _L ~ f;tL_



Appendix 1- Agendas for February 17, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business
Meeting

Appendix 2 - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 1/20/2026 and 2/03/2026 and
Mayor and City Council Retreat 1/24/2026.

Appendix 3 - Staff Report/ Public Safety Firearms Training Facility .Jared Gerber

Appendix 4 - Staff Report/ Interfaith Coalition Mayor Bennion

Appendix 5 - Staff Report/City Hall Hours Discussion Jared Gerber

Appendix 6 - Staff Report/Action Items Shane Topham


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
Attachment 1- Ordinance 462
Attachment 2 - Resolution 2026-12
Attachment 3 - Resolution 2026-13
Attachment 4 - Resolution 2026-14
Attachment 5 - Resolution 2026-15
                                       ,:,..
                                  ( A-
                                     J I ·"\,,'

                      Cottonwood Heights
                      (.';1y lu11,,u11 th,- r,tn_)om




                     Appendix 1

                  February 17, 2026

City Counci] Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, February 17, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to h ttps ://'t",·ww.voutuhc.conv'((i:CottonwoodH eights/st reams , the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.      1.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.      REPORTS
                    a. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District - General Manager Evan
                       Tyrrell (20 min.)

               4.     STAFF REPORTS
                      (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                      keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                      allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                      regarding any changes since the report was made).

                    a. Public Safety Firearms Training Facility
                         City Manager Jared Gerber (40 min.)
                    b. Interfaith Coalition Discussion
                         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (20 min.)
                    c. City Hall Hours Discussion
                       City Manager Jared Gerber (IO min.)


              5.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS 1'
                      a. Senior Bingo at City Hall- Wednesday, February l 8, 2026, at l :30 p.m.
                         at City Hall
                      b. Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Exhibit - Monday, February 20
                         to Monday, March 18, 2026
                      c. The Jazz Ambassadors of The United States Army Field Band -
                         Thursday, March 19, 2026, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at Butler Middle
                         School (Tickets Required, Free Event)
                      d. Cottonwood Heights City Book Group - Thursday, March 26 at 7:00
                         p.m.
     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOVand click Community
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                    .....,.~0--U'(        Ji:'..,,    I



                                            ottonwood Heights
                                          C.'h}' be:iu,~c1; the-. cc1nyonJ



            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, February 17, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://-w\V'\\.voutuhc.com/((1:;CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder(ii,;.ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELC01\1E - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMl\flTTEE REPORTS
               3 .1    Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2     Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3.3     Committee Repo1ts by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3 .4    Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (3 min.)

               4.0    CITIZENCOMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " {Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are submitted timely will be admitted into the
                      record q(the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.
5.0   PUBLIC HEARING
5.1   Public Hearing to Receive Input on the Proposed Budget Amendments for
      the 2025-2026 Fiscal Year--Introduction by Administrative and Fiscal
      Services Director Scott Jurges (IO min.)

6.0   REPORTS
6.1   CHPD Quarterly Report - Chief Robby Russo

7.0   ACTION ITEMS
7.1   Consideration of Ordinance 462 Adopting an Amended Budget for 1 July
      2025 through 30 June 2026.
      (The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend their budgets at least
      quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since the budget was adopted. This
      ordinance will approve an amendment to the city's current [2025-2026} budget).
7.2   Consideration of Resolution 2026-12 Making Appointments to the Unified
      Fire Authority Board.
      (By this resolution, the council will approve the appointments ofMayor Gay Lynn
      Bennion, as the regular member, and Councilmember Suzanne Hyland, as the
      alternate member, to represent the city on the Unified Fire Authority Board).
7.3   Consideration of Resolution 2026-13 Approving and Ratifying the
      Appointments of Members to the Cottonwood Heights Citizens Budget
      Advisory Committee.
      (By this resolution the council will approve and ratify the appointments of the
      members ofthe city's citizen budget advis01y committee).
7.4   Consideration of Resolution 2026-14 Approving a Consulting Agreement
      for Budgetary Matters.
      (This resolution will approve the city's entry into a consulting agreement
      whereunder Kerri Nakamura and Associates will provide services in connection
      with the city's FY 2026-2 7 budgetary process).
7.5   Consideration of Resolution 2026-15 Approving an Appointment to the
      Health in the Heights Advisory Committee.
      (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment ofDanielle LeCourt to
      the city's Health in the Heights adviso1y committee).

8.0   CONSENTCALENDAR
8.1   Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
      Meetings of January 20, 2026, and February 03, 2026, along with the Mayor
      and City Council Retreat of January 24, 2026.

9.0   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS M..EETING
                                         PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2 .30 .160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
      no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
      present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
      minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
      In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
      speakers will be detennincd by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
      submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council bul not read at
      the public meeting.



On Thursday, February 12, 2026, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by /he Office qfthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at ww11 ·.ch. utali.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at ht11>.l/p11111. urah ,z01·.

DATED thfr 12th day of February 2026                                       Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests/or reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or reconlcr(o ch 11tah !(Or at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                     Cottonwood Heights
                     C11)· be1wa111ht (1/1()"'"




                    Appendix 2

               MEETING MINUTES
City Council Meetings on 1/20/2026 and 2/03/2026 and
      Mayor and City Council Retreat 1/24/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                         Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                                 Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council
                                 Member Shawn Newell

Planning Commissioners:          Lucy Anderson, Mike Smith, Dan Poulson, Mike Shelton, Sean
                                 Steinman, Dan Mills, Garry Barnes

Staff Present:                   City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                                 Director, Scott Jurgcs; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture,
                                 and Human Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                                 Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                                 Spung; Planner III, Sheldon Howa; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public
                                 Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     CITY COUNCIL RE\-1:EW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mavor Gav Lvnn
        Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be led
by Council Member Newell, followed ~y the Citizen Comment Period. Item 4.1 would be
Cottonwood Heights Police Department ("CHPD") promotions.

Item 5.1 was the consideration of Resolution 2026-07, Awarding a Retiring Police Officer His Badge
and Approving His Purchase of a Police Fireann. Sergeant Dan Morzelewski is retiring after 32 years
of public service, including 17 with CHPD. As authorized by City Code, Sergeant Morzelewski will
be awarded his badge and allowed to purchase his sidcmm.

Council Member Hyland reported that Sergeant Morzelewski has accepted the Director of Parks
position with the Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Center. Police Chief, Robby Russo
stated that he began working at the Recreation Center when he was 15 years old.

Mayor Bennion stated that City Manager, Jared Gerber, was participating remotely as he recently had
surgery.

Item 5.2 was the consideration of Resolution 2026-08 Ratifying Committee Assigmnents. Item 5.3
was consideration of Resolution 2026-09 Approving a Temporary Occupancy Concurrence Request
by UDOT. Both items were discussed later in the Work Session.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                        1
Council Member Hyland requested that approval of the January 6, 2026, City Council Meeting
Minutes be postponed as they were received that day, and she did not have time to review them. It
was agreed that the item would be postponed.

3.0       STAFF REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION

          3.1   Utah Renewable Communities Discussion. Planner III Sheldon Howa.

Mayor Bennion reported that the City Council would not vote on this item until March or April 2025.

Plam1er IJI, Sheldon Howa, provided an overview of the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC")
program.

The URC is a coalition of 19 cities advancing a clean energy program for homes and businesses in
these communities. The primary goal is to make net-100% clean electricity available to participating
communities by 2030 in partnership with Rocky Mountain Power. The goal will be accomplished by
utilizing existing clean energy sources and acquiring new sources to match l 00% of annual energy
consumed annually. The program was enabled by the Utah Community Renewable Energy Act of
2019.

The URC worked with Rocky Mountain Power to develop the URC Program Application. The
application was fully submitted to the Utah Public Service Commission ("PSC") for review in June
2025. Technical and public witness hearings were held on the application in December 2025, and a
final ruling is expected by March 2026.

The URC solicited bids for clean energy resources (solar, wind, geothermal, hydroelectric, etc.) that:

      •   Interco1mcct directly with PacifiCorp transmission grid.
      •   Are located in Utah, Wyoming, or Idaho.
      •   They are between two and 300 megawatts in size.
      •   Can achieve commercial operation no later than December 31, 2029.

Ten bids were received, which was narrowed down to five. No infonnation on the specific proposals
was available.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Howa confinned that the projects
must be located within three states but will connect to a grid that covers six states. However, they are
prioritizing Utah sources so that partner communities receive a direct benefit.

Council Member Hyland asked if the program would only benefit Utahns or residents of other states
as well. Council Member Holton stated that there is a BlucSky Utility program that allows individuals
to vohmtarily participate in the activity, but URC is a citywide approach where cities opt in to a
holistic approach to renewable energy. He believes the program has many issues and would be more
in favor of it if it involved a renewable energy project in the City that produced energy directly for
residents. Mayor Bennion stated that it is a complex issue and indicated that discussion would
continue after Mr. Howa had completed his presentation.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                        2
Mr. Howa reported that to fund the new clean energy sources, the program will automatically enroll
all Rocky Mountain Power customers in participating communities. The proposed additional cost per
customer is $3 to $4 per month. However, Rocky Mountain Power has argued for a rate increase of
up to 10%, and the PSC has not yet determined a fair and equitable rate for the program. All residents
within the City would be automatically enrolled, but can voluntarily opt out of the program within 90
days of adoption. Customers wishing to opt out at a later time will be subject to a termination foe of
between $3 and $20. Low-income households can receive a bill credit of up to $0.77 per bill if they
are enrolled in the RMP Schedule 3 Home Electric Lifeline Plan.

Benefits of joining URC include protecting residents' health, safety, and overall quality of life,
supporting the Cottonwood Heights Sustainability Plan.

In 2019, the Utah Legislature adopted the Community and Renewable Energy Act, which established
the framework for a multi-community clean energy program. Cottonwood Heights committed to
participating in that program that same year (Resolution 2019-66). In 2021, the City joined the URC
through an interlocal agreement (Resolution 2021-30). Contributions are based on population and
energy load, and to date, Cottonwood Heights has contributed a total of approximately $21,000 to the
URC, or approximately 3% of the agency's overall budget. With the exception of noticing costs, the
City will incur no additional program costs if it chooses to continue with the project.

Upon approval of the Program Application by the PSC, Cottonwood Heights will have 90 days to
adopt the program by ordinance. There is no penalty for not adopting the program.

If the City chooses to adopt the program, the process will be as follows:

    •   Cottonwood Heights will be responsible for all costs associated with notifying Rocky
        Mountain ~Power customers in the City of the program.
    •   Rocky Mountain Power will generate notices and notify all affected customers with an initial
        paper notice and a second notice with the customer's bill.
    •   The costs to cover both noticing periods is estimated at approximately $19,000.

Mr. Howa reported that former Mayor Mike Wcichers and fonner City Planner, lan Harris, are the
City's cunent URC Board members, so new appointees are needed to fill those positions. Board
meetings are held on the first Monday of every month and last approximately two hours. The
anticipated time commitment is between five and 10 hours per month.

Mayor Bennion stated that the bill was passed by the Utah State Legislature with a strong majority;
almost 50 of its 75 members voted in support of the measure. When Cottonwood Heights voted in
2021, four members voted in favor of the resolution. More clean energy will benefit the environment,
and the program provides the ability to opt out. She recommended that a community meeting be held
to gauge the community's support for the program.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Howa confinned that the URC
anticipates renewable energy sources to be providing power to the community by 2030. Council
Member Holton stated that they had committee to reach their goal by 2030, not that the energy will

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ __   _ __

                                                        3
directly go to Cottonwood Heights. Mayor Bennion stated that ifresidents choose to participate, their
participation will sustain a program that creates a net-zero energy offset for their personal household's
share of the electric grid. Mr. Howa stated that if the resource provides 300 megawatts of clean
energy and Cottonwood Heights only uses 50 megawatts, for example, it will completely offset the
City's energy consumption.

Council Member Holton stated that he is in favor of renew ables and is grateful that City Hall was
built with sustainability in mind. However, he docs not believe that the URC program is the way to
achieve it. He believes it will ,guarantee that residents will pay more for basic utility services. Many
residents arc upset with the cost of water, and the Council is upset that the City is not in control of
that. He sees this as a voluntary rate increase. It is not a direct power purchase that guarantees
renewable energy in the City's homes. The opt-out period is only 90 days, and he does not believe
most residents know that the program exists.

Cotmcil Member Birrell stated that in the last month and a half, temperatures had been dramatically
higher than people who have lived in Utah all their lives have ever experienced. She emphatically
believes that the City needs to take a stand for the core health needs of Cottonwood Heights and the
extended cmmmmity. Even ifthe power docs not directly feed into Cottonwood Heights, it will make
a difference in the region, and the program represents an opportunity to move the needle toward where
hmnanity needs to go. All scientific evidence shows he£gbtened temperatures and lower air quality.
There is ample time to engage and educate the public, and she believes the Council needs to be careful
not to only look for the negatives. Council Member Holton remarked that the opportunity to
participate in an offset program exists, and he docs not want to force it on the City's residents.

Council Member Hyland agrees that renewable energy and the climate are important. However, she
is concerned about the infonnation provided on the program. The cost is estimated at between $2 and
$7 per month, which equals an increase of between $355,000 and $1.2 million per year that
Cottonwood Heights would be encumbering its citizens with paying. As Council Member Birrell has
pointed out in other meetings, basic services should not be taxed. There is an opt-out, but she believes
it is an illusion of choice. Most people will not opt out, and there will be a penalty for doing so. She
would like the penalty removed. The program also does not have an end date, and no information
was provided on what happens to the fee when the renewables are available in 2030. She is also
concerned about governance because the packet indicates Salt Lake City will have 53% of the vote
and the PSC retains final decision-making authority over the program.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the economics of energy have changed since 2019 due to
artificial intelligence. A recent article in The Washington Post entitled "Why Your Power Bill is
Spiking Faster Than a Nearby Data Center" reports that residential customers are subsidizing data
centers. Amazon has purchased a solar fann. Rocky Mountain Power will be competing with data
centers, which will d1ivc up the anticipated pro6rram costs. She believed the City Council needs to
be very mindful of the financial impact, how the program has changed since conception, and the
program' s governance.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about the opt-out process, as it will be like subscriptions,
so many peop1e do not know they arc burdened with. He is in favor of the opt-in process. He is
passionate about the environment, but he believes the Council has a responsibility to do things in the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        4
right way and not encumber residents with something they have no choice over. Council Member
Holton stated that when the legislation was passed, it was indicated at that time that the economics
would not work if people opt in.

Mayor Bennion stated that it is an important decision for the City. She clarified that the governance
is one vote per City, so that infonnation may need to be updated. Salt Lake City has many low~
income residents and docs not want to increase those residents' power bills, and there is a discussion
on the URC to extend the opt-out period to six months. If the City stays in the program, it will spend
approximately $18,000 with Rocky Mountain Power to ensure that residents are aware of the process.
The City website, mailings, and social media will be utilized to educate residents as well. She hopes
that the City Council is open to feedback from constituents on all sides of the issue and considers
what they are turning off if Cottonwood Heights leaves the program. It would allow the City to he a
leader, but other cities are committed to anchoring the program even if others pull out. Council
Member Hyland stated that Sandy and Draper are not participating in the program.

Council Member Binell recommended that a FlashVote survey be conducted to detennine the
community' s interest in the program. Council Member Hyland stated that the agreement was one
topic per Council member, and only four surveys remain on the contract. She requested that the
survey not be conducted until the PSC makes its final determination and the full details are known.
Council Member Holton remarked that the Council has already talked about conducting surveys on
other fiscal issues, like a potential property tax increase.

Mayor Bennion stated that the City is operating on a very tight budget. City community rooms are
currently not being rented out due to those budget constraints, and a study is required to increase those
fees. She recommended that a community meeting be held at Whitmore Library. Council Member
Holton stated that the community needs to be engaged in other issues like the overall budget and
General Plan, and he does not believe the topic rises to that level. Council Member Birrell stated that
the Council needs to hear from residents.

        3.2     General Plan Presentation and Discussion with City Council and Planning
                Commission. Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that there had been a lot of
progress since the last General Plan update meeting in December 2025. It can be challenging to think
abstractly about the City 20 years in the future, but it is important to create that trajectory. He asked
the Council for their thoughts on the most recent materials.

Council Member Hyland stated that there had been some email discussion on the economic goals and
asked Mr. Spung about next steps after the goals and objectives are provided to Landmark Design.
:t\.-1r. Spung reported that Lead Consultant, Sam Taylor, was present via Zoom. The path forward is
uncertain because the scope of changes has not been determined. Once the goals and objectives are
sol idifi cd, the next step will be public engagement on the goals, ohjecti ves, and new document outline.
After a general consensus is reached, the consultant will draft the document with supporting narratives
and data.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        5
Online public engagement has been found to be very effective. Open houses can be tricky due to
scheduling conflicts, and providing an opportunity for residents to comment online over one to two
months typically generates more feedback than in-person meetings. Mr. Spung recommended both a
webpage with meaningful information that people can respond to and an in-person open house in
addition to engaging the public via the City newsletter and social media. Staff will also need to work
with Landmark Design to adjust the contract. In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, he
clarified that the contract does not have a firm end date, but the allocated funding has been expended.

Council Member Hyland asked for more information on the process. After they arc supplied with the
city's goals and objectives, Landmark Design will then use its technical expertise to create strategies
to support them. Mr. Spung stated that the City Council could determine the most effective process.
It is important to start with high-level goals that the subcommittees have been working on. Next is a
document outline, followed by public engagement to ensure that it is on the 1ight track.

Mayor Bennion stated that she was very pleased with the subcommittees' work. She served for five
years on the House Political Subdivisions Committee, which focuses on city issues like housing,
water, land use, and transportation. The current draft is much updated and talks about infill, reducing
sprawl, and walkability. The Utah Legislature spends $45 million yearly on a statewide active
transportation network, and it is important for City residents to be able to access it.

Planning Commission Chair, Sean Steinman, inquired about specific deliverables. Mr. Spung stated
that the subcommittees did great work and he does not believe much more modification is needed,
but the City Council needed to discuss whether the big ideas and overall vision have been captured.
If everyone agreed, the current draft could be sent to the consultant. The language is not binding; it
is intended to provide direction on each element of the General Plan. Some work toward key actions
and strategies was already completed. In response to a follow-up question from Chair Steinman,
Mr. Spung stated that there ,vas not yet a clear enough scope to renegotiate the contract, but he hoped
that it would be determined at the meeting.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Spung reported that Wasatch Front
Regional Council ("WFRC") Community Development Planner, Christy Dahlberg, was present via
Zoom. Council Member Birrell stated that the WFRC provided $170,000 for the General Plan update
with a City match of $20,000. If those funds had been expended and the process had only started,
another grant may be needed. She also asked for clarity on how the City's adopted Master Plans,
especially the Fort Union Boulevard Master Plan, fit with the new General Plan.

Mr. Spung reported that a lot of work had been put into drafting the plan since the project started in
2019, but it had only been resurrected within the last 12 months. The baseline goals and vision arc
being reevaluated because it is a different Council than in 2019. He believes most of the work that
has been completed is still relevant and can be carried fo1ward, and Staff is willing to take on the
brunt of the work to limit additional costs to the City. Council Member Hyland stated that the other
studies should be referenced in the General Plan. For example, Draper includes other studies as
appendices to their plan.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that the plan had not been worked on over the last 12 months as work
began in August 2025. A core draft came out in 2021 that outlined the public engagement process

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                        6
and recommended joint City Council/Planning Commission Meetings, but she does not believe that
plan was followed. Council Member Hyland pointed out that the series of public engagement
meetings was mentioned in the Staff Report Memo. Although it is relevant to know the history, she
believed the discussion should be about how to move forward. The goal of the currently adopted
General Plan is to keep the City the way it is, and an update is sorely overdue. Council Member
Birrell clarified that she agrees the process needs to move forward, but the City is well behind
schedule, and she does not believe the $170,000 investment was ever discussed. The Council majority
at that time decided to look at form-based code p1ior to moving forward, and the current Council
needs to be clear on its goals so tax dollars are used efficiently, and they do not allow any further
confusion or waste of the very expensive materials that had already been developed for the City.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Ms. Dahlberg reported that approximately
$15,000 is still available, not including some invoices that were put on hold when the project was
paused. Chair Steinman stated that the first draft document was completed by the consultant and then
refined by the subcommittees. He asked if a final draft could be created with the remaining funds.
Mr. Spung stated that a clear direction and plan should be determined first.

Chair Steinman recommended that each chapter be reviewed to dete1mine if any infonnation is
missing or requires modification. He suggested that they begin with the economic development
chapter as the Utah Olympics will provide many opportunities for the City. Council Member Hyland
agreed and indicated that she had concerns about the chapter. Mr. Spung recommended that the
document be viewed with the goal ofbeing comfo1table with presenting the information to the public.

Mr. Spung agreed with Chair Steinman that it is important to address Olympic readiness. A clear
economic identity is also vital. Chair Steinman stated that economic identity has a lot to do with the
transportation component. Cottonwood Heights can either be a billboard that people d1ive by or a
funnel where people actually stop. Multimodal access is necessary to filter and complement
recreation.

Council :N!ember Birrell stated that leading into the 2002 Winter Olympics, the owner of Snowbird
was excited about potential revenue related to the Olympics. However, Little Cottonwood Canyon
did not host any Olympic venues then, and it will not host them in 2034. Snowboarding and freestyle
events will be held at Solitude, and Brighton will not host anything. She believes everyone needs to
be realistic about the economic opportunities. What they found at Snowbird was that no one wanted
to stay in the area because they wanted to be proximal to the Olympics.

Council Member Hyland agreed but indicated that the General Plan can provide economic
opportunities like a LivAway hotel instead of the rumored apartments at the Gravel Pit. They are
similar to shorHerm rentals but less invasive to residents. The General Plan could signal that desire.
People could stay in Cottonwood Heights instead of elsewhere in the Canyon and still be in Park City
within 20 minutes.

Chair Steinman stated that the Town Center and Gravel Pit will be major economic components that
also affect transportation and land use, and they needed to refine what transportation will look like to
ensure that Cottonwood Heights is not just a pass-through city. The plan should not be solely based
on the Olympics, but he believes the Olympics will complement it. People should be able to park at

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                        7
the Town Center, stay at Canyon Centre, use different resources in the City, and have access to
transportation to recreation areas. That will involve collaboration with both the Utah Department of
Transportation ("UDOT") and Utah Transit Authority ("UTA"). There could be a micro-bus system
throughout the City that stops at main hubs for people to take other transportation up the canyons.
They need to consider both identity and whether they want traffic to pass through or furu1el into the
City. It is currently not necessarily appealing to stop in Cottonwood Heights on the way to or from
recreation, whereas Millcreek and Holladay have created very welcoming town centers.

Chair Steinman asked if the Olympics should be a focus, perhaps with watch parties at the Town
Center or by encouraging resources like hotels and transportation. He believes that people who come
for the Olympics will also want to ski, and those people will need alternate venues to ski in. Council
Member Birrell stated that in 2002, they found that visitors did not ski. Mayor Bennion remarked
that it was a different time. The Ikon Pass has increased usage, and there has also been a lot of growth
in the state.

Council Member Hyland stated that the question is really whether Olympic development should be
specifically referenced in the General Plan. Cmmcil Member Holton remarked that the development
should impact the City for the Olympics and beyond. Chair Steinman stated that a lot of Olympic
funding is available that can complement other redevelopment efforts in the City. The General Plan
should define the City's identity and how it captures rcsiaents, tomism, and guests.

Council Member Birrell stated that the Fort Union Boulevard Master Plan is important because it
points out that if you do not slow traffic down, those people will not patronize local businesses. The
City must choose whc_tnec it wants that to be an area where people want to linger or simply a
throughput. That is ·a<;_Knowledgcd in the Fort Union Boulevard Master Plan, but had not been
acknowledged over theJast four years. Chair Steinman stated that the Town Center and Canyon
Centre areas have significant economic d_evelopment potential. Council Member Birrell stated that
she and Mayor Bennion recently met with constituents who live near Canyon Centre, who indicated
that theyJeel very unsafe getting out of their cars to patronize local businesses because the roadways
are designed for regional commuter traffic.

Commissioner Mills remarked that everyone is unified on the need for multimodal transportation and
the economic impact of the Town Center. He believes the only reason the Olympics should be
mentioned in the General Plan is to provide the opportunity to apply for funding. Given the City's
cmTent fiscal situation, it will be difficult to realize aspirational goals for the Town Center. Staff
needs the space to find availablc funding through the State and Federal governments, the Olympic
c01mnittee, etc. Existing Olympic venues in Utah have continued to thrive and become anchors for
the areas they are located in. He agrees with Council Member Birrell that the current Master Plans
need to be more clearly referenced in the General Plan.

Council Member Holton clarified that the funding is only available for designated Olympic venues,
and the City would need a specific strategy to qualify for those monies. A strong case needs to be
made for why Cottonwood Heights should be a venue and other communities should not. Mr. Spung
stated that the Olympics may magnify existing concerns regarding recreation and tourism and could
change how projects are prioritized over the next eight years, but he docs not believe it will have a
substantial impact on what is done.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        8
Commissioner Shelton stated that the question is whether visitors and traffic are an asset to be
encouraged or a liability to be avoided. Some would argue that avoiding those issues will help
preserve the existing way oflife. It is a difficult policy question, but it is the question the economic
development chapter needs to answer.

Mr. Spung stated that trafiic can be both an asset and a detriment. He saw that firsthand in
Taylorsville, where a segment of Redwood Road between 6200 South and Interstate 215 is the most
heavily trafficked surface street in Utah. UDOT condemned businesses to widen it to 12 lanes and
did not provide access to adjacent properties, so it is a dead spot for economic development. In other
areas of that city, traffic is a benefit because that metric businesses consider when deciding on
locations. The City can shape how people move through it, which has an impact on economic
development. That is discussed in the transportation chapter.

Council Member Holton asked how the Transportation Committee answered Commissioner Shelton's
question. Council Member Hyland stated that the committee had only met once. They plam1ed to
meet again after the joint City Council/Planning Commission meeting and incorporate topics
discussed there into the document. She does not believe it is an "either/or" answer. Center Street in
Provo has a speed limit of 15 miles per hour, so people do not drive on it unless they are patronizing
a city business. However, they also have altc,rnate routes around that area. That is a struggle for an
infill city like Cottonwood Heights, but she f!gr_ees that traffic should be slowed around the Town
Center. The City has an investment in enswfogl hat people leave the freeway, enter the Town Center,
and spend money to support Cottonwood Heights. She suggested that the Economic Development
chapter be reviewed in detail.

Economic Development

Goal 1: Enhance Eocal Access to Goods, Services, and Experiences to Capture Sales Tax Revenue.
Ensure CQ!t°Q,nwoocl Heights provides a diverse range of essential goods, services, and recreational
experien -----""that meet the needs of residents and visitors, while capturing sales tax dollars and
mmnmzm c:__akage to neighboring jurisdictions. This includes prioritizing experiential and
entertainrncnt-'based retail, local dining, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both locals
and tourists, sfrengthening the local economy.

Mr. Spung stated that the above goal speaks to the City's brand and what it can do better. Cottonwood
Heights could be viewed as the destination city where people stop on their way in or out of the canyon.
A lot of sales tax dollars are leaking out to other places simply because the City does not offer the
same amenities.

 Council Member Hyland remarked that lodging is missing from the goal. Lodging should be
 encouraged. Her example of the LivAway hotel would reduce the black-market demand for short-
 term rentals while also signaling that the City wants lodging. Many of those hotels are currently
 outside City limits. In response to a question, she clarified that LivAway hotels are nightly stay hotels
 with full kitchens. They are nicer than other extended stay hotels. She asked that the last sentence
 be reworded to read, "This includes prioritizing experiential and entertainment-based retail, local


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ __      _

                                                         9
dining, lodging, and outdoor recreational amenities that attract both locals and tourists, strengthening
the local economy."

Mayor Bem1ion stated that developers will look at demand. Lodging was in the plan for the north
part of the Gravel Pit, but it was removed because they do not believe the market can support another
hotel tight now.

Commissioner Shelton recommended that the goal be reworded to state "Enhance Access to Local
Goods".

Goal 2: Prioritize Economic Development in Strategic Commercial Areas.
Strengthening key commercial districts hy using zoning, land use policy, and design standards to
guide reinvestment, attract desired businesses, and enhance community character.

Commissioner Mills asked if the wording was strong enough. Mr. Spung stated that the chapter
nan-ativc supports and clarifies the goal. A third joint meeting will be needed to review the future
Land Use Map, and this goal will be a key driver. Commissioner Mills stated that the three strategic
areas are the top, middle, and bottom of Fort Union Boulevard. -The bottom will have more big box
type development, the Town Center will have a gathering spot with a local feel, and the top will be
a large economic engine to help improve the City's fiscal situation.

Chair Steinman stated that the web that goes up to Smith's Grocery and down through Bengal
Boulevard into Fort Union Boulevard redefines part of the City._ It should be defined by large,
medium, and small-scale development. That can apply to transportation components as well. Council
Member Hyland stated that Steamboat Springs has a great example of micro-transit.

Mr. Spung stated that the :future Land Use Map functions as a painting of what the City will look like.
The Gravel Pit can be identified as a regional center and the document can define what that means.
When the City's zoning policies are updated, Staff can reverse-engineer the goal to produce that
result.

Goal 3: Support Redevelopment of Strategic Properties to Serve Both Residents and Visitors.
Use land-use policies, zoning tools, and regulatory guidance to encourage the redevelopment of
Lmderutilized areas-such as the Gravel Pit-in ways that support community needs, enhance the
visitor experience, and strengthen long-tenn economic vitality.

Mayor Bennion recommended the goal be reworded to read "enhance the visitor and resident
experience." Commissioner Mills agreed and noted that this often comes up in Planning Commission
discussions. Developers can be asked to do exactly what the City wants. That can sometimes
temporarily mean there is a sidewalk to nowhere, but it is a start. There was pushback from the
developer of the north Gravel Pit project because the Commission asked where people would walk
and bike, what the transition from the main road would look like, etc. It is important to make it clear
that the City wants to partner with developers; it wants them to make money, but the developer needs
to ensure that it works for current residents as well as their target market.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       10
Council Member Hyland remarked that the things that are attractive to residents of Cottonwood
Heights are also attractive to visitors. Anything that is redeveloped in a way to meet both purposes
is a win. She reported that Brian Allen is still trying to secure funding for a visitor center at the base
of the canyon.

Goal 4: Strengthen the City's Role as a Premier Office. Retail, and Residential Community.
Use land-use regulations, zoning tools, and development standards to support high-quality office
environments, vibrant retail areas, and a diverse range of housing options that meet the evolving needs
of residents and the regional workforce.

Mr. Spung stated that the subcommittee discussed the need to highlight office space as a primary land
use moving forward. The Cottonwood Corporate Center is a job center, and it is important for the
City to have a workforce that spends money here. It is also important to have space available for
corporations that want to relocate to Cottonwood Heights.

Mayor Bennion stated that the Legislature has been focused on redeveloping office areas for
residential use. She can see how the area could be refined to support the fourth Key Action, "Refine
housing regulations to strategically allow a range of high-quality, attainable, and workforce-oriented
housing types while maintaining compatibility with existing neighborhoods," and hopes that the
Council will be open to that if the need a rises. Mr. Spung remarked that there has also been talk about
infill in that type of setting. Many office buildings have between five and eight parking stalls per
1,000 square feet of building, which results in a lot of empty parking lots. Infilling them with housing
is an option to retain the land use while providing residential units. People who live there are away
during work hours and vice versa, or they can live and work in the same location.

Council Member Birrell asked if Planning Staff was reviewing suggested Code changes to allow
property owners around the Cottonwood Corporate Center to redevelop with workforce housing.
Mr. Spung stated that they can do so at the Council's direction once the plan is adopted.

Chair Steinman stated that a Development Agreement was recently rewritten to transition an office
structure in Canyon Centre to condominiums. Council Member Bin-ell clmified that they arc luxury
condominiums, not workforce housing. Chair Steinman remarked that multiple housing types are
necessary, and the average home cost in Cottonwood Heights is $800,000. They need to consider
what cm1 be done to create more attainable housing, but attainable is not necessarily affordable.

Council Member Hyland remarked that she likes what the bullet point signals. A developer recently
did a presentation to consider a condominium complex near Market Street Grill, and that is an
example of an area where this type of development can be encouraged. C01mnissioner Shelton stated
that the economic reality is there will not be workforce housing in that area.

Commissioner Mills stated that the City's parking structures need multiple uses. There is a strong
need for parking for skiers, yet Cottonwood Corporate Center's parking is always empty. It is hard
to dictate that for private property owners, the expectation can be set in the General Plan. He believes
hard lessons were learned from the Canyon Racquet Club property.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026         Appro ved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                       11
Goal 5: Supporting a Resilient, Diverse, and Future-Ready Local Economy (sustainability)
The City aims to foster a resilient and diverse local economy through targeted redevelopment,
business support, and efficient use of existing infrastructure. Innovation, workforce development,
energy efficiency, and quality-of-life investments will attract and retain businesses, create jobs, and
support long-term economic stability.

Mr. Spung reported that the group had discussed removing the standalone Sustainability chapter and
embedding those goals elsewhere in the document. Mr. Howa relocated the elements of that chapter
throughout the General Plan, and this goal was mostly related to economic development.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Spung stated that the ways in which the
General Plan would infonn Olympic planning are also r_elated to long-tcnn planning. Short-tenn
rentals will be in demand during that time, so the Col.fil1y may consider a temporary ordinance to
allow them throughout the City. Council Member Holton stated that many things can qualify a City
as a venue, not just hosting a sport or awards ceremony. If the City wanted to provide housing for a
certain country 's athletes, for example, that would.qualify as a venue.

Chair Steinman stated that there is an opportunity here. The 2034 Utah Olympics will be very
different from the 2002 Salt Lake City~Qlympics. The City's cmTent infrastructure allows you to be
up Big Cottonwood Canyon in 15 to 29_m!_l].~tcs, and Park City in 20 minutes. There will be a lot of
activity at Snowbasin Resort, which yQu c=.ii·? reach in 40 to 60 minutes. He believes the lodging
component is a perfect opportunity beca]Jse people want to lodge in an area where they can get
groceries or have drinks. The Economic Development comJJonent ofthe General Plan should support
that goal. The City should position itself for recreation, which complements the Olympics.

Council Member Holton stated that in a meeting with Salt Lake City, they indicated that the six-
month open house for the Salt Lake Temple will be a greater economic engine than the Olympics
because it will generate significantly more visitors. Council Member Binell agreed that there were
other, better opportunities.

Mayor Bennion stated that there is nothing wrong with people getting off the freeway, visiting a
Cottonwood Heights hub, and then getting back on the freeway to their destination. The answer to
Commissioner Shelton's question is not black and white.

Transportation

Council Member Hyland stated that she loaded the adopted plans into ChatGPT and asked it to
generate goals and objectives for the City. The results were then used as a starting point for
discussions at the two Transportation Subcommittee meetings. As Commissioner Shelton pointed
out in the last joint meeting, transportation should help both your residents and your workforce.

At Council Member Birrell's suggestion, the subcommittee had very good discussions about Goal 1,
Objective 2, "Adopt Safe Systems Approach ("SSA") prio1itizing projects and policy that measurably
improve safety." By stating this objective, the City confirms what it already agreed to by adopting
the WFRC's Comprehensive Safety Action Plan ("CSAP"). The subcommittee agreed that strategies
of this chapter should take regional resources like the CSAP and the Utah Trails Network into account.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _   _ _ __   _

                                                       12
Council Member Birrell stated that the City's location and uniqueness must be recognized.
Commuters drive through Cottonwood Heights from Draper and Sandy, as do recreationists heading
to the canyons. The State, UDOT, and WFRC think on a regional scale, not a municipal one, and
Cottonwood Heights needs to ensure that it has a strong presence with those entities and the Central
Wasatch Commission. Civil engineering students from Utah State University came to the City to
advocate for an Intelligent Transportation System ("ITS"), and it is important to use the SSA approach
in redesigning residential roadways to make them undesirable cut-through options. Council Member
Hyland stated that every road in the City cannot be redone, but that can certainly be considered for
future development.

Mayor Bennion remarked that she approves of how the chapter focuses on alternative transportation.
She did not know until recently that Utah is third in the nation for car use, so the focus on other modes
of transportation is a major change. Multiple studies show that active transportation use improves
physical and mental health. She thanked the Transportation Subcommittee for that focus, which really
reflects the community.

Council Member Holton stated that the Recreation Subcommittee focused on verbiage like "strive to"
rather than "shall", but that language was not consistent with the Transportation chapter which uses
more action-oriented words like "prioritize", "adopt", and "reduce". He recommended that the
language be standardized.

Chair Steimnan asked how much time the Transportation Subcommittee spent reviewing the adopted
2023 Transportation Master Plan. Mayor Bennion reported that verbiage was pulled from that plan.

Council Member Hyland remarked that a reference to canyon-related travel was added to the Mission
Statement because it must be acknowledged that people travel through Cottonwood Heights to reach
recreation. It was also important to minimize neighborhood cut-throughs. She does not want to create
a scenario where it is so hard to get through the City that people cut through neighborhoods to get
around what they cannot get through. Tf the consultants recommend that the verbiage be changed,
she will suppmi that. Staff needs wiggle room because things will be very different in 20 years, and
decisions will be naturally constrained by available monies. Mayor Bennion stated that the language
needs to be strong to help shift thinking about car use.

Mr. Spung stated that the General Plan establishes the City's aspirations, but it also includes
implementation steps with short-tenn and long-tenn priorities.       As part of defining the
implementation steps, they can consider which plan goals are most important to begin working on
immediately. Timing and fiscal impacts must be considered because otherwise the plan is not
actionable.

Chair Steinman remarked that the Transportation Master Plan includes both cost and date estimates,
and projects arc listed by improvement type and phase through 2050. He asked if it would be adopted
into the General Plan. Mr. Spung stated that the General Plan is a broader document, whereas the
Transportation Master Plan is very specific and includes detailed cost estimates. The General Plan
will list the general goals and strategies, but can also adopt that plan as a reference or appendix.
Council Member Hyland stated that Draper's general plan actually includes their transportation plan

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       13
as appendix, which draws greater attention to it. It was agreed that the Cottonwood Heights General
Plan should do the same.

Land Use

Commissioner Mills reported that the Land Use Subcommittee spent a lot oftime discussing verbiage.

Goal 1: Targeted, High-Quality Development and Redevelopment.
The City will work toward focusing growth and reinvestment in strategic areas to support community
character, mixed-use development, and overall development quality. Zoning updates and targeted
incentives may be considered to help guide redevelopment and advance economic and placemaking
objectives.

Council Member Hyland stated that Cottonwood Heights is the oldest average-age city in the county.
Baby boomers are between the ages of 61 and 81, with an average age of 71. In 20 years, the average
age will be 91. She asked if the subcommittee had discussed how the City will tum over and what
that will look like. The question arose because there is a house in her dist1ict that has become a drug
house; the parents passed away without leaving a \.Vill, and the estate is in probate. Commissioner
Mills stated that the subcommittee did not discuss it, but the issue has come up for the Planning
Commission. Both apartment complexes on Fort Union Boulevard involve one or more properties in
that category, and there are a number of homes above 2300 East that are in a similar state. That is an
ongoing challenge in the City.

Mr. Spung reported that ilis a nationwide trend that may be exacerbated by the older population in
Cottonwood Heights. Utah has the youngest population in the country, but Cottonwood Heights'
population is one of the oldest in Utah. People do not want to abandon their community, so a strategy
is to build housing within existing neighborhoods that can accommodate different phases oflife. That
includes smaller single-family homes, townhomes, apartments, and condominiums so the population
can age in place. It is a very controversial concept in some areas. Cottonwood Heights primarily has
the same rype of single-family housing. An elderly couple may be living in a 6,00-square-foot house
that is better suited to a young family, but they do not want to sell because there is nowhere else to
go in the City. The market is another factor; a lot of people do not want to move because interest
rates are so high.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the Wall Street Journal recently repmietl that $4.6 trillion of
real estate will be handed down to the next generation within the next 10 years, which will provide
younger families with an opportunity they did not have before. She believes it needs to be on their
radar because of the area and expected turnover.

Mayor Bennion asked if the General Plan addresses Internal Accessory Dwelling Units ("I-ADU"),
which can be a great use of a large home. Commissioner Mills stated that the City's ADU ordinance
is very granular, but it might be good to reference the ordinance in the General Plan. Commissioner
Shelton stated that there is more than one tool in the toolbox, and he does not believe that problem
can be solved with the General Plan.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       14
Council Member Bi1Tell stated that she believes it is important to acknowledge aging in place and
accommodating different phases of life in the Land Use chapter. As written, the goals were very
commercially driven, and gentrification and aging in place were not acknowledged. It was agreed
that the language should be added.

Mayor Bennion reported that she has met with a builder who is constructing homes with full AD Us.
They arc built with sound protection, so even if both homes have a dog, the other residents do not
hear it. She believes it would be wonderful to identify infill areas for those types of developments.
Mr. Spung stated that a lot of people do not think about the fact that an ADU can make a home
attainable. Being able to offset the mortgage hy renting out the ADU can open up home ownership
to people who could not otherwise afford it, or for older family members to age in place. Council
Member Newell stated that he spoke with someone who p!ans to have their caretaker live in their
ADU.

Goal 2: Streamlined, Predictable, and Fair Development Processes.
Cottonwood Heights aims to modernize its development review procedures to promote clarity,
fairness, and efficiency for applicants and residents.

Commissioner Mills stated that the Planning Department has indicated the need for improving the
development review process, and he beli_?l ~§ the City Council will be pleased with the outcome.

Goal 3: Strengthen Neighborhood Character and Land Use Compatibility.
New development will enhance neighborhood character through context-sensitive design, appropriate
transitions, and pedest1ian-friendly site layouts. This approach will ensure infill and redevelopment
contribute positively to the City's unique sense of place.

This goal anticipates developments like the Town Center and recognizes that all development affects
its surroundi11gs.

Goal 4: Expand Connectivity and Access to Community Amenities.
The City- will support and pursue improvements to multimodal connections between homes,
businesses, and recreation areas to strengthen mobility and access. Investments in trails, transit
partnerships, and public amenities will create a more integrated and accessible community.

Commissioner Mills stated that if schools or church properties were to be surplussed, a strategy will
he in place for how to approach those issues and consider how any development fits with surrounding
areas.

 Goal 5: Support a Resilient Diverse, and Vibrant Local Economy.
 Cottonwood Heights aims to strengthen key commercial districts and support the creation of flexible,
 innovative spaces that contribute to business attraction and retention. Economic development
 strategies may be used to support residents, visitors, employees, and long-te1m fiscal sustainability.

 This goal seeks to add more flexibility for development where appropriate.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026      Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                        15
Goal 6: 6.
Embedding Sustainability into Growth and Development Patterns [sustainability].
The City intends to guide its pursuit of sustainability by promoting compact, walkable, and well-
connected development patterns that minimize environmental impacts and reduce reliance on
automobiles. The City' s approach aims to balance redevelopment and housing diversity with the
protection of natural resources and the preservation of Cottonwood Heights' distinctive community
character.

The above goal was moved from the Sustainability chapter.

Commissioner Mills indicated that Staff and the consultants should be able to identify and co1Tect
any conflicts.

Mayor Bennion remarked that fire-wise development should be mentioned in the document. January
2026 has been the dryest January on record. Mr. Spung reported that the City adopted its Wildland
Urban Interface Code and updated the map in 2025.

Recreation

Mr. Spung reported that there had been only minor verbiage changes to this chapter from its last
iteration.

Council Member Hyland stated that the chapter needs to align with the adopted Utah Trail Network,
which has multiple trails through Cottonwood Heights that connect to tl1c Bonneville Shoreline Trail.
Chair Steinman remark~d that the Utah Trail Network Plan should be included in the appendices with
the other adopted plans. Commissioner Mills stated that he hoped it was a queue to Staff to go after
grant opportunities when they atise.

Mr. Spung indicated that Goal 4 was edited to make the distinction between piivatc and public land
and speak to the City's authority to expand the public trail network.

Goal 4: Preserve Open Spaces.
The City will continue to piioritize the protection and stewardship of natural open spaces on public
lands, while supporting conservation efforts on private property, such as the use of conservation or
access easement where appropriate, to preserve ecological health, safeguard public access, and
maintain its mountain-suburban character, all while maintaining private property rights.

 Goal 5 was moved from the Sustainability chapter.

 Available recreation was discussed. Chair Steinman asked if the City was pursuing any funding to
 enhances its parks or trails. Mr. Spung stated that Mountview Park is scheduled for a new Master
 Plan as some of its infrastructure is at or reaching end oflife. Council Member Hyland remarked that
 many parks arc actually in the Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Center Service Area and
 are not actually City parks. Mr. Spung clarified that specific details are discussed in the Parks and
 Trails Master Plan.


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 201 2026     Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                        16
Council Member Birrell stated that Cottonwood Heights is in a unique situation with the Recreation
Center. Many residents within their service area have complained about the amount of property taxes
they pay. She asked ifthere should be an audit to determine if it is sustainable, and if that goal should
be included in the General Plan. Mr. Spung stated that a broad statement could be included indicating
that the City may explore taking on all recreation, but he did not know if the Council would support
funding that effort. Council Member Binell stated that Salt Lake County may have an interest in
partnering with the City.

Mr. Spung reported that he will work with Mr. Taylor to create a public engagement plan and update
the contract.

        3.3     Excuse Planning Commission.

The Planning Commission was excused.

        3.4     City Council Board Committee Assignments Discussion.                 Mayor Gay Lynn
                Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the board and committee assignments. Council Member Holton declined
to serve on the South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District Board, as he believes Council
Member Birrell had already been sworn in. Council Memb er Birrell stated that she was appointed to
that board against her will, and she did not believe a Council member could decline an assignment.
In response to a question from Council Member Holton, City Attorney, Shane Topham, clarified that
the Mayor makes assignments. Council Member Holton stated that they are standing meetings and
members are sworn in to their positions, and he will not serve the City well in that position because
he does not believe it is fair. Mayor Bennion indicated that Council Member Holton has fewer
appointments than his Council colleagues. As it is a committee that affects citizens ' health and
welfare, she will attend one meeting in his place.

        3.5     Discussion of UDOT's Concurrence Request Concerning I emporary Closure of
                the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail Underpass During Construction of UDOT's
                Planned Mobilitv Hub. Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion stated that construction will affect the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail. They do not
know how long it will be closed, b ut UDOT has promised to restore it to its original condition or
better.

Council Member Birrell stated that she attended the meeting where the intem1odal hub project was
discussed. UDOT is being courteous to the City, but they have no choice but to sign off on it.

4.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        4.1     Lunar New Year Celebration - Saturday, February 7 from 10:00 AM to 12:00
                PM at Citv Hall.
        4.2     Cozy Paint Night-Friday, February 20 from 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM at City Hall.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       17
        4.3     The Jazz Ambassadors of the OS Armv Field Band-Thursdav, March 19 from
                7:00 PM to 8:30 PM at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free event, See
                City website for additional information).

Mayor Bennion reported that Youth Council Day on the Hill will be Wednesday, January 21.

5.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION. PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY. THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
        ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
        CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

6.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to "" DJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland~ The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:32 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026   Approved: _ _ __    _

                                                       18
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
AND RENEWAL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING HELD TUESDAY, JANUARY 20. 2026.
AT 6:45 PM IN THE CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL
BOULEYARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT AH

Present:        Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member Ellen
                Birrell, Council Member Suzam1e Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present: City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director, Scott
               Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human Resources Director,
               Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
               Development Director, Jim Spung; Plam1er III, Sheldon Howa; fT Manager, Matf
               Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.0    WELCOME - CEO Jared Gerber.

CEO, Jared Gerber called the CDRA meeting to order at 6:48 p.m.

2.0     ACTION ITEMS

        2.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-01 Electing Officers and Appointing Staff.
                (Bv this Resolution the Board will elect officers and appoint staff for the CDRA due to
                recent changes i11 the Citv 's elected officers).

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-01 Electing Officers and
Appointing Staff. The motion was seconded by Board Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Board
Member Newell-Yes; Board Member Ijolton-Yes; Board Member Bennion-Yes; Board Member
Hyland-Yes; Board Member Birrell-No. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Board.

3.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION. PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
        ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UT AH
        CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

4.0     APPROVAL OF MINUTES
        The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agencv's
        secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board members, who
        then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary. The
        secretary will then circulate a revised draft of the minutes to the Board members, and the
        same 1·eview process will continue until such time as no corrections to the draft minutes are
        received within the three business days review pe,.iod, whereupon that draft of the minutes
        will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes o(the meeting.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026         Approved: _   _ __ _ _

                                                       19
5.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Board Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the CORA Meeting. The motion was
seconded by Board Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Board.

The CORA Meeting adjourned at 6:51 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       20
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY. JANUARY 20, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                        Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                        Newell

Staff Present:          City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                        Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                        Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; lT Manager,
                        Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified
                        Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Newell led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period and reported that several online comments had
also been received.

Casey France stated that she is 12 years old, and she was present to speak about the Utah Renewable
Communities program. Utah is known for its snow; it is even on the license plates. What is Utah
without snow? She wants to stay in Utah because she is having a great experience with the amount
of wildlife and outdoor options, but she has realized that those options are becoming less and less.
An example is the trail across the street from her house, which is now private property so she can no
longer hike there. One of her favorite outdoor activities is snowboarding. If the snow melts, she will
lose that option. Her generation will have to fix the mistakes that have been caused and try to get the
snow back. She would feel much better if she knew her community was trying to make the world a
better place. As Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "Faith is taking the first step even when you don't sec
the whole staircase."

Chester France stated that he lives on Top of the World Drive. He asked the Cotmcil to continue
supporting the Utah Renewable C01m1mnities program. It is nice to have the option to not litter or
continue adding CO2 to the atmosphere. A total of 77 statements were collected from residents who
used the trailhead at Top of the World Drive. The Council approved hiring an attorney, and he wants


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _

                                                       21
them to keep trying. The property owner has been enforcing no trespassing, and the trail is greatly
missed.

Council Member Birrell stated that she appreciated the comments. She and Mayor Bennion are taking
the matter very seriously.

John Adams stated that he is a resident of Cottonwood Heights. He understands that the General Plan
is being updated, and he hopes that the process is as transparent as possible. He would love to sec
the City continue to be a part of the Utah Renewable Communities program. All the ski resorts belong
to the National Ski Arca Association, which cites climate change as the biggest threat to its business
model. It is a predicament because as they try to grow their businesses, they produce more energy
and greenhouse gases. A resort in Aspen retrofitted its snowmobiles to electric and moved to all LED
lightbulbs but determined that over 50% of their emissions were from electricity that was not
generated onsite. They worked for over 10 years to convince their utility provider to switch to clean
energy, and that one change was s1gnifiea11t. Cottonwood Heights has the means to be a leader in
clean energy, and it should take the opportunity to do so.

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library activities. The first Lego Club
meeting was a big success, with over 30 children in attendance. A lot of the parents indicated that
they learned of the event through the City newsletter. Steam Club was scheduled for W cdnesday,
January 21 at 4:00 p.m. Storytime is every Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday at 10:15 a.m. Saturday
Morning Stories is on January 24 at 10: 15 a.m., and Pajama Story Time is Monday, January 26 at
7:00 p.m. The Utah Puppet Theater will perform on Wednesday, January 28 at 11 :00 a.m. The
calendar of events is available on the library website and Cottonwood Heights "Between the
Canyons" newsletter. ··

Daniel Kovak stated that he attended the Work Session. He finds those meetings illustrative as they
provide an understanding of what the City Council members actually value and provide insight into
who they are. He values clean air and the planet, and he believes it is a reasonable idea to ask citizens
what they care about. He loves the Flash Vote surveys. He learned that the surveys arc limited, and
he does not know why. The City has spent money on things he cannot understand, like international
trips instead of finding out the will of the people. He got the impression that a majority of Council
members were not in favor of the proposal and did not even want to know what the people who voted
them in care about. That is happening in a lot of places, and he does not like it. He thinks the City
should spend more money on FlashVote surveys and publish the results so everybody knows what
the people care about. The upcoming Olympics will be very different from 2002, and he does not
know if there will be snow or a breathable area. If they care about families, they should prove it,
because they are already proving that they care about money.

Ethan Millard stated that he lives on Stone Hill Lane and has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights
for nine years. Regarding the Utah Renewable Communities program, Cottonwood Heights is a
conununity that believes in sustainability and protecting the environment. H c knows that those things
have fallen out of favor. However, the world is a wheel, and it will come around again to people
seeing the value in long-term responsible thinking. He believes that it should continue to be a priority
for the City. He has enjoyed being able to participate in the City's well-organized public input
opportunities on planning. Cottonwood Heights has changed a lot since he has lived here, and it will

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       22
change a lot more in part because everyone is interested in their community. The City would do well
to make public input a priority at the beginning of and all the way through the process. That will slow
things down but produce the best possible outcome. There is a lot of outside interest in Cottonwood
Heights, and those interests do not want to hear from the public. They wilt always push for things to
move faster and decisions to be pulled away from the community. He works in the financial industry,
and he has learned that it is a mistake to replace long-term thinking with the pursuit of short-tenn
opportunities or short-tenn fears. The community will be here in 150 years, and the Council should
not allow outside interests to separate its residents from those decisions.

Mikki Harris stated that residents are very invested in their City and ensuring responsible growth.
She does not want to wake up one day to learn that these foundational decisions have been made for
her. She is concerned that there is not enough public input on the General Plan. There was a lot of
input on the Fol1 Union Boulevard Master Plan. She agrees with Mr. Kovac on FlashVote. She
respectfully asked the Council to tap the brakes and allow citizens to be part of decisions that will
affect them and their children.

Dru Tidwell stated that she has lived in Cottonwood Heights for 21 years. Martin Luther King, Jr.
said, "The time is always right to do what is right." He believed moral action should not be delayed.
Every moment is an opportunity to stand up for what is right and what makes a difference. She was
present to advocate for Cottonwood Heights and her fellow residents to support the City's
participation in the Utah Renewable Communities program. She believes it is a privilege to
participate, and the benefits will multiply over time. Her Lmderstanding is that the cost per household
is approximately $4 per month. She realizes that everyone has seen increases in taxes, insurance,
food, housing, and energy prices. However, the return should be weighed. The program will benefit
the City mildly in the short tenn, but provide great benefits for those who follow. Citizens arc
responsible for doing their best to preserve the beauty that has been bestowed upon them. They
observe it daily when they enjoy their view of the Wasatch Mountains and recreationally in the
mountains, desert, and nearby parks. She views it as a balancing act in Utah. There is great access
to geoth(iiillal, solar, and wind resources, and the energy infrastructure should be built to prioritize
those resources. It has been assured that oil, coal, gas, and likely nuclear will be a part of the energy
future. However, those with vision know that renewable energy needs their support. Our planet,
children, grandchildren, and wildlife will thank us. She asked that the City Council join her in
advocating for this crucial community participation. Eighteen communities in Utah support
renewable energy, and a simple Google search will provide a depth of knowledge on the topic.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

Mayor Bennion stated that there was public engagement on the General Plan in 2021. The City
Council has been working on the update since September 2025 and is now ready to re-engage with
the public.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       23
4.0    RECOGNITlON

       4.1     CHPD Promotion- CHPD Chief. Robby Russo.

Police Chief, Robby Russo introduced the newest members of the Cottonwood Heights Police
Department and reported that two officers had been promoted to sergeant. Sergeant Jeff Gainey,
Sergeant Josh Comber, Officer Rebecca Potter, Officer Tyler Davis, and Officer Chaiity Griffith were
present. Officer Nicholas Swallow was unable to attend.

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen swore the police officers in. Photographs were then taken with the
City Council.

Mayor Bennion stated that a citizen contacted her to compliment the Cottonwood Heights Police
Department. Two officers saw her shoveling snow after a stonn and finished shoveling for her. The
City is veiy grateful for its officers.

5.0    ACTION ITEMS

       5.1      Consideration of Resolution 2026-07 Awarding a Retiring Police Officer His
                Badge and Approving His Purchase of a Police Firearm.
                (Sgt. Dan Morzelewski is retiring from CHPD after 32 years of public service,
                including 17 with CHPD. As is customary and as authorized by citv code, by this
                resolution the council will award Sgt. Morzelewski his badge and appl'Ove his
                purchase of his sidearm).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-07 Awarding a Retiring
Police Officer His Badge and Approing His Purchase of a Police Firearm. The motion was seconded
by Coune_il Member Ne\vell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Bin-ell-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Cotmcil Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Ycs; Mayor Bennion-Y cs. The
motion passed unanimously.

        5.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-08 Ratifying Committee Assignments.
                (Bv this resolution tlte council will ratifv the assignments made by the mayor fol'
                liaison coverage of various "outside" and "inside" committees and boards, as
                contemplateil, by the council's internal policies and procedures).

Mayor Bennion reported that City Council members serve on various boards and committees outside
of Cottonwood Heights. The item was discussed in detail during the Work Session.

Council Member Birrell thanked Mayor Bennion for bringing greater transparency to the process.

MOTION: Council Member BitTell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-08 Ratifying Committee
Assignments. The motion was seconded by Cmmci1 Member Hy1and. Vote on Motion: Council



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       24
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member
Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        5.3     Consideration of Resolution 2026-09 Approving a Temporarv Occupancy
                Concurrence Request bv UDOT.
                (UDOT has informed the citv that the underpass from the Big Cottonwood Canyon
                Trail to UDOT's planned mobility hub on the east side of Wasatch Blvd. must he
                temporarily closed during construction ofthe proposed bus-onlv transitway from the
                mobility hub to Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, and requested the city's written
                concurrence that such proiect meets the criteria for application of the temporarv
                occupancv standards under 23 Code of Federal Regulations Section 774.13(d)).
                This resolution will provide that concurrence).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. UDOT will be
working on a mobility hub in the Gravel Pit area. The mobility hub will require that a road be built
either under or over Wasatch Boulevard, and the top of Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail will be
temporarily closed during construction.

Council Member Birrell stated that it ,will be an inconvenience but it is part of the process of getting
the intermodal hub without creating n1.orc congestion near the mouth of Big Cottonwood Canyon.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-09 Approving a
Temporary Occupancy Concurrent Request by UDOT. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. Vote off"Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Ne,yel!-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously. - -

6.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        6.1     Approval of the Minutes for the Citv Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of January 6, 2026.

Mayor Bennion reported that this item would be tabled until the next City Council meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:33 p.rn.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026       Approved: _ _   _ __ _

                                                       25
I hereby certify that the .foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session, Community Development and Renewal Agency,
and City Council Business Meetings held on Tuesday, January 20, 2026.




Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for January 20, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       26
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3. 2026. AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                        Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                                Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland (via Zoom),
                                Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:                   City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                                 Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture,
                                 and Human Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                                 Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                                 Spung; Planner III, Sheldon Howa; Assistant City Engineer, Ben
                                 Nelsen; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0    REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mavor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be led
by Council Member Birrell, followed by the Citizen Comment Period. The United Fire Authority
and Finance Quarterly Reports would be next.

Item 5. 1 was consideration of Resolution 2026-10 Approving an Agreement with Perkins
Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. Assistant Chief Engineer, Ben Nelsen, reported that the
Agreement is for mill and overlay design on Highland D1ive from Bengal Boulevard to the Starbucks
and from Dan's to the La Cresta Drive intersection. ft docs not include the Fort Union Boulevard
intersection. They will also identify any necessary Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA")
improvements within the project area.

Mayor Bennion remarked that it also includes looking at additional shiping for a third lane.
Mr. Nelson confinncd that striping considerations are pmt of the contract. It will not add a full lane
on Highland Drive, as that study is still in process. As part of the agreement, Perkins Engineering
will evaluate the roadway to detennine if it would be feasible to allow the third lane to continue
slightly farther north to maximize the existing road space and mitigate some of the congestion caused
by decreasing from three lanes to two. fn response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion,
Mr. Nelsen confinned that the agreement does not include constmction to add a third lane.

Council Member Bincll stated that as she read it, the contract was based on Phases II and m of the
Highland Drive project. Mr. Nelsen clarified that it is a separate project. The scope of this project
includes road maintenance and considering how far the third lane can be extended with striping
changes. Jt does not include any widening.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        1
Council Member Holton stated that he previously raised a question regarding costs. At the time,
Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, reported that if the maintenance is not complete now, it will be
considerably more expensive to repair at a later time. The Council could make a decision on the
potential third lane once that study is complete. Mr. Nelsen confinned that the grant-funded widening
project would not be funded for four to five years, and by that time, Highland Drive would have
deteriorated to the point where a full rebuild is necessary.

Council Member Birrell referred to the diagrams included in the Meeting Packet and stated that she
was surprised to see it on the agenda, as she believes it is related to the larger project. She and Council
Member Hyland have expressed concerns about Phases II and III of the Highland Drive project.
Instead of considering a third lane, they were interested in looking at ways to use the existing asphalt
to make the roadway safer. She did not understand why the contract was being presented. Mr. Ncl sen
clarified that Highland Drive needs mill and overlay whether or not the trail is constructed. It is a
pavement preservation project similar to the one that was recently completed on Fort Union
Boulevard. The road is milled, and a new layer of asphalt is placed to preserve the life of the existing
pavement. This work is necessary to prevent a full rebuild. Council Member Birrell stated that it is
a perfect example of looking for efficiencies. She believes this would be the time to add islands or
shift lanes, and she did not want the agreement to advance without a shared vision.

Council Member Holton agreed that the road needs improvement and indicated that he is looking
forward to any solutions suggested by the study. However, Mr. Shipp made it very clear that the
cunent agreement does not change anything. It is purely a maintenance issue, and there is not enough
money in the budget to do any other work on the road. City Manager, Jared Gerber, stated that it
would be a longer process because it must be budgeted for in futme years. The road is not being
expanded, only maintained. If the Council wanted to add anything to the road, that would require a
more comprehensive study.

Council Member Birrell stated that the City needs to fib'llre out to more efficiently and effectively
maintain the City's roads. She would not be able to vote in favor of advancing the project without
considering ways to avoid Highland Olive Phases II and III. She was in favor of tabling the item.

Mayor Bennion asked if postponing for two weeks would affect the project. Mr. Nelsen stated that
the agreement is for Perkins to create a set of bid documents so that Highland Drive can be milled
and overlaid in the summer. There are time constraints because it will take several weeks to complete
the design and then several weeks for proposals to come in.

Council Member Hyland asked how the project would overlap with Phases II and III and when that
study will be completed. She hoped to postpone it so that she could better understand the project.
Mr. Nelsen stated that the City does not have funds to add improvements to the project. Phases II
and mare based on a grant that will be funded in four to five years. The Public Works Department
is trying to maintain Highland Drive so it does not fall into disrepair and require a complete rebuild.

Mr. Gerber remarked that in most communities, this type of decision does not come before the City
Council. Regular road maintenance is usually covered under a city's capital projects fund and
approved at the administrative level.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026         Approved: _ _ _   _ __

                                                        2
Council Member Holton stated that if the Council wanted to address potential investments and
improvements for Highland Drive, it was probably worth delaying the project. If the funds or vision
were not in place to be able to install those improvements, the item probably should advance.

Council Member Newe11 expressed concern that waiting to perform the road maintenance will put the
City in a bad position. He believes the issue needs to be addressed.

Mayor Bennion stated that if additional scope cannot be added within two weeks, the project should
advance. She does not want to hold the item for two weeks without cause.

Council Member Birrell stated that it would be a majority decision. She would familiarize herself
with the Public Works Department's capital investment schedule. Her interest is in efficiency and
safety, and she sees safety as an investment rather than an expense. Mr. Gerber clarified that Staff
does not disagree, but the budget is not available to add to the maintenance project. The City barely
has the budget to maintain its roads, but this project was already planned.

Council Member Hyland expressed her appreciation for the discussion. The project scope indicated
that it would detennine if there is enough width for the third lane, so she conflated it as part of the
study that was already approved. If it were truly maintenance, she was in favor of advancing the item.
Mr. Nelsen reported that the City has received a lot of complaints about the efficiency of the
northbound lane, so they were trying to find a way to optimize that transition. If the Council was not
comfortable with that proposal, it could be removed from the scope. There is not enough asphalt on
the north side of the intersection to add a third lane, so any changes would not extend through the
intersection.

Item 5.2 would be consideration of Resolution 2026-11 Ratifying Revised Council Committee
Assignments. The Consent Calendar would be the final agenda item.

3.0     STAFF REPORTS

        3.1     Flash Vote Discussion - Citv Manager. Ja,-ed Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reviewed the results of the Spending Priorities survey. There were 342 participants, 309
of whom were part of the existing 615-member voter pool. An article was included in the February
newsletter encouraging more residents to sign up. A total of33 people found the survey through other
means.

In response to Question 1, the majority ofrespondents knew that the City received less than 50% of
their total property tax bill, but did not realize it was below 15%. Approximately 22% ofrespornlents
knew that it was less than 15%.

Question 2 asked how respondents feel about the level of service the City provides for the average
$586 per home that it receives in property taxes. A total of 68% believe they receive a good value.

Question 3 asked about spending priorities, and respondents were able to choose five priorities.
Roads, sidewalks, trails, and open space all received over 50% of the votes.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                        3
Question 4 asked how the respondent would spend $100 across a list of projects. Repair and repaving
existing streets and adding or repairing sidewalks were identified as priorities, followed by adding
bicycle lanes.

Question 5 was for individual responses, 165 of which were received.

Council Member Birrell stated that she recently met with nine constituents, four of whom had signed
up for FlashVote. She was the only person who had received the survey, and the other three citizens
did not. Mr. Gerber stated that FlashVote has provided their contact infonnation for anyone with that
issue to reach out to them. At least 309 out of 615 people received it and responded. Council Member
Hyland stated that she received the survey, but her husband's survey went into the spam folder on his
Android phone. That may be why some people did not receive a survey. In response to a question
from Council Member Birrell, she clarified that Android phones have a spam filter for text messages.
Mr. Gerber stated that if anyone has issues, they should contact FlashVote so their individual account
can be checked.

Council Member Birrell stated that the only reason the three citizens knew a smvey was open was
that she mentioned it She believes it is a serious issue that FlashVote should explain. Mayor Bennion
suggested mentioning surveys on the website and newsletter.

Council Member Birrell stated that she believes citizen feedback is needed on several matters. Each
Council Member had identified a subject that they wanted to cover, and her selection was
intersections. Because the decision on whether to stay in the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC")
program is time sensitive, she requested that her topic be changed to surveying residents on whether
they want Cottonwood Heights to stay in that program. Council Member Hyland remarked that the
City does not know the parameters of the URC yet because the Public Service Co1mnission has not
approved the program. She requested that the survey be postponed until those parameters are lrnown.
Mayor Bennion agreed and noted that the City will have at least 90 days after the ruling to make a
decision.

The survey schedule was discussed. In response to a question, Council Member Hyland stated that
she would like to postpone the short-term rental survey until Granicus data is available on the number
of unlicensed short-tenn rentals and how much compliance can be expected. Mr. Gerber stated that
he and Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, will meet to discuss the timing
of the General Plan survey.

Mayor Bennion asked how many residents are on the City mailing list. Mr. Gerber rep01ted that it
depends on the topics selected when they sign up.

         3.2     General Plan Update - Communitv and Economic Development Director, Jim
                 Spung.

Mr. Spung reported that all the materials that were created by the subcommittees had been delivered
to Sam Taylor at Landmark Design. The consultant will review the information and return with a



 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         4
new scope and budget to complete the project. The next step will be public engagement. Once a
general consensus is reached, they will then update the draft with supporting images and graphs.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Spung confirmed that the draft was
updated based on feedback from the last meeting, and that version was sent to the consultant. He will
forward the document to her for review. The version created for public engagement will also be
presented to the Council prior to scheduling any public meetings. Council Member Bin-ell stated that
her primary concern is the importance of valuing various generations and providing for aging in place,
which she believes was part of the amended land use mission statement. Mr. Spung confirmed that
the updated mission statement was included in the version forwarded to the consultant.

        3.3     Blue Sky Program Discussion - Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell stated that his goal is to achieve clarity on the Blue Sky and Utah Renewable
Co1mmmities ("URC") programs. From his research, the URC program is mirrored by the Blue Sky
program that already exists through Rocky Mountain Power. He asked why the City would initiate a
program for all residents when they already have the ability to participate without any additional cost
to Cottonwood Heights. He has heard from a lot of residents who want to be part of the program, but
they did not know that the Blue Sky program exists. It has the same parameters, except there is no
cost to the City.

He is also concerned that ifresidents opt out, it may affect those who stay in the program by increasing
their rate. If everyone is in the program, the highest estimated cost per resident is $48 per year. If
50% of residents opt out, that cost increases to $96 annually. lf another 25% opt out, the cost will be
$192 per resident per year. To his understanding, as new renewables come on board, the cost is
calculated by Rocky Mountain Power and added to the Rocky Mountain Power tariff rates paid by
program participants. He does not support subjecting residents to additional costs without being clear
about them. Rather than asking residents to involuntarily take something on that they must voluntarily
opt out of: he believes it would be better to make them aware of the existing program they can opt
into without a concern about escalating rates.

Council Member Newell stated that residents who already have solar panels will have to pay the same
rate unless they opt out. He understands that residents will be notified, but he questioned how many
people would read their bills to find that out. He believes it would put both the City and residents in
a precarious situation. He is also concerned about the additional renewable energies that are being
proposed. For example, Rocky Mountain Power customers will pay for the nuclear plant planned for
northern Utah. He wants residents to know about the Blue-Sky program in addition to the URC
program, and he docs not want to be responsible for putting them into one program when another is
available to them right now via opt-in. He will likely opt in because he agrees with the program goals,
but he docs not want to put that burden on all residents without complete clarity on how the program.

Mayor Bennion thanked Council Member Newell for the discussion and noted that everyone on the
City Council wants to review all positive and negative aspects of each option. She welcomed URC
representative, Emily Quinton, to the discussion. Ms. Quinton is the Smmnit County Sustainability
Director. Summit Cotmty is part of the URC, along with Cottonwood Heights and 17 other


Cottonwood Heights City Council M eeting M inutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         5
communities. She has served as the URC Board Secretaiy and been involved in the process since its
inception.

URC is a coalition of 19 communities working to develop the program in paitnership with Rocky
Mountain Power. Under the proposed program, participating homes and businesses would have a
new option for where their energy comes from. The clean energy in the program is proposed to come
from both existing clean energy resources and new utility-scale projects built to serve URC customers.
The URC has the potential to be transfonnativc in the development of significant clean energy
resources and was made possible by the Utah Community Renewable Energy Act passed in 2019.
That legislation and subsequently adopted rules defined the program as one where paiticipants are
automatically enrolled with the option to opt out. Ms. Quinton remarked that Cottonwood Heights is
not the first community to express concerns about that aspect of the program.

The URC prograin will create ai1 additional choice for clea11 energy. They understand that not all 19
communities will remain in the program, but those 19 communities represent approximately 25% of
Rocky Mountain Power' s electricity sales in Utah.

Ms. Quinton provided an overview of the program.

    •   Upon program launch, customers in participating communities:
            o Remain Rocky Mountain Power customers receiving reliable power.
            o Will be automatically enrolled in the URC prograin with the choice to opt out. As
                proposed, there will be no cost to opt out initially. After that, there will be a fee to
                tem1inate participation.
    •   The program cost is anticipated to be less than $4 per month for the average household and
        will be added to the customer' s bill.
    •   The follow additional components were proposed:
            o Qualifying low-income customers will receive a monthly bill credit to offset the
                additional cost to pmiicipate. If they choose to leave the program, the tennination fee
                will be waived.
            o Rocky Mountain Power will send two notices to each customer to alert them of the
                program hefore a charge begins. The notices must he separate from the monthly bill.
            o Additional education and outreach to be provided by the URC Communications and
                Low-Income Plan Committees.

After the Community Renewable Energy Act was passed in 2019, communities becaine eligible to
participate in the program by adopting a renewable energy goal. That requirement had since been
removed from the legislation. Nineteen communities signed a Governance Agreement in 2021. A
Utility Agreement was also drafted outlining the roles and responsibilities that will take effect upon
program approval and launch. The negotiation process between URC and Rocky Mountain Power
was lengthy. URC originally expected to piggyback off of PaciCorp's systemwide solicitation for
renewable resources, but that was cancelled in 2024, and a new solicitation had to be developed. The
next step is program approval, which is expected at any time, followed by adoption of the program
by participating communities within 90 days of approval.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                        6
The URC filed a draft ordinance with the Public Service Cmmnission as part of the program
application, and they are cutTently working with participating c01mnunities to adapt the ordinance to
each municipality. Program members will be responsible for reimbursing Rocky Mountain Power
for noticing costs. Ms. Quinton reported that URC officers and other board members are available to
speak with the City Council, and additional information is avaiiable on their website.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Ms. Quinton confinned that the Board
is in place. Most of the tmnover was from council members who did not run for reelection and
communities choosing to change the participating council member each year. Council Member
Newell asked why a household would choose to participate in an involuntary program for which the
cost is uncertain. Ms. Quinton clarified that the cost cannot be determined until the Public Service
Commission approves the program. Their order will specify the initial rate, so that information will
be provided at the start of the 90-day adoption window.

Regarding how URC compares to existing renewable energy options, it is anticipated to cost
approximately 50% less per unit of energy than the Blue Sky program. The Blue-Sky program
provides grants for community projects like the solar panels on the roof of the Cottonwood Heights
City Hall. Summit County also benefited from the program and intends to continue to support it while
pushing for the larger, utility-scale change that URC has the potential for. Rocky Mountain Power
also has the Utah Subscriber Solar program, which had limited enrollment and is not currently open
for subsctiptions. That program built one solar plant but has no expansion plans. Residents can also
install their own rooftop solar systems. Depending on their situation, homeowners and businesses
have those different options available to them. Summit County's interest in URC is based on its
potential to create community-scale renewable energy.

Council Member Newell pointed out that 60% of the cost burden will be placed on businesses.
Cottonwood Heights does not have much commerce, and he was concerned that those costs would be
borne by residents. Ms. Quinton rep01ted that there will be administration and startup costs, but the
primary expenses will be in creating the new renewable energy facilities. Those costs will be
distributed across customers by rate class and on a per-kilowatt-hour basis, not by municipality. To
avoid the worst-case scenario of mass opt-outs, they plan to bring new renewable energy sources
online incrementally. They are negotiating contracts with four potential providers and intend to start
with one resource. That will not be enough to meet the program's total goal, but it will keep the rate
as low as possible so the program can stabilize during the initial opt-out period. This should prevent
any rate shock.

Mayor Bennion stated that she has heard that the program is flexible, and URC's goal is to keep the
program cost between $3 and $4. To do so, they may choose not to stati a new project until the
program can support it without increasing cost. Salt Lake City has a lot of low-income residents who
might not be in the low-income program. They do not want it to be an expense for those residents.
However, there are enviromnental costs. If the airshed can be improved through this program, it will
decrease health and other costs that cannot be qLtantified.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about the Lmknown issues on top of the many existing
issues that Cottonwood Heights needs to solve. All residents would need to be made aware of the
program. They count on the City to educate them. Cottonwood Heights has a poverty rate of over

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Februory 3, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                        7
7%, and those residents must be considered as well. He appreciated the clarity but was unsure about
requiring people to join a program when another program with the same parameters is already
available if they choose to participate in it.

Council Member Binell stated that Utah Renewable Communities is different from Blue Sky because
it is transformative and can bring about the kind of projects that Rocky Mountain Power has been
unwilling or unable to do over the last 10 years at half the cost of the Blue Sky program. The average
household consumes 1,770 kilowatt-hours of electricity per month, so Blue Sky would cost twice as
much. rt would also have relatively little effect because the percentage of the population that
pm1icipates in Blue Sky is likely very minimal. This transformative opportunity is something that
she would like to see nudged along. Cottonwood Heights Resolution 2019-03 passed "a plan to
pursue a goal of achieving 100% renewable electricity supply for the City operation by 2022 and
within the entire City by 2032." Additionally, Cottonwood Heights Resolution 2021-43 adopted an
interlocal agreement in conjunction with Millcreek and Holladay that cites "sustainability goals and
suggestive practices, including energy use, is something that we arc going to focus on." There have
been amazing stiides made by the City, and she advocated for continuing the momentum. Fifty
percent of the energy produced worldwide is from solar. The worst-case scenario is that energy could
get more expensive, but going solar opens the door to seeing it be less expensive because that is what
is happening around the world. Nuclem· is still 15 years away, and the state needs renewables, which
the URC can advance.

Council Member Newell asked how home-based businesses would be rated. Ms. Quinton stated that
it will be based on their Rocky Mountain Power rate schedule, and she was unsure if home-based
businesses are on business or residential rates. She will follow up with that infonnation.

Council Member Hyland stated that she understands the URC wants to keep the cost to S3 to $4 per
month. At its December meeting, the Public Service Commission argued the details of the proposed
l 0% cap. To her understanding, the charge to customers will reset yearly. It could start at $3 to $4
per year, but the more people who opt out, the higher the cost to those who stay in the program. She
recently read an article about how Virginia committed $10 billion for wind power, but now their
taxpayers are on the hook for $20 billion due to extensive unanticipated program costs. There also
appears to be no termination opportunity for the co1mnunity if the costs become too burdensome for
parti cipating citizcns.

Ms. Quinton stated that an annual rate adjustment had been proposed. To her understanding, it is
different from a reset and will only be a very small adjustment to account for things like increased
administrative costs. She will research the matter further and follow up with Council Member
Hyland. Regarding termination, her understanding is that the no-cost tennination period will begin
60 days before customer billing begins and extend an additional 180 days. After that point, customers
can still opt out at any time, subj cct to a proposed termination fee. She does not believe the ordinance
contemplates cities leaving the program, but she will verify that with the URC attorney.

Council Member Hyland stated that she spoke with a council member from another city who indicated
that at least 20% of customers are expected to opt out. Her concern is that if a lot of citizens opt out,
it creates a burden for the remaining citizens if the City cannot exit the program. The City Council is
committed to renewables, clean air, and the planet. [tis not a matter of"if' but "how", and the debate

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _

                                                        8
is whether URC is the best plan. Blue Sky ctmently has a higher cost per kilowatt hour, but it has a
predictable cost for participation. The costs will not reset or be determined by how many people opt
out.

The Council is concerned about opting everyone in involuntarily as well as the unknown costs.
Listening to the Public Service Commission meeting did not assuage Council Member Hyland's fear
that the costs could be much higher than anticipated. Data centers and other business demands mean
there will be a lot of competition for existing energy. She hopes that means more people will consider
renewables, but it might be to the City's detriment. She also does not like that the ordinance docs not
include a termination clause for the City.

Mr. Gerber asked how new growth and ownership changes would be handled. Ms. Quinton stated
that the only time there would not be a notice and tcnnination period would be if the person was in
the program in another city prior to moving to Cottonwood Heights. If someone moves from a non-
participating community, it triggers the noticing and termination period.

Ms. Quinton will forward the draft ordinance for review. She will also confinn whether an offroad
will be available for communities post-ordinance, the scale of annual rate adjustments, and how
home-based businesses are billed.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Ms. Quinton confirmed that the estimated cost
based on the goal URC program pricing is 50% of the cost of Blue Sky. It will also create new
renewable energy sources for the state. It is the only planned resource solicitation through 2030.

Mayor Bennion stated that she supports the program for those reasons. She served in the legislature
for five years and understands the impact of the bill passing with a two-thirds majority. She then read
from Resolution 2019-66, which restated Cottonwood Heights' sustainable energy policy.
Cottonwood Heights has already given $21,000 to the program, and the $18,000 additional
commitment is probably less than the City's Arbor Day program. What she hears in natural resources
meetings at the State Capitol and summits about the Great Salt Lake is that the current winter is not
an anomaly; it is the future. Environmental sciences students at the University of Utah arc required
to have counseling available because the future is dire. This is why City leaders signed the resolution
and joined the URC in 2019, and she believes it is vital that Cottonwood Heights stay involved. She
is happy that residents can opt out, and the City can make that fact very clear, but it is important to
take the opporhmity to create more clean energy for the grid.

        3.4     URC Discussion -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

This discussion occuITed concuITently with Item 2.3.

        3.5     Budget and Citizen Committee Update - Citv Manager. Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that the Council decided to create a Citizens Budget Committee at the recent
Budget Retreat. Because the budget planning process had already begun, applications were only
accepted for one week. One member wi11 be selected from each district, with three at-large members.
He had reviewed the applications and identified eight to nine strong candidates with budget

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026      Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                        9
experience. Mr. Gerber asked for the Council's direction on next steps. He could recommend
members or there could be an interview process, but Staff hoped to hold an educational meetings the
following week.

Mr. Gerber provided a quick overview of the applicants' backgrounds.

District 1 applicants were Mike Shelton and B1ian Nordberg. Mr. Shelton is a member ofthe Planning
Commission and a former City Council Member. Mr. Nordberg has 25 years of experience in data
warehousing and analytics.

Council Member Birrell stated that she believes the City has an amazing community, and she is
interested in allowing people who have an interest in being more involved to do so. She is very
appreciative of the people who continue to serve year after year, but she would like others to have the
opportunity to serve. She has met Mr. Nordberg and knows his background, and she would like the
City to give him serious consideration.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Gerber clarified that a resolution had not yet
been established for this committee. Candidates are appointed or apply through the website and are
typically appointed by the City Manager after interviewing them and bringing a recommendation to
the City Council. It would be helpful to have the members in place prior to the educational meeting.

Mr. Gerber reviewed the applications based on the following qualifying crite1ia:

        Must be a resident of Cottonwood Heights; Have a basic unde\standing of municipal
        budgeting and finances (revenue sources, expenditures, service requirements, trends, etc.);
        Have a willingness to act in an advisory capacity, to review and comment on the budget as
        well as make suggestions to be considered by the City Council; Have a commitment to attend
        regular weekly meetings (during the work day) through February and make the time
        commitment necessary to fully understand the budget; Possess the ability to collaborate with
        the committee, possibly putting aside personal or special interests, for the betterment of the
        city and represent the needs of the community as a whole; Be willing to consider past budgets
        for educational purposes, but able to focus on solutions for future years rather than past actions
        that cannot be changed.

Mr. Gerber stated that Council Member Holton indicated he would like to put Mike Shelton forward
for the distiict, as he has the background and experience on the City Council. Council Member Bin-ell
stated that Mr. Shelton already serves on the Planning Commission and the General Plan Update Land
Use Subcommittee. Mayor Bennion pointed out that the City Council had agreed that each Council
Member would approve their district's appointee. Mr. Gerber remarked that other candidates could
be at-large members.

Council Member Hyland stated that she removed eight applicants for District 2 because they did not
have budget experience. The candidates she is interested in interviewing are Jonathan Owens and
Eli:t:abeth Benson.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       10
Mr. Gerber reported that Mr. Owens is a senior financial analyst for the Utah Transit Authority
("UTA 0 ) and has also worked with other agencies in a budget capacity. _____ worked at the
City for four years as a permit technician and has a marketing background. Ms. Benson has been a
business executive for 25 years with expertise in continuous improvement, operations, change
management, merger and acquisitions, budget fidelity, and project leadership. Lynn Kraus is an
infonnation technology professional with experience in developing and maintaining software in
multiple industries, ptimmily healthcare.

Council Member Birrell remarked that Ms. Kraus has studied the budget since the City's
incorporation, and her husband is a certified public accountant. Council Member Hyland stated that
she is on the list to be interviewed for an at-large position. However, for her district, she is only
interested in the two referenced candidates.

Mr. Gerber continued reviewing the applicants for Distiict 2. Brad Buswell has experience in
engineering and wastewater. He is also a member of the Parks, Trails, and Open Space Conunittee.
Council Member Birrell added that he is a project manager, so he has budget experience. Steven
Jones is a senior project manager with 25 years of experience in software development, sales, and
management.

Randy Prazen was a candidate for the District 3 City Council seat in the last election. He bas worked
as a call center director of operations and in retail management. Eva Chan has been heavily involved
since moving to the City in 2025 and has a background in finance and risk management. Garry Barnes
serves on the Planning Commission and has a background in finance. Tyler Carruth is a finance
manager at Republic Services and has worked as an accountant for several years. Lisa Fluty is a real
estate agent and was previously a pharmacist.

District 4 candidates include Dcm1is Magaro, who was present at the meeting. Mr. Magaro stated
that he might have an issue with the commitment due to his wife' s upcoming surgery. He would like
to be a part of the committee because he believes it is important for citizens to be involved in the
budget process, but he may not be able to attend every meeting.

Mr. Gerber continued reviewing the applicants for District 4. Robert Warther has experience as a
project and operations director for environmental and nuclear projects, as well as a Bachelor of
Science degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell University. Kayla Lengyel was on the Town
Center Envisioning Committee and is a financial manager for the Department of Health and Human
Services. Eric K.raan has been involved in various community initiatives and is a local small business
owner with a Master of Business Administration degree. W csley York is an operations support
manager for Maverik and has done a lot of project management. He is also Six Sigma certified.
Christopher Pitcher is a sales account exeeutive. Mayor Bennion stated that she met with Mr. Pitcher
during her office hours the previous week. Gerry Fede is a financial operations manager and
consultant who was previously a chief financial officer.

In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, City Attomey, Shane Topham, reported that decisions
cam1ot be made in Work Sessions, but the Council could rcconunend candidates for Mr. Gcber to
interview. Mr. Gerber added that although they will not be officially appointed, the candidates can
attend the educational meeting the following week. If the Council recommended more than seven

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       11
people, they could all attend the first meeting prior to a final decision being made. Mr. Topham
cautioned that their status should be made clear to each candidate prior to the meeting.

In response to a qL1estion raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber stated that the Council had
discussed each Council Member making a recommendation for a representative from their district.
Council Member Birrell stated that she believed the word "appoint" was used. Mr. Gerber clarified
that the nominees will be approved by the City Council as a whole on February 17 and will include
three at~large members in addition to one from each district who is recommended or appointed by
that district's Council member.

Council Member Holton had indicated that he would like to advance Mike Shelton for District 1.
Mayor Bennion joined Council Member Birrell in recommending B1ian Nordberg for his community
involvement. Mr. Nordberg was one of the 17 people who volunteered to sit on the Council when
Doug Petersen passed away and has been trying to be involved in the City for some time.

For District 2, Council Member Hyland stated that both applicants are very strong candidates. She
advanced Jonathan Owens as her first choice, with Elizabeth Benson second.

For District 3, Council Member Newell recommended Tyler Carruth. Eva Chan is also a strong
candidate, but she is serving on another conunittee, and he would like to bring new voices into the
conversation.

For District 4, Council Member Birrell stated that Eric Kraan would be her first choice, followed by
Gerry Fede.

Mayor Bennion agreed with Council Member Newell that more voices should be brought into the
process and noted that Mr. Shelton was involved with the last tax increase as a Council Member. Her
preference for District 1 would be Mr. Norberg. As a total of eight candidates had been selected, she
recommended that seven be appointed and one serve as an altemate. The Council Members agreed.
Mayor Bennion suggested that Mr. Shelton be the alternate due to his vast involvement in the City,
with Lynn Kraus as a potential second alternate.

Mr. Topham asked about the interview process. Mr. Gerber stated that he would try to speak with
each candidate within the week to ensure that they understand the commitment and what is expected
of them prior to making a final decision. Mayor Bennion remarked that an email should he sent
thanking everyone who applied.

        3.6     Old Mill Discussion - Community and Eco11omic Development Director, Jim
                Spung.

Mr. Spungbriefed the City Council on the status of the Old Mill property. The Planning Commission
received an application to demolish the Historic Strncture, and its first public hearing on January 1
initiated the one-year review period required by City Code. Following issuance of a Conditional Use
Pennit, Demolition of a historic structure requires a Certificate of Appropriateness from the City
Council. The Plmming Commission's review must take at least one year, after which the applicant


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                       12
can apply for the Certificate of Appropriateness. The Council will then have 90 days to make a
decision on that item.

Mr. Spung reported that the following studies were available on the structure:

    •   2022 Reavely Engineering Strnctural Condition Assessment;
    •   2022 Gilson Engineering Structural Assessment of the Feasibility of Restoration;
    •   2024 Gilson Engineering Report on Cost to Mitigate; and
    •   In 2024, Cottonwood Heights hired Calder Richards to review the above studies. Their
        findings supported the initial studies.

    Staff submitted the Planning Commission's questions to the applicant and was also working
    internally to answer questions. Mr. Spung could return periodically with reports on the Planning
    Commission's progress, as well as to respond to any questions or concerns raised by the Council.

    Council Member Birrell stated that her understanding is the one-year period is for public
    comment. Mr. Spung clarified that the application must be pending before the Planning
    Commission for at least one year prior to making a decision. The City has technically fulfilled
    the public hearing requirement, but Staff recommended that the Plam1ing Commission continue
    to engage the public throughout the year. Several residents attended the meeting in January to
    express concern about losing a Historic Structure. Mr. Topham added that all Planning
    Commission meetings include a public comment period, and residents can comment on the Old
    Mill during that time. Public hearings have notice and other requirements, so that term is not used
    unless it is in fact a public hearing.

    Mr. Spung reported that the review criteria will be different for the Planning Commission and
    City Council. The Staff Report includes a link to Cottonwood Heights City Code§ 15.15 outlining
    the criteria the Council will review for the Certificate of Appropriateness.

    Mr. Gerber stated that the next step is to hire an outside engineer to evaluate the property. Some
    citizens have offered to assess the structure, but in order to obtain an Ltnbiased opinion, he
    recommended that the City issue a Request for Proposals ("RFP"). The third-party engineer can
    then assess the site.

    In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Spung reported that the applicant's studies
    were included in the Planning Commission meeting packet. The Calder Richards study will be
    included in the March 4 Planning Commission packet. The Planning Commission requested that
    the item be placed on all agendas moving forward so they can be briefed on any updates or
    additional infonnation.

    Mr. Topham stated that the outside engineer would be qualified and unbiased, but the RFP process
    may not be necessary. Per the City's procurement policy, consultants can be hired based on their
    qualifications without being the lowest bidder.

    Council Member Hyland was in favor of the City taking this step. Although the engineering
    reports arc technically independent, there is skepticism about their validity because of who paid

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026      Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       13
      for them. The City's engineering assessment may corroborate or challenge those studies.

      Mayor Bennion stated that she has met with the property owner and shared the information she
      learned with the appropriate parties. Her goal is to find peace with the decision, whatever that
      may be, because the City has done a thorough assessment. Mr. Topham stated that he has lived
      with the Old Mill for a long time, and he may never be at peace if it is demolished. However,
      they can be at peace with the process and the knowledge that they have done all that can be done.

4.0      REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

         4.1     Asian Arts and Culture Association Lobbv Exhibit - Monday, Januarv 8 to
                 Monday Februarv 17, 2026.
         4.2     Lunar New Y car Celebration - Saturday, February 7 from 10:00 AM to 12:00
                 PM at City Hall.
         4.3     Senior Bingo at City Hall - Wednesday, February 18, 2026, at 1:30 p.m. at City
                 Hall.
         4.4     Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit - Monday, February 20 to
                 Monday, March 18, 2026.
         4.5     The Jazz Ambassadors of the US Army Field Band-Thursday, March 19 from
                 7:00 PM to 8:30 PM at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free event, Sec
                 City website for additional information).

5.0      POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
         LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
         COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
         ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
         CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

6.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:00 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026       Approved: _   _   _   _   _

                                                       14
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2026. AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland (via Zoom), Council Member
                         Shawn Newell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                         Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                         Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Planner III,
                         Sheldon Howa; Assistant City Engineer, Ben
1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Birrcll lcd the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library activities. Lego Club will be on
February 4 at 4:00 p.m. Family preschool story times are Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at
10: 15 a.m. Art Explorers will be on February 7 at l 0:30 a.m. The monthly teen origami "take and
make" is puffy hearts and will be available beginning February 9. The Red Cross blood drive will be
on February 11 from 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Utah Puppet Theater will perform on February 13 at
11:00 a.m. The adult do-it-yourself valentine craft activity will be on February 13 and 14. The
activity calendar is available on the Salt Lake County Public Library website and in the Between the
Canyons newsletter.

Chester Franz spoke in support of the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC") program. When he
was three, his family moved to Saudi Arabia, where there was no trash removal. They just threw it
over the fence. The only way to opt out of trash removal in Utah is to demolish your house. He
supports URC because external electricity costs are hidden social costs not reflected in the market
price. For non-renewable energy, the hidden costs are mostly related to public health and climate
change. An example of an external cost is that from 1999 to 2020, there were 460,000 premature
deaths in the United States due to coal power generation. Utah electricity is 45% coal and 33% natural
gas. The external cost of coal in Salt Lake County is approximately $0. l O per kilowatt hour, and the
external cost of natural gas is $0.35 per kilowatt hour. For the average household in Utah, the true
external costs to society from those energy sources are about $28 per month. For the average
homeowner to offset their electricity use through Rocky Mountain Power's Blue-Sky program, it

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       15
would cost an additional $ 15.60 per month, but it would only cost $3 to be part ofURC. He asked
that the City Council give citizens that option. By staying with URC, green energy will be added to
the regional grid, reducing the City's reliance on coal and natural gas.

Afarshall Stevens stated that he recently heard about the URC program. It makes no sense to go
backwards or not try to move forward with renewable energy. The last time he was in China, he
visited a large river basi n that used to be heavily polluted by coal plants. Those plants were replaced
with windmills, and the area is now clean and clear. He does not understand why communities would
not promote moving forward and incentivizing renewabl e energy. You can see the pollution when
you drive down into the Salt Lake Valley. He loves Cottonwood Heights and believes it should be
an example to other cities in promoting renewable energy. His degree is in geology. When he was
in school, the professor would make everyone hold a piece of coal. When they asked to wash their
hands, he would tell them to lick it off instead. They were fine putting it in the air and drinking water,
so there was no difference. Back then, it was necessary to use coal, but that is no longer trne. The
City should promote moving more and more into renewables. It will not hurt to have cleaner air, and
it will help everyone be healthier.

Matt Parsons stated that he has lived in Cottonwood Heights for almost 20 years and raised two
children in the City. He is an emergency physician in the community. He believes that improving
air quality is one of the area's biggest issues. Elechicity is generated primalily through coal, and
Cottonwood Heights, using renewable energy, is a component of the solution. Since there is not a
single solution to improve air quality and the local environment, it is important to take small steps for
change. The Cottonwood Heights community can be leaders in the Salt Lake Valley toward positive
change, and endorsing change will set an example for our children, who will be the real benefactors
of change. His daughter is now an environmental policy major, and he believes renewable cner6ry is
really important for the next generation. Roughly $3 per month is a small price to pay individually
to improve the community. He asked that the City Council support the URC initiative, hoth for the
current generation and the next.

Dave Schonick stated that we should do anything we can to improve air quality and commw1hy health.
He has lived in Cottonwood Heights for almost 30 years and seen many changes in that time, most of
them good. Climate change is not a hoax. He works at Snowbird, and coming down the canyon, you
sec a blanket of pollution across the Valley that you know you will be breathing. Anything that can
be done to improve air quality and keep energy costs down should be done. For $3 more, he is in.
He asked the City Council to please consider doing the right thing. A lot of things are going on in
the country that show that people are not doing the right thing, and this is the right thing to do.

Dennis McGaro stated that he has lived in Cottonwood Heights for over 40 years. He requested that
the City Council please stay in URC. His wife and children have asthma, and a few weeks ago, the
air quality was so bad that they could not go outside. He is pre-CO PD, so it affects him too. 111ree
dollars is nothing, and the cost to the City is also a small amount ofmoney for cleaner air. Cottonwood
Heights should set an example and do the right thing.

Melissa Fields spoke in support of Cottonwood Heights staying in the URC program. In 2019, when
the previous City Council voted unanimously to become part of the program, she was very proud of
the City choosing to be on the forefront of protecting our air and water. That is a big thing, not only

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting M inutes for February 3, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        16
for the people who live here now but for our children and those who come after. The energy demands
that will be placed on Utah over the next five years will be huge, and she believes this is a great
opportunity for Rocky Mountain Power to diversity to meet those demands. It is also about the
promise the Council made in 2019. Even though political winds shift, it is important to maintain the
promise that was made to the people of Cottonwood Heights five years ago.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that seven emailed comments were also received and entered
in the record.

4.0       REPORTS

          4.1    Unified Fire Authority Quarterly Report -Assistant Chief. Rilev Pilgrim.

United Fire Autho1ity ("UFA") Assistant Chief, Riley Pilgrim, presented the Quarter 4 Report for the
period of October 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025.

      •   There were 506 total incidents, 191 or 38% of which were emergent. Emergent calls are
          typically significant health emergencies, fires, car accidents, or other incidents with a high
          potential for injury or damage.
              o October incidents: 180
              o November incidents: 173
              o December incidents: 153
              o Total 2025 incidents: 2,149, a slight decrease from 2,173 in 2024

      •   The most common call types were:
             o Fire
                • Other: 3
                • Vehicle fires: 2
                • Structure fires: 2
                • Vegetation fire: 1
                • Outside rnbbish fire: 1
             o EMS
                ■   Short fall: 38
                ■   Sick person: 34
                • Motor vehicle crash: 30
                • Psychiatric problem: 25
                11  Head injury: 25
             o Other calls
                • Public service assistance: 26
                • False alann or false call: 20
                • Unintentional detector: 17
                ■   Flammable spills and leaks: 7
                • Detector malfunction: 7


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       17
   •    Cottonwood heights to approximately 93% of City calls, with Station 110 responding to
        54.4% and Station 116 responding to 37.6%. Midvale and Holladay responded to the bulk of
        remaining calls.
   •    One ambulance is located at Station 110 in Cottonwood Heights, with others strategically
        placed throughout the Valley. The City ambulance responded to 83.2% of calls. Other calls
        went to either Midvale, Holladay, or Sandy based on proximity to the call.
   •    Emergency response time averaged 05:12 in the 50th percentile and 08:14 in the 90th
        percentile.

Chief Pilgrim reported that UFA will be presenting the Standards of Cover at the next City Council
Meeting, which will review national standards and options to bring the City closer to those goals.

Mayor Bennion stated that she learned a lot at UFA Commissioner trainer earlier in the day.

        4.2     Finance Quarterly Report - Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reported that the report was reviewed at the City Council Retreat, but
sales tax and other data had been updated since that time.

Property taxes:

   •    The average increase in prope1ty tax revenue is $51,000 per year.
   •    As home values increase, the property tax rate decreases.
   •    A larger increase of $980,000 was seen in calendar year 2018/fiscal year 20 l 9 due to a tax
        increase.

Other year-to-date tax revenues:

    •   Motor vehicle fee-in-lieu revenue wil1 be similar to FY 2025. Current revenue was
        approximately $385,000, with an additional $25,000 to $50,000 anticipated by year end.
    •   Sales taxes were booked through November 2025, with a total of$3.897 million received year
        to date. That reflects an increase of $184,000 over the previous fiscal year and is in line with
        the budget.
    •   County option highway sales tax was $18,000 ahead of FY 2025, with $349,000 received year
        to date.
    •   County local transit sales tax is new and not included in the current budget. Approximately
        $175,000 has been received year to date, and FY 2026 revenue is projected to be $420,000.
        All revenue must be used for transportation projects.
    •   Transient room tax was $66,400, approximately $3,000 behind FY 2025.
    •   Municipal energy tax was $1.070 million year to date, $10,000 ahead of FY 2025.
    •   Cable television franchise tax was at $35,000, approximately $3,800 behind FY 2025
    •   Class C Road revenues were $876,000, $105,000 ahead of FY 2025.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       18
General Fund expenses through December 2025 totaled $12 .08 million, approximately $372,000 over
FY 2025. However, that is on track with or slightly behind the typical year-over-year budget increase.
Revenues totaled $13.584 million year to date, $25,000 behind FY 2025.

5.0     ACTION ITEMS

        5.1      Consideration of Resolution 2026-10 Approving an Agreement with Perkins
                 Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services.
                 (Bv this Resolution the Council will Approve the City's entry into an Independent
                 Contractor Agreement wltereunder Perkins Engineering. Inc. will provide
                 engineering and related services in connection with the City'foi· planned
                 reconstruction of Highland Drive between Bengal Boulevard and Blackstone R oad
                 under City's Proiect No. 004.26).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the 'Nork Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-10 Approving an
Agreement with Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Newell-
y es; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        5.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-11 Ratifving Revised Council Committee
                 Assignments.
                 (This Resolution will Approve an Amended list o( the Council's "outside" ,md
                 "inside" Committee and Board Assignments to incorporate changes made to the list
                 approved under Resolution 2026-08).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-11 Ratifying Revised
Council Committee Assignments. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Y cs. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        6.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Oath of Office Meeting on January
                 5, 2026, the Citv Council Work Session and Business Meetings of January 6, 2026,
                 and the City Council Pre-Legislative Breakfast Meeting of January 9, 2026.

Mayor Bennion stated that changes had been submitted to City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, by Council
Members Birrell and Hyland.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026     Approved: _ _ _   _ __

                                                       19
MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar, as amended. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

7.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Cmmcil Member Newell moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:36 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026   Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       20
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and City Council Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, February 3, 2026.


TevL Forbe.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 3, 2026   Approved: _   _   _   _   _ _

                                                       21
MINUTES OF THE COTTON,VOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNClL RETREAT HELD
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24, 2026, AT 8:30 A.M. AT CITY HALL LOCATED AT 2277
EAST BENGAL BOULEYARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT 84121.

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn E. Newell, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Police Chief,
                         Robby Russo; Assistant Police Chief, Chris McHugh; Community and
                         Economic Development Director, Jimi Spung; Finance and Administrative
                         Services Director, Scott Jurges; Records, Human Resources, and Culture
                         Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Public Works
                         Director, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.      Breakfast

2.      Welcome and Introduction

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the meeting to order at approximately 8:30 a.m.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that he would endeavor to keep the meeting on track to
ensure that all important topics arc covered. A future afternoon retreat would be scheduled to
review the proposed budget based on infonnation provided during the meeting. He asked that the
conversation be kept at a high level. He and the department heads would then use that guidance
to create more detailed recommended departmental budgets.

3.       Compensation Study - GBS

Mr. Gerber introduced Clay Johnson from GBS Benefits Inc., which conducted the City's
Compensation Study. Mr. Johnson stated that he has been a compensation professional for 10
years. His colleagues, Diane Waters and Rick Stewart, perfonned the benefits analysis.

Mr. Johnson reported that the goal was to benchmark how Cottonwood Heights' current pay ranges
and benefit offerings compare to neighboring cities of Holladay, Millcreek, Midvale, Murray,
North Salt Lake City, Riverton, and South Salt Lake City. He noted that the peer cities were
anonyrnized in the report graphs.

The first area was reviewed involved the number of medical plans offered. Cottonwood Heights
offers one high-deductible plan, whereas most other cities offer two to three. Typically, both high-
deductible and traditional plans are offered. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Mr. Johnson stated that high-deductible plans are usually paired with a Healthcare Savings
Account ("HSA"). If the Council had an interest, the City's broker or his colleagues at GBS could
help them explore other options.



 City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights    Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                        1
Employers often choose to contribute to employees' HSAs, and how much is contributed is at the
employer's discretion. Some peer cities contribute up to $4,500 annually for family plans.
Cottonwood Heights is cun-ently the lowest contributor among its peer group for both individual
and family plan contributions. In response to a question from Com1cil Member Holton,
Mr. Johnson stated that he does not know the size of those cities' budgets, and the results are
anonymized among the peer cities listed earlier. Council Member Hyland stated that South Salt
Lake City and Murray have much higher budgets than other peer cities. Mr. Johnson remarked
that it is a balancing act because cities want to compare themselves to other cities of the same size,
but potential employees do not take that into consideration. Any city within driving distance
competes with Cottonwood Heights for employees.

For dental plans, the employee/employer split was considered. Cottonwood Heights contributes
70% of monthly premiums for employees and their families, and on average the peer group
contributes 91 %.

The study also considered affordability. Cottonwood Heights covers the full monthly medical plan
premium for individual employees. Records, Human Resources, and Culture Director, Barbara
Higgins, reported that the City just began doing so in 2025 when it transitioned to the Public
Employees Health Pro6rram ("PEHP"). Mr. Johnson reported that three cities in the peer group
also cover the full premium, while others charge $100 or more per month. In response to a question
raised by Council Member Birrell, he clarified that the comparison was of high-deductible HSA
plans only, not Preferred Provider Organizations ("PPO").

Council Member Hyland remarked that dental plans are usually small in comparison to medical
plans, but a slide was not provided with medical premium comparisons. Mr. Johnson stated that
that data is provided in the full report.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Higgins reported that significantly
more employees are on the family plan than the individual plan, and the City is not as competitive
on the family plan. Some new employees have said that transitioning to Cottonwood Heights was
a burden because even though the City has higher pay, more is taken ot1t of their paycheck for
insurance. Council Member Birrell stated that most of the key employees who had left over the
past two years either had or were starting families. It was noted that the problem is exacerbated
by the low HSA contributions because employees are both paying more for their premiums and
having to contribute more to the HSA.

Mr. Johnson reported that the findings suggest considering a higher HSA contribution, a second
medical plan like a PPO, and increasing its dental plan contribution.

Compensation was reviewed next. Mr. Johnson explained that compensation analyses follow a
proven methodology.

    •   Step l: Determine the ex.temal market value of the job by identifying the relevant labor
        market, because Cottonwood Heights competes with similar entities within a geographic
        proximity.


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       2
   •    Step 2: Ensme that, as much as possible, they are making an apples-to-apples comparison
        rather than comparing positions by title only.
            o External value: They verify that the Human Resources Director in a peer city
                performs the same tasks as that position in Cottonwood Heights.
            o Internal value: Organizations have different priorities, so some roles may have
                more significance. They also consider the internal impact of each job.

    •   Step 3: They compjle and evaluate the data set to detennine the competitiveness of the
        city's pay practices and how well its pay ranges reflect the market. They can then make
        recommendations and assess their potential impact.

Approximately 50% of the City's pay ranges for civilian jobs were determined to be trailing the
market. Mr. Gerber clarified that this applies to salary ranges, not necessarily what employees are
currently paid. Mr. Johnson added that they focus on ranges because it is a more stable metric.
Individual employees may tum over, but the pay ranges remain stable. Pay ranges for civHian jobs
are approximately 9% below those of peer cities. The full report provides a complete breakdown
of the specific jobs that need increases to catch up to the market.

Sworn jobs were addressed next. Mr. Johnson indicated that their focus was on police officers and
sergeants. Most jobs in Cottonwood Heights have one person in the role, but officers and sergeants
represent 25% of the City's total employees. Changes to pay practices for those two roles will
affect a large portion of the employee population. The labor market for police officers is very
competitive, and there has been rapid wage growth in Salt Lake County. He reported that in
comparison to 11 nearby police departments with a focus on similar sized cities, Cottonwood
Heights' pay ranks fifth.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated
that he does not know which cities Cottonwood Heights was compared to, and if it included the
eight agencies the City is losing people to. Mr. Johnson clarified that the city is approximately
fifth due to variations like starting pay rates. However, Cottonwood Heights' officer and sergeant
pay trails more and more the longer they stay in their position because pay progression is not as
rapid for officers in Cottonwood Heights as it is in other cities.

The study jndudes models of updates that would have the most meaningful impact to officer pay.
A modest investment to change starting pay and structural changes to step increases would have a
meaningful impact on hiring and retaining officers, especially the retention of more senior
employees.

Mayor Bennion asked if there were other major gaps that should be discussed. For example, she
has heard that the City docs not offer maternity leave. Council Member Hyland stated that the
lack of maternity leave is a large gap in the City's offerings. Ms. Higgins clarified that the issue
is paid family leave, which can be taken by either the mother or father. Approximately 50% of
cities in Utah offer this type of plan. She and Mr. Gerber have discussed it and it is something
they would like to offer. However, in addition to the added costs, it affects the City's already tight

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       3
staffing. When the only person in a role is out of the office, that makes things difficult because
there often is no one else to fill in.

All employees are eligible for 12 weeks of 1eave through the Family Medical Leave Act
("FMLA"), which can be a combination of accrued paid leave and unpaid leave. Staff has
discussed how much paid family leave can be offered. It is difficult because Cottonwood Heights
is a small city that has focused on saving money with limited staffing over the years. As an
example, if the payroll clerk is out, Finance and Administrative Services Director, Scott Jurges,
would have to take on that role in addition to his other duties.

Cmmcil Member BiITell asked how Cottonwood Heights compares with its 11 peer cities.
Ms. Higgins reported that when she studied it in 2025, approximately 50% of cities in the Salt
Lake Valley offered some type of parental leave. Council Member Hyland remarked that it could
be a set amount of time that is paid or partially paid. Council Member Holton stated that his wife
is a speech pathologist for the school system. When they had their first child, she received two
weeks of paid maternity leave. Mr. Gerber reported that all employees can use their accumulated
paid time off ("PTO") and sick leave for FMLA, but no additional paid leave is currently offered.
The school district offers two weeks of paid maternity leave but fewer vacation days than
Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Hyland stated that women bear the burden of biology, and she is committed to
ensuring that the City does not discriminate against them. Ms. Higgins reported that employees
have been lost because the City docs not offer paid family leave, but it needs to be balanced with
ensuring that there is no loss of service to residents.

To get to the top three cities for sworn employees, the yearly additional cost would be between
$182,000 and $265,000, including increased benefits costs but excluding overtime.              For
department heads and civilian employees, including adding an assistant city manager, an additional
$344,700 would be required to put Cottonwood Heights in the middle of pay ranges for peer cities.
Benefits would be an additional 35% to 45%. Ms. Higgins reported that she and Mr. Geher had
discussed staffing changes that would limit the increase to $200,000. This variance is
approximately 20% for civilian employees and 40% for sworn employees and is affected by factors
such as insurance participation.

In response to a qLLestion raised by Council Member Holton, Ms. Higgins reported that reducing
staff without hiring an assistant city manager would decrease costs by approximately $210,000.
Without staffing changes, there would be an increase of approximately $144,000. Council
Member Newell asked how the staffing changes would constrain City operations. Ms. Higgins
stated that they do not believe it will affect level of service.

Council Member Hyland asked if many employees had taken advantage of the four-day work
week. Ms. Higgins reported that it has been very popular. However, there have been some issues.
For example, she works Monday through Thursday, and Hmnan Resources Analyst Cienna
Brummel works Tuesday through Friday. !t is difficult for Ms. Brummel to take a Friday off
because otherwise, there will not be a human resources staff member available that day. New hires
often begin work on Mondays, but Ms. Brummel is off on Mondays. It would be nice if everyone

 City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        4
could work the same four days, but she had heard only positive feedback regarding the four-day
work week and associated increase in work-life balance. Mr. Geber added that some employees
prefer a five-day work week with a remote option, but the City could consider moving most
positions to four days with only a couple of positions remaining fully remote.

Council Member Hyland stated that Midvale did a four-day work week trial with the understanding
that if there were a lot of citizen or developer complaints, they would go back to a five-day work
week. They have not gone back to five days because there have been no complaints. Mr. Gerber
reported that the Public Works Department has been closed on Fridays for six months and no
complaints have been received. Council Member Holton stated that the City would pay more in
overtime for plowing on Fridays. Mr. Gerber indicated that they had discussed utilizing flex time
if a storm is coming.

Council Member Hyland stated that the value of a four-day work week cannot be calculated in a
salary comparison study, and that it may be very attractive to prospective employees. Council
Member Birrell remarked that she would have loved the option when she was raising her children.
Mr. Gerber stated that it would be easier to manage if all employees worked the same four days.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, stated that he has worked in other municipalities with four-
day workweeks that had issues with residents who wanted to pay their utility bills on Fridays, but
that would not apply to Cottonwood Heights. Residents get used to the City being closed on
Fridays, and it provides a nice work-life balance. Ms. Higgins reported that it is a great recruiting
tool. Applicants have reached out to verify that the City really does offer a four-day work week.

ln response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Gerber stated that City Hall room rentals
were not cunently being offered because Staff was in the process of evaluating the policy and fees.
However, Friday room rentals could be handled like Saturday rentals. Employees could be asked
to flex their time, or they could pay for room monitors. In response to a follow-up question,
Ms. Higgins confirmed that the high school rented the room it used the previous day.

4.      Financial Model and Budget Priorities - LRB.

Mr. Gerber reported that LRB Public Financial Advisors had prepared a fiscal model by reviewing
past budgets against departmental requests for the next five years to provide a better understanding
of the revenue required to fund those requests. He asked Mr. Jurges to provide a finance update
prior to reviewing the model.

Mr. Jurges reviewed the City' s property tax trends through January 2026 and reported that the
average increase in property tax revenue is $50,000 per year. A larger increase of $980,000 was
seen in calendar year 2018/fiscal year 2019 due to a tax increase, but otherwise, that revenue is
consistent and flat year after year. Property taxes eomp1ise approximately 33% of the City's
revenue.

Mr. Gerber remarked that the State Legislatme is considering new bills on property taxes, one of
which would limit increases to 5%. Council Member Holton stated that there is also a bill that
would shift the burden to commercial properties and provide a higher exemption for homeowners.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       5
Communities that cannot shift the financial burden onto businesses will be forced to raise taxes
just to retain their cmTent tax revenue. It was clarified that the ce1tificd tax rate ("CTR") would
increase automatically. The bill would make economic development harder and would represent
a large downturn for bedroom communities like Cottonwood Heights that do not have a lot of
c01mnercial property. Concerns were expressed that if the measure goes on the ballot, typical
homeowners may not realize the consequences of voting for it.

Other year-to-date tax revenues:

   •    Motor vehicle fee-in-lieu revenue will be similar to FY 2025. Cun-ent revenue was
        approximately $385,000, with an additional $25,000 to $50,000 anticipated by year end.

    •   Sales taxes were booked through October 2025, which was $17,000 behind the prior year,
        but November revenue should bring the totals $184,000 higher than 2025 and in line with
        the budget.

    •   County option highway sales tax was $1,000 behind fiscal year 2025, with $268,000
        received year to date.

    •   County local transit sales tax is new and not included in the cun-ent budget. All revenue
        must be used for capital projects. FY 2026 revenue is expected to be $400,000.

    •   Transient room tax was currently $11,000 behind FY 2025. Mr. Jurges reported that
        October revenues were lower than in FY 2025, but that trend reversed in November. He
        expects November revenue to bring the total in line with the budget. Council Member
        Hyland remarked that the Granicus software should improve these revenues as it will help
        capture tax revenue from the 500 more short-term rentals.

    •   Municipal energy tax was $13,000 ahead of FY 2025 and on track with the budget.

    •   Cable television tax continued its downward trajectory, and Mr. Jurges anticipates ending
        below the $271,000 budgeted for FY 2026. A potential franchise tax on data would replace
        this lost revenue.

    •   Class C Road revenues were $ l 05,000 ahead of FY 2025, with the potential of ending the
        year above the $1.6 million current-year budget.

Mr. Jurges reported that revenues were higher in 2022 and 2023 due to $2 million in State and
Local Fiscal Recovery Ftmds that were received in those years. If those funds are removed, the
growth trend is more stable. He expressed no concerns with expense trends for the year and noted
that the first month of each quarter is typically higher as the United Fire Authority payment is paid
at that time.




City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       6
Fred Philpot of LRB Public Financial Advisors reported on the Financial Sustainability Model.
CommLmities often focus on their cunent-year budget only, and the model is intended to allow for
scenario analysis beyond the current budget and help understand the effects of multiple factors
within the General Fund. The exercise is intended to highlight what tools are available and assist
with prioritization.

In preparing the model, they pull historic General Fund revenues and expenses into au Excel-based
model, then make projections relative to inflation, revenue growth, and expense changes. They
also collect new, unfunded ongoing and one-time expenses that will need to be covered through
the General Fund. Monies are transferred between the General Fund, enterprise funds, and sub-
funds to comply with State statute or save for capital improvements. To evaluate the true impact
on property taxes, some of that revenue is pulled back into the General Fund through modeling.
For example, one-time expenses will likely be paid through the Capital Projects Fund, but they are
pulled into the model to measure the amount of revenue needed to fund them. Their objective is
to review the deficits and recommend next steps. Based on the City Council's feedback, they can
model different scenarios and how they should be prioritized. The objective is to determine the
necessary changes to fund the level of service the Council wants to maintain.

The model considers 2019 through 2024 actuals, 2025 projected actuals, and the 2026 budget,
focusing on a five-year planning period for taxation and revenue policy. It begins with an
unrestricted Fund balance of $4 million. Other funds earmarked for specific purposes are not
measured. It assumes that monies will continue to be transferred out for debt service and capital
improvement needs and aims to hit the 35% maximum carryover target. Mr. Philpot pointed out
that the 35% figure is a percentage of revenue generation, not expenses, which can be a double-
edged sword because the benchmark increases as taxes are raised. Some cities with healthy fund
balances choose to lower the target percentage because the amount keeps increasing with revenue.

Revenue growth assumptions were reviewed. No property tax increases were included, but a year
growth-related revenue increase of $50,000 to $60,000 was assumed. Citizens sometimes do not
understand that the certified tax rate means new revenue is not generated as property appreciates.
Revenues only increase with new construction or when redevelopment areas expire.

Council Member Birrell asked if any additional property tax revenue was anticipated from the 300-
unit north Grave1 Pit project. Mr. Philpot stated that it was not currently projected, but can be
programmed into the model. Mr. Jurges stated that a project that is completed by December 31 of
the year of measurement does not provide the City with tax revenue until November of the
following year. Projects that will not be completed within four years will not impact the model,
and no building permits have been issued for the Gravel Pit project. In response to a follow-up
question, Mr. Gerber clarified that an apartment building is planned, and they have not decided if
the second property will be a hotel or another residential property. The model focuses on trends,
not one-time events, but docs provide flexibility to address those types of scenarios.

Sales and use tax revenue is expected to grow at a rate of 2.6% based on historical trends.
However, sales tax is volatile, and trends indicate a slowdown in this area. Cable television taxes
are expected to continue declining over time. Conservative growth assumptions were applied to
the other revenue types.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights    Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       7
One~time capital improvements were identified through discussions with Staff. All improvements
represent a large dollar amount, but those dollars conespond to level of service. Ongoing
operational expenses were also included in the model, including both current and future staff
requests and anticipated inflation. Requests include additional employees, software, cost ofliving
adjustments, materials, and equipment.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Philpot clarified that the model
suggests the need for an additional $2.8 million in 2027, and another $800,000 in 2028, etc.
Mr. Gerber remarked that the $2.8 million would cover all departmental requests, and not all
requests will be granted. The model represents up-front adjustments, and ongoing costs are
increased by 3% per year to account for inflation. In response to a follow-up question from Council
Member Holton, Mr. Philpot reported that he would double-check the future year projections for
accuracy. The spreadsheet will be distributed to the City Council so they can review the new
expenses that were brought into the model.

In addition to one-time and operational costs, equipment lease assumptions were included. Future
lease increase of 10% were assumed for police vehicles.

The factors that influence the General Fund arc base inflation, operations and maintenance
("O&M") expense increases, and one-time expenses. Most entities under-project revenues and
ovcr~project expenses, so the model starts at and perpetuates a deficit. The practice of under-
projecting revenues hopefully either creates a balance or surplus that can be added to the Fund
balance. The model is based on the 2026 budget and shows a perpetual spend down of Fund
balance, which will need to be addressed moving forward.

Mr. Gerber stated that Mr. Jurges has done a very good job of underestimating revenues and
overestimating expenses, but the Fund balance has continued to decrease every year. Mr. Philpot
agreed that a $4 million General Fund balance is a very small number in comparison to the City's
budget.

Mr. Philpot reviewed various scenarios, from maintaining the current level of service with only
inflationary increases to bringing in every departmental request.

Scenario 1

    •   No new property taxes
    •   No one-time expenses or O&M costs
    •   Inflationary increases and lease payments were included.
    •   The General Fund balance will be depleted by FY 2028.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Gerber reported that the Town
Center will not reach full buildout for at least two years, possibly three. At full buildout, he
estimates between $1.5 and $2 million in lease and sales tax revenue. Mr. Jurges stated that the
initial land lease is expected to begin in FY2027-2028, but the property will not generate sales tax


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights     Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       8
at that time. The Town Center was not included in projections because the deficit must be
addressed prior to it generating revenue. However, those assumptions could influence the strategy
for years four and five.

Council Member Holton stated that both the Town Center and Gravel Pit should be included in the
projections because both arc approved future developments. City Attorney, Shane Topham,
cautioned that there is still uncertainty regarding the Town Center project. The City has up to three
years to deliver the site, and there is no signed lease, only an Agreement to Lease that contains
contingencies. He believes it is more of a longer-term prospect. Mr. Jurges agreed that it is best
to leave projects out of the model until there is more clarity on when they will begin generating
revenue. Mr. Philpot stated that he would work with Staff to build the appropriate expectations
into the model.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Gerber confirmed that the City will be at
the minimum allowed Fund balance by the end of year one.

Mr. Philpot pointed out that Scenario 1 includes lease assumptions related to increases in public
safety and other vehicle needs but does not include new one-time or operations and maintenance
expense requests. Adding those expenses compounds the problem.

Scenario 2

    •   No new property taxes
    •   Inflationary increase and lease payments
    •   All one-time and O&M expense requests
    •   Increases expenses by $4.5 to $5 million.

Mr. Philpot reporied that the City' s property tax revenue is approximately $8 million, and sales
tax revenues are decreasing. Unless new fonns of sales tax are created and new revenue generated,
base revenue is not sufficient to handle inflation. Property taxes keep the City whole relative to
the prior year. In other states, property tax revenue fluctuates as properties appreciate or
depreciate. Utah ensures that revem1es never decrease, but there is also no gain relative to inflation.
Other revenues and new growth are intended to cover that deficit.

Council Member Hyland stated that sales tax should be inflation-proof because, as prices increase,
more sales tax is generated. However, the City is not experiencing that. The budget was not
inflation-proofed in regard to property taxes because of Truth in Taxation, and sales tax is not
keeping up with inflation as it should.

Mr. Philpot reported that all departmental requests were added to the model; nothing was
prioritized or moved. Mr. Gerber added that the requests were not a wish list but rather
departmental needs that have been put off for years. They are needed to maintain the current level
of service and increase in some areas as they have been asked to do. The City has spent years
doing more with less, and it is now at the point where the current level of service cannot be



City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       9
maintained without these expenditures. Either level of service must be reduced or additional
resources are needed.

Some items included in the model were new. For example, the Council had discussed having its
own Parks division to take over park maintenance because it has almost reached the break-even
point in what is being paid to the Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Service Area.

Mr. Philpot reported that a PDF would be sent to the Council that outlines all new assumptions.
The model perpetuates the City's practice of overestimating expenses and underestimating
revenues. At the Council's direction, it can be updated to use actuals instead ofbudgeted numbers
for 2025. However, that is not standard practice and could create additional risk. As is, the model
presents realistic assumptions relative to base revenue growth, and expenses are outpacing growth.

The recommended solution is to consider a property tax increase. There arc other, less impactfol
options to increase revenue generation. For example, the City can reevaluate its fees to ensure that
the charges for services matches the cost. His firm conducts those studies for many communities
and identifies some opportunities, but not enough to solve the City's issues. Mr. Gerber stated that
it was broadly reviewed, and doubling all fees would bring in less than $1 million in revenue. The
City is overdue for a comprehensive fee study as its fees are lower than those of many other cities
in the Salt Lake Valley. Mr. Philpot stated that business license fees can be assessed differently
as well.

In response to a question, Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, stated
that a disproportionate fee could be assessed for a hotel, for example, which will generate more
police calls. That need is taken into account in addition to the base license fee. Mr. Philpot stated
that he worked with South Jordan on their fee schedule. Big box stores, convenience stores, and
hotels have a lot of calls for service, so their licensing fees can be between several thousand and
tens of thousands of dollars. That could generate a few hundred thousand dollars and be helpful,
but it would not solve the City's multimillion-dollar shortfall. Mr. Gerber pointed out that
increased fees must be justified through a study, and the Council would need to consider whether
charging higher fees would stymie growth in certain sectors.

Mr. Philpot reported that it is a matter of prioritization and reevaluation. Reevaluation involves
adjusting the current level of service, meaning budget cuts, and p1ioritization of future spending.
All the infonnation provided by Staff was included in the model, but it was up to the City Council
to detennine where the budget dollars should be spent. The next step would be for the C0tmcil to
provide input on scenario evaluations and what they want to see in the model. LRB will then work
with Staff to gather additional information and retum to the Council with updated models.

State statute does not require the City to have a comprehensive financial sustainability plan. It is
a standard of practice that most municipalities utilized with enterprise funds and are now applying
to their General Fund. LRB can provide those updates, or they have an Excel model that can be
updated in-house. Mr. Gerber stated that his intention for the model is to use it to make data-
driven decisions rather than the gut decisions that were made in the past. It will help the Council
understand the true cost of providing the level of service it wants to provide.


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       10
Mr. Philpot went into further detail on the functions and assumptions of the Excel model. In
response to a question from Council Member Hyland, he clarified that a 2.6% in sales tax revenue
was projected each year. Inflation of3% is assumed by the model. Council Member Newell stated
that the presentation had been eye-opening.

Mr. Gerber asked for direction on what Staff needs to consider in terms of revenue for their budget
proposals. He asked if the City Council wanted to consider reevaluating/cutting service, a tax
increase, or both. He understands that the $2.8 million in requests will not be fulfilled. Some
projects can be pushed to future years, but they need a target number to present a solid proposal to
the Council.

Council Member Hyland stated that one option would be to limp along until the Gravel Pit and
Town Center are online. She understands the uncertainty, but anything beyond 18 months is
uncertain. This option would require at least a slight increase in property taxes, and determining
what can be done to save money in the interim. She did not yet have a sense of what the actual
revenue increase needs to be. Mr. Jurges reported that a 25% increase would provide
approximately $2 million in additional revenue. If all future costs arc removed, including leased
vehicle replacement, that will still cause issues down the road. One-time increases fix a problem
today, but the same factors wit I continue to affect you. The increase in inflation relative to revenue
will continue to erode the fund balance.

Mr. Jurgcs recommended that if the City Council decides not to allow any new O&M or capital
expenditures, they approve an up-front property tax increase with annual inflationary increases.
One way entities do this is by keeping their tax rate the same year after year. Because of
appreciation, the mill rate naturally goes down. Some entities choose to keep it constant, which
requires a Truth in Taxation hearing but captures appreciation.

Council Member Hyland stated that since 2018, there has been 29% inflation overall. In 2018, the
tax increase made the City whole to that year and did not look forward. American Recovery Plan
Act ("ARP A") funds then bailed the City out. If a 29% property tax increase is enacted in 2026,
it will only make the City whole. A target can then be set to do a Truth in Taxation hearing every
year to keep up with inflation.

Mr. Jurges reviewed historical revenue trends. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Hyland, he reported that sales and property tax revenues for the Town Center cannot be estimated
at this time because it will depend on the businesses that open there, and it could be up to three
years before construction even begins. Mr. Topham added that free and reduced rents will also be
offered for a period of time.

Mr. Philpot reported that a one-time 25% property tax increase plus 3% per year will keep the
General Fund at $4 million. Future assumptions may help the City get closer to the 35% target.
Mr. Gerber stated that unrestricted funds should be used for grant matching and one-time projects
and to fill emergency needs. At 35%, the General Fund should have a balance of between $9
million and $10 million. The current $4 million could be adequate for a City of Cottonwood
Heights' size if it was not using some of the funds for operating expenses. Mr. forges stated that
he would like to have a balance of$5 to $6 million. Revenues are primarily received in November

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       11
and December, and sales tax revenue is received two months in arrears. Capital expenditures often
must be delayed until after the first of the year because there must be enough money to make
payroll. Mr. Gerber added that when the balance drops, the amount of earned interest also
decreases. The City has lost 5% each year due to this.

Council Member Hyland stated that she understands how scary a 25% increase can sound. Salt
Lake County put out an article outlining what an extra $7 per month in property taxes provides its
residents, and that $7 reflected a 19% increase. In response to her questions, it was reported that
based on average home values, the 30%1 increase would be approximately $15 per month.

Mayor Bennion stated that it is important to discuss the dollar amount rather than the increase.
Mr. Gerber remarked that the percentage must be adve1tised by law, but the education and
discussion can focus on the dollar amount.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, it was confinned that the General
Obligation Bond is a separate line item. The City's base municipal tax is $585 per year for the
average home, or $48 per month, plus $7.85 for the bond. The total monthly tax is $56 for the
average home, plus approximately $4. The 30% increase would be approximately $15 per month
and is applied to the base rate only, not the bond. Future bond increases and the total average tax
paid were discussed.

Council Member Hyland stated that a Citizen Committee should be fonned to look at the potential
increase. Mayor Bennion agreed.

Mr. Gerber stated that he had created a list of recommended qualifications to ensure that the
committee members are well-informed. They must commit to the meeting times, have a basic
understanding of municipal budgeting and their role as an advisory committee, and the committee
should be of a manageable size. Council Member Hyland remarked that research has shown that
teams with more than seven members are ineffective unless they arc slit into subgroups. Seven
members would allow for one member from each district, plus three at-large members. In response
to a question, Mr. Topham confinned that it would fall under the ad-hoc committee categorization.

Mayor Bennion stated that she has spoken with Staff about big-picture concepts. Some
neighboring cities have a contractual government where they contract for services more than
Cottonwood Heights. The City has its own police and snowplowing, for example, which adds to
both costs and staffing needs. Snow plows have doubled in cost, and she believes it may be worth
looking at what it would cost to contract with Salt Lake County for that service. She understands
that they may not provide the same level of service and that it is complicated because employees
who do snow removal also repair roads and sidewalks. It may not be a viable option, but it is
worth discussing. Also, there may be things like the SWAT vehicle that the City does not need.

Council Member Newell stated that the City has experienced contracting for snow removal and it
did not work well. Council Member Holton recormnended that people who were part of the City
in the past and participated in those debates be invited to provide a historical perspective on those
topics. Mr. Topham recommended speaking with fom1er Mayor Cullimore. Council Member


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       12
Hyland stated that the residents who were recently annexed into Cottonwood Heights were paying
triple for municipal services in comparison to what they will pay in the City.

Mayor Bennion stated that she would like to understand why Cottonwood Heights needs a SWAT
vehicle. Mr. Gerber clarified that the City does not currently have one, but it has been requested
for 2030. Council Member Newell stated that services are often shared between municipalities,
and that would present an opportunity to do so. Council Member Holton remarked that there have
been shocking incidents in the City, including an individual in the apartments across from Walmart
who hroke the gas line in an attempt to blow up the building.

Mayor Bennion appreciated the infonnation Council Member Hyland provided about the costs
previously paid by residents of the annexed areas. How low Cottonwood Heights' costs have been
should be highlighted. An average of $65 per month for fire, police, snow plowing, and other City
services is almost less than garbage pickup costs.

Mr. Gerber asked ifhe should speak with the County about snow plowing. Council Member Birrell
stated that all costs should be considered. It is not just the cost of a vehicle, but also labor and
other costs. She has lived in Cottonwood Heights for 39 years, and in recent years she believes
snow plowing has been inefficient. It is important to evaluate things transparently and look at the
full costs the City is burdened with.

Council Member Hyland stated that contracted services usually cost more because the entity pads
their budget to ensure that they sufficiently cover all costs. It may have been beneficial if the City
had retained that service, but she does not believe it would be beneficial now. Council Member
Holton agreed that contracted services are not immune to inflation, and they protect their margins.

Chief Russo remarked that Holladay and other cities contract for police services tlrrough the
Unified Police Department ("UPD"). Cottonwood Heights has studied those costs against its
police department costs, and contract costs have increased exponentially. The City saved millions
of dol1ars by having its own police department. He asked if the City Council was considering UPD
as an option. The City Council confinncd that it was not being considered. Council Member
Hyland stated that the number of entities they arc serving is shrinking, which means their overhead
is higher. Mr. Gerber indicated that it may have heen an option if the organization were run
differently. Chief Russo reported that they recently increased taxes on their systems without
legislative oversight.

Mayor Be1mion stated that she brought up Public Works because snow removal equipment has
doubled in cost to almost $500,000 per vehicle. Cottonwood Heights provides excellent services,
and the Public Works Department runs as efficiently as the rest of the City. Counci1 Member
Hyland stated that she asked Mr. Shipp about the increase in infrastructure costs, and he indicated
that they have increased by at least 25%. You cannot overcome 29% inflation without some type
of increase, and the City cannot cut anymore. Mr. Shipp reported that the County will not just do
snowplowing. They would want to take over the full Public Works Department, and the City has
a brand-new Public Works building and staff. Council Member Newell stated that the building
will add to the vehicles' useful life, which will provide a considerable return on the investment.


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       13
Those types of decisions will make a positive impact moving fonvard. He does not believe the
City should consider contracting for services it already has available.

Mayor Bennion remarked that she hopes the public understands that the City Council is looking at
the details and recognizes that the City has not kept up with inflation. Taxpayers in Cottonwood
Heights have been underpaying for the past seven years, and now an adjustment is required.
Council Member Hyland stated that Truth in Taxation is very difficult because the mill rate is
frustratingly complicated to describe.

1t was decided that the Citizen Committee would consist of seven members, one from each district
and three at-large members. Applications will be required.

Council Member Hyland stated that Planning Commissioner Garry Barnes may be interested in
participating. Mayor Bennion expressed concern about how busy the Plam1ing C01m11ission is
with the General Plan. Council Member Birrell stated that anyone should be able to apply, but she
does not believe favoritism should be shown toward Planning Commissioners. Council Member
Hyland clarified that her question was whether they should be exc]uded. Council Member Birrell
stated that she hears from many residents who want to do more, and she wants to ensure that they
have the opportunity.

Mr. Gerber stated that Staff will work on an application and meeting schedule. He hopes to meet
weekly and present the committee's recommendations to the City Council by March 30. He will
modify his February newsletter article to include information about the committee.

Mr. Jurges reported that the fire service area rate is higher than the City's base rate. If Cottonwood
Heights were to join the fire service area rather than paying UFA directly, the City would pay the
equivalent of $8.5 million. He then discussed rates relative to home values in neighboring cities.
Regarding the Recreation Center, he believes it should be part of Salt Lake County and taxed at
the county rate. In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Council Member
Hyland reported that she calculated her tax increase at 60% if the rest of the City were brought
into the Recreation Center Service Area. Not including the potential increase, it would bring
Cottonwood Heights property taxes to a level between MutTay and Riverton. Three entities
cunently have General Obligation Bonds: Cottonwood Heights, Sandy, and Salt Lake City.

Mayor Bennion stated that she has heard from other cities that Cottonwood Heights has a great
budget balance. Property taxes, sales taxes, fees, etc., are equal, which is not true for cities like
Midvale. Some cities keep trying to raise their prope1ty taxes, but cannot generate the revenue
they need. Overall, Cottonwood Heights is in a good place. Mr. Jurges agreed. Combined revenue
between property and sales taxes is approximately $17 million. If that was comprised of two-
thirds sales tax and one-third property tax, and the tax increase was based on that smaller amount,
a much larger increase would be required to realize the same amount of funds. That is an issue in
Sandy. Mr. Gerber remarked that prior to COVID, manufacturers were requiring automotive
dealers to have larger lots with more storage, which is why many of them moved to South Jordan.
Sandy then lost a large portion of their sales tax revemLe. It is good that Cottonwood Heights'
revenues are balanced.


 City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       14
Mr. Jurges stated that property taxes must be advertised using percentages; a separate ad can be
run in conjunction that specifies the dollar amount and explains the increase in real numbers. Many
people think the increase is on their full property tax of approximately $4,500 on an average home,
whereas it is actually only on the Cottonwood Heights prope1iy tax, which is 15% of the total
amount.

Mr. Gerber reported that he and Mr. Jurges met with a consultant that helps municipalities with
Truth in Taxation advertising, education, and outreach. Their services would cost approximately
$15,000. No one on staff has expertise in this area, and it would be helpful to have the assistance
of someone who does.

Council Member Hyland was in favor of a consultant and indicated that South Jordan has "Property
Tax l 0 l" on their website. Something like that would be helpful to have on the Cottonwood
Heights website at all times, not just during Truth in Taxation. Council Member Birrell
recommended that it include education on terms like "service district" and "enterprise fund".

Mr. Gerber asked for guidance on whether the City Council wanted to achieve balance, consider
cutting costs, or enact a larger tax increase to get ahead of annual inflationary increases.

Council Member Birrell stated that she believes it would be a good exercise to ask each department
what it would look like to create, for example, a 3% efficiency, what they would change to reach
that goal, and why. Mr. Gerber stated that for cuts over 5% the answer is always personnel. Debt
service, capital projects, and other fixed expenses cannot be cut, so a 5% decrease in the overall
budget is really a 15% to 20% decrease in departmental budgets. He asked department heads to
find a 5% decrease in their departmental budget, and even at that percentage, the cuts have to come
from personnel. As discussed, the City has a very lean staff. That could be part of the education
campaign: If 5% is cut from each budget, these services will be affected, and in this way.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about leaving residents and future City Councils in
the same position. It is imp01iant to set things right now and institute a mechanism that keeps the
City whole and thriving in the future. They must consider opportunities to cut back, but they also
must ensure that the City is not put in this position again.

Council Member Hyland proposed a goal of making the City whole now and enacting enough of
an increase to keep it whole for three to four years. At that point, the Town Center and Gravel Pit
will no longer be unknowns and new decisions can be made.

Mr. Spung expressed concern that future developments are dependent on variables the City has no
control over. For example, the Canyon Centre has been approved for a long time. Interest rates
and financing issues mean that there is no guarantee when projects will come online or if current
projects will be completed. The City has more influence over the Town Center, but the north
Gravel Pit is unknown. They have zoning in place, but they need to obtain hundreds of millions
of dollars in financing to move forward. He cautioned against assuming that it will be online
within four years. Council Member Hyland clarified that she believes there will be more certainty
about the project in that time.


City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights     Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      15
Council Member Newell stated that he would like to make the City whole and then see some
flexibility embedded in the plan. They caimot be too rigid because of unknown factors. There
could be another pandemic or a boost in the economy, and building flexibility into the budget will
allow the City to adjust to those changes.

Mayor Bennion stated that she would rather be on the progressive side. She would like to have a
fourth firefighter at Station 116. The d1y winter could lead to a very bad summer, and she does
not want to be responsible for being down one person during an emergency. The City needs to
spend $150,000 to make its information technology systems safe from hackers. Other unknown
costs could arise. The City should not have to go into its reserves again because it cannot cover
necessary expenses. In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, she stated that she
would be in favor of a 30% increase to compensate for the 29% inflation the City has experienced,
with incremental yearly increases.

Council Member Birrell agreed that the City should be made whole next year and as much as
possible into the next four to five years. She does not want taxes raised dramatically in one year.
They can be increased again next year if necessary. In response to her question, Council Member
Hyland clarified that she believes the increase should be higher because 29% will only compensate
for inflation. It would be better to have a larger one-time increase that covers inflation for the next
three to four years.

:Mr. Gerber confirmed that a 30% increase would make the City whole for one year without
covering additional costs. It will not increase reserves or plan for the future. Staff can run the
model to detennine the percentage increase that would be needed. Council Member Hyland stated
that the increase may need to be as high as 50% or 60%, hut that can be detennined by the Citizen
Committee. It is her opinion that the increase should cover the City's needs for three to four years.
Mayor Bennion agreed.

Council Member Birrell indicated that, in addition to the fire department stafiing challenge, the
City has only begun to address its storm drain issues. Climate change may mean that the area's
precipitation comes down as rain, not snow. Uncertainties like that may require the use of reserve
funds.

Council Member Newell stated that he agrees with Council Member Hyland that they need to plan
for three years. Beyond that, too many changes may take place.

Council Member Holton reviewed the potential property tax increase amounts. A 30% increase
would make the total increase over the last few years approximately 54%, which he believes is too
high. However, he looked forward to input from the Citizen Committee.

Mr. Gerber asked if the City Council was interested in considering creating a public safety service
area. It would operate like a community redevelopment agency, and Trnth in Taxation would only
be required for that specific budget. Council Member Newell stated that he would be interested in
exploring the idea. Council Member Holton asked if the Citizen Committee could discuss the
option. Mayor Bennion remarked that her research indicated it would add at least one staff
member, and she wants the police department to be part of the City. Mr. Gerber stated that it can

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       16
be discussed with the Citizen Committee to determine their level of interest. Council Member
Holton indicated that it may be beneficial to research whether other cities' service areas had
worked as envisioned and how they affected the overall tax burden. The Council agreed that a
service area should not be created at this time but may be worth exploring at a later time.

Mr. Gerber stated that in previous years, mid-year project funding was an issue. He asked the
Council to decide on all projects during the budget cycle rather than approving smaller projects
throughout the year.

        a.       Possible Citizen Committee.

The Citizen Committee was discussed in conjunction with [tern 4.

Break/Lunch 12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m.

5.      City Council Priorities and Goals.

Mr. Gerber requested that all feedback and requests for infomiation on the Town Center be
funneled through him. Ken Melby has indicated that he is happy to speak with individual Council
members, but he has received conflicting feedback and direction. If Mr. Gerber is the main point
of contact, they can ensure that the direction Mr. Melby receives is from the full Council and not
individual members.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Gerber clarified that there had
been some communication and meetings with Council members that he was not involved in or
aware of. He had been out of the office so that was understandable, but moving forward he should
be copied on any communications.

Council Member Birrell remarked that the Council should discuss the project's status. Mr. Gerber
agreed that regular updates arc important but indicated that there was cunently not much to report.
Council Member Birrell stated that she would like there to be more transparency. Sh e had been
reminded that an agreement passed in early 2025 specified that the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore,
and City Manager would meet with Onyx and Thrive, but she had not realized that was part of the
document. Mr. Gerber stated that he will ensure everyone is kept apprised.

The property owner had exercised two extensions options on the purchase agreement for the
property under Walgreens, but the sale is expected to close mid-Febrnary. Onyx tendered a letter
of intent on the leasehold for the building, but the owner received a much higher counteroffer.
That will need to be negotiated once the land purchase is finalized. Dollar Tree is still in limbo.
Mr. Topham stated that the deadline is five years from the date the initial plan was adopted, which
was in December 2022. Some initial steps are required in case the Community Development and
Renewal Agency ("CORA") makes the decision to pursue imminent domain. The CDRA must
first be amended to allow for that action, and stLLdies are required in order to amend the plan.




City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights    Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _

                                                       17
Mr. Gerber will be meeting with the design team in February. The City agreed to reimburse up to
$200,000 for design work, and they want to move forward with design so that the project can begin
as soon as the land is cleared.

Mr. Topham reported that an apprai scr is working on the fair rental value of the property. The rent
amount included in the Agreement to Lease is a placeholder based on capitalization rates, and the
City has a fow months to make that adjustment if necessary. Ifthere is a discrepancy, the matter
will be discussed with the Council to determine next steps.

The City is putting more money into property maintenance. For example, only one parking lot
light is currently operational, and there had been issues with break-ins. In response to a question
raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Gerber reported that he had not heard of any recent issues
with overnight parking so that issue seems to have been resolved by the management company.

Council Member Birrell recalled that during the meetings prior to the purchase of Hillside Plaza,
the Council discussed the importance of activating the area for walkability, including creating a
long-term vision for a main street section Fort Union Boulevard. She is concerned that the initial
design has two-story buildings on both 2300 East and Fort Union Boulevard. In response to her
question, Council Member Newell stated that the design is not finalized but he has been happy
with the initial drafts. He questions how many people will walk to the Town Center from outside
the immediate neighborhood and where they will walk from. The developer has presented what
they would like to build, but they also indicate that they arc flexible on the design. He would
reserve his opinion until the final design is presented.

Council Member Birrell stated that in response to her questions, she was told that the uphill grade
does not lend itself to activating the street, which was new infonnation. She has advocated for
activating Promenade Drive so people from nearby neighborhoods can enter the Town Center via
that route. She wants to ensure that the foundational concept is a shared vision, and she would not
have supported the project had she known that the vision was for most people to arrive by car.

Council Member Holton stated that he and Council Member Hyland had voiced the position that
the Town Center is for the entire City. Residents of the far west side of Cottonwood Heights will
drive there and people who live nearby will likely walk. There needs to be ease of access for
everyone, and he believes that has been a consistent message throughout the process. Council
Member Hyland suggested that the conversation be continued in a future work meeting.

Mr. Topham stated that he has represented people and businesses in real estate transactions for
over 40 years. Typically, each side has one point of contact that conveys their team's position and
negotiates until a middle ground is reached. The Town Center project is different as the CDRA is
a public entity and five people are part of the decision-making team. It is fine to meet with the
developer to obtain infonnation, but he recommended that no commitments be made. Several key
issues are still open, including whether there will be an extension option on the lease and whether
the lease will be bifurcated. He cautioned the Council to not discuss their opinions directly with
the developer. That should be discussed as a body so that the public' s interest is met.

The City Council next discussed their goals and priorities.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       18
Mayor Bennion

Mayor Bennion reported that as she interacted with residents in her other role over the past five
years, she heard a clear message that there need to be additional ways to involve residents. Other
cities make it easy to volunteer via onlinc portals, for example.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Council has discussed how to reach citizens. There is a
newsletter, but she does not know how many people read it. Draper residents can opt in to receive
occasional text messages. She does not see many comments on social media anymore. How
people arc consuming information is changing, and there is competition for attention. She would
like the Council to discuss the possibility of providing infonnation via text messages.

Council Member Holton agreed and remarked that many residents would have liked to know about
the water main break before driving in that direction. However, the City would need to be very
sparing in how it communicates.

Council Member Newell stated that the City has improved greatly in communicating traffic issues
online, so it may just be a matter of capturing more people.

Mr. Gerber stated that everyone uses a different platform and each platform has a cost. Staff could
research the matter and present options to the Council.

Council Member Birrell remarked that she has heard that the use of artificial intelligence is making
it difficult for businesses to get enough clicks to properly evaluate their advertising.
Communication methods are changing quickly, and she is in favor of opt-in text messages.

Mayor Bennion stated that one resident was very impressed with the FlashVote survey on the
budget. She thought the questions were very helpful, and she would love to participate in more
surveys.

Depending on the outcome of budget discussions, the Council will need to consider the staffing
requirements to meet those priorities. Mayor Bennion stated that some Council members have
wondered if an assistant city manager needs to be brought on to help with the Town Center, which
requires different a different skill set. Mr. Gerber has indicated that this is not a typical project for
a city of Cottonwood Heights' size, and she believes an open discussion is needed about the
staffing required to achieve the best outcome.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the Gravel Pit may attract a large, national developer. She
believes that bringing in an assistant city manager with experience in this area will save a lot of
Staff time, headaches, mistakes, liabilities, and lost opportunities. Draper and Midvale both have
the position, and she believes it would increase Staff productivity.

Mr. Gerber stated that it would be an investment in economic development because that could be
the assistant city manager' s area of focus. He and Ms. Higgins have been working to reduce the
cost to the City. Council Member Hyland suggested that it should be someone with expertise in

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       19
both public finance and economic development. Council Member BiITell expressed support for
the position.

Mayor Bennion stated that she would like to eventually hire a fourth firefighter for Station 116,
although she understands that it may need to wait one to two years.

Council Member Holton

Council Member Holton stated that his priority is to create contingency plans for any external
gove1mnent agencies or service areas that the City relies on. There are bills every session that
address special districts and municipal service districts, and there is a push for counties to stop
providing these services. He believes Herriman will eventually leave the Wasatch Front Waste
and Recycling District, which will change the financial dynamic of the dishi.ct, and he wants to
ensure that the City has a backup plan.

Council Member Holton received an email from a teacher at Ridgecrest Elementary School who
indicated that the fifth grade class voted on names for the street in front of the school. Bella Vista
and Ridgecrest are combining, and the children voted for Tiger Cub Way in honor ofboth schools'
mascots. The children would like to present a request to honorarily rename the road at a City
Council meeting.

The Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee has requested an additional $3,000 to purchase
shi1ts and signs. Members have been paying out of pocket for these items, and Council Member
Holton believes it is a reasonable request that they be reimbursed up to $3,000.

Council Member Holton has met with House and Senate Appropriations staff over the past two
years, and as of the previous day $2. l million had been allocated to the Department of Justice for
a public safety training facility in Cottonwood Heights. No matching funds arc required. The
facility will offer de-escalation training, simulations, live fire, etc. He has obtained commitments
from citizens willing to donate the cost of any necessary infrastructure improvements. Chief Russo
reported that Murray charges $500 per day to use their training facility, so the facility will also be
a revenue source to cover maintenance and upkeep costs.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Council Member Holton clarified that the
training facility is modular, so no construction is required. The City will need to detennine an
appropriate location.

Council Member Newell thanked Council Member Holton for his efforts as it was not an easy task.

Council Member Birrell expressed confusion that it was done on behalf of the City but she had not
heard about it previously. Council Member Holton indicated that it had been discussed in the past.
In response to her question, he clarified that it was discussed as a gun range. It is a fully
encapsulated training facility that includes gun training, not a traditional outdoor gun range. He
wants to ensure that Cottonwood Heights has the best-trained officers in all areas, and the facility
has a remarkable focus on de-escalation. Ofii.cers are run through various de-escalation scenarios,
and the scenario adapts based on how the officer responds.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ __ __       _

                                                       20
Council Member Newell remarked that he has gone through FBI de-escalation training, and the
simulators do a phenomenal job. He believes it will be a great asset for the City.

Council Member Holton stated that the school district was vciy supportive of his efforts as the
facility will enhance the Guardian program by ensuring that they receive real training. Mayor
Bennion clarified that she spoke with the school district and they informed her that they were
neutral. lf the facility is available, they will use it, but they are also neutral on the Guardian
program. Council Member Holton stated that he received a letter from the superintendent
expressing full support.

Council Member Birrell stated that there needs to be transparency. She is a sitting Council member
but has never seen anything in writing about the facility. She learned about the gun range through
hearsay. She wants the most excellent training for Cottonwood Heights police officers. However,
she wants to ensure this is the appropriate avenue and the City is not taking on more O&M
expenses. She believes the item was advanced without thorough deliberation by the Council.

Council Member Holton stated that he began lobbying for the facility when he was first elected to
the City Council. Former city manager Tim Tingey was part of the effort, as was Mayor Wcichers
and Council Member Newell. Council Member Birrell asked to be provided with the meeting
minutes as she did not recall discussions on the matter. Her constituents have asked her for
transparency, accountability, and clarity. Council Member Holton stated that he was not asking
for City funding for the project. It will bring value to the police depmtment, and it is paid for.

Mayor Bennion asked if Council Member Holton had recommendations on a location for the
facility. Council Member Holton stated that ideas had been discussed over the past year, but that
decision is not in his purview. Mr. Gerber reported that a location has not been detem1incd.

Council Member Holton stated that the money has been awarded. If a Council member wanted to
put forward an action declining the funds, that it their prerogative. Council Member Birrell asked
that it be discussed in regular meeting and done with transparency. The Council believed there
would be no money attached to the sister city project, yet it was a $17,000 expense in 2025. She
would like to see a written proposal.

Council Member Holton stated that the sister cities expense was discussed at the last retreat. He
hoped that his Council colleagues could see the benefit of receiving funding to bring value to the
workforce and community without spending tax.payer resources. The Council talks about grants
all the time, but those often require matching funds. The federal government will pay for additional
training for the police department, and he does not understand how it could be controversial.

Council Member Holton remarked that he would hope his colleagues would acknowledge the
energy he put into securing the funding. When a Council member does something that brings
value, they should be complimented. Council Member Hyland did an incredible job of bringing
homes into the City, and he believes this is the smne. It was discussed and he spent two years
bring it to fruition. If the City Council wanted to vote against accepting $2.1 million to benefit the
police department, they could do so.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ __ _ _ _

                                                       21
In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Assistant Police Chief, Chris McHugh stated
that there are not a lot of training facilities in the area. A shooting range is much less expensive,
but they wanted to create a training environment for de-escalation and other training that ofli.cers
currently cannot participate in unless the City boffows the Attorney General's simulator, which is
very hard to obtain. The facility will bring training in-house and remove the department's
dependency on other cities' schedules. Murray's range has been closed for three months, and that
was the only available range in the area. The facility has been designed to provide flexibility and
make the agency better. He thanked Council Member Holton for his efforts and indicated that he
hopes the City approves the facility as it will improve the department and provide sister agencies
with access to training as well.

Mayor Bennion asked if there could be an opportunity to partner with another city that has
available land. Council Member Holton stated that the public safety world has been discussing
the facility, and multiple municipalities have reached out to Chief Russo. He has received calls
from members of Congress indicating that other municipalities were going after the funding.
Cottonwood Heights was currently spending money to train elsewhere. The facility will be paid
for, donations will cover any ancillary charges, and other municipalities will pay to rent the space.

Chief Russo expressed shock that anyone was unaware of the planned facility. They had conducted
presentations, and he had letters of support from the Attorney General and school district. Every
police chief in the Salt Lake Valley voted in support because there are no ranges in the area. If the
facility is located outside of Cottonwood Heights, the City will lose control of it. Their vision was
that it will be a community asset. He wants to open it to the public to train people on things like
gun safety. It would also be a revenue generator. Other municipalities will pay to use the facility,
which will cover ongoing upkeep costs. The facility has low maintenance costs.

In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, it was confinned that both virtual and live
ammunition will be used. Chief Russo stated that the facility Mayor Bennion attended the Citizens
Academy at is very different. In this facility, you fire live rounds at the simulator. It can also be
operated as a traditional gun range.

Assistant Chief McHugh reported that it is a fully contained, modified shipping container. The
Secret Service keeps a similar facility on the White House compound to qualify their guns. He
believes its biggest asset is that Cottonwood Heights police officers can be trained to a high level
of competence in all areas, and the scenario simulations will be used more than the shooting range.
If live ammunition is not needed, simulations can use a laser. It is a complete, wraparound system
unlike any in the state.

Council Member Newell stated that he is excited about the educational aspects of the facility. Utah
has an anned citizenry, but there is a lack of training. That type of education will be invaluable
for the populace.

Council Member Holton stated that he hoped to obtain a Council majority to direct Staff to locate
a space for the facility. If there is not a suitable location in the City, he agreed that the Council
should discuss other locations.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ _ __      _

                                                       22
Council Member Hyland expressed appreciation that the facility will be budget neutral. She was
not in support of withdrawing acceptance of the funds. She participated in a simulation and was
shocked at the level of psychological training required for de-escalation.

Assistant Chief McHugh stated that if there is an issue with an officer, they can immediately be
put into a training scenario to address the issue. Chief Russo added that when someone has an
unfortunate event, it can be duplicated in the simulator. That has been done in other cases, and it
completed changed the narrative. He asked that the Council not consider placing the facility in
other City. It is regional facility that nobody else has.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, it was clmified that the facility is 101 feet
long by 30 feet wide and contains six Janes, which is enough to train and qualify one shift. Chief
Russo stated that it may fit on the side of the building.

Council Member Hyland

Council Member Hyland reported that she has tried to bring revenue to the City, and as an
economist she knows that economic development brings revenue. Businesses create jobs, and jobs
allow families to take care of themselves. The City is at a pivotal point where it will miss
opportunities if it does not maintain focus. She requested that Cottonwood Heights not drag i ts
feet like Holladay did with the Cottonwood Mall redevelopment. They went many years without
revenue because of processes that bogged the redevelopment down. She applauded Council
Member Bin-ell for arranging the very product transportation meeting. The City needs to engage
pai1ners such as the WFRC and the Utah Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity.

As Commissioner Steinrnai1 pointed out, the acreage at the Gravel Pit is likely beyond a local
developer's scope, so Cottonwood Heights will need to attract a national developer. If the City
does not have the right staff in place and the right vision, opportunities will be missed. Those
opportunities will benefit residents by way oflower property taxes due to the increased sales taxes
and additional prope11y taxes. She understands that development requires increased services, but
it will result in a net benefit.

Council Member Hyland would like increased AI training and investment. A citizen recently told
her that they could not find Design Review Committee meeting minutes, and she defended Staff
by saying that they might not even have the nccessmy tools. AI can listen, transcribe, summarize,
and create a bulleted list of action items. Mr. Steinman sent her a summary and list of action items
from the Short-Tenn Rental Subcommittee meeting in less than two minutes. She believes these
kinds of tools will prevent the City from needing additional staff and provide more transparency
for citizens.

Council Member Hyland wants to ensure that the short-term rental policy compliance and
ordinance updates are completed in 2026. The City is potentially missing hundreds of thousands
of dollars in transit revenue taxes. Mayor Bennion remarked that if City ordinances hold short-
tenn rentals accountable, those that are not may choose to convert to long-tenn rentals. It will
have many positive impacts. Council Member Hyland indicated that other cities require long-tenn

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       23
rentals to register, which may be an inevitable part of what comes after the short-term rental
ordinance and compliance arc cleaned up.

Council Member Birrell asked what will be required to finalize the process. Mr. Spung reported
that Granicus is still gathering the data. They need to make decisions regarding enforcement.
Granicus can provide infonnation on noncompliance, but the City must detennine what it will do
with that infonnation. One challenge is that Cottonwood Heights is a criminal enforcement
jurisdiction, so civil penalties cannot he imposed. Council Member Holton stated that a bill will
be considered by the legislature that will prevent municipalities from regulating online platfo1ms,
b ut the language had been amended to somewhat protect local authority.

Mr. Spung stated that one question is whether Granicus can request that a listing be removed on
the City's behalf. They arc working to ensure that Granicus has the data it needs to provide
infonnation regarding unlicensed short-tenn rentals that it finds on third-pmty websites. They can
then detcnnine the scope of noncompliance and decide on next steps.

Mayor Bennion stated that she has been working on the issue for at least four years because
citizens are very concerned about how their neighborhoods are changing. She recommended that
Julie Davies start meeting with the working group to discuss ordinance changes that can be made.
Ms. Davies is an expert in helping cities avoid litigation regarding short-term rentals. Council
Member Hyland remarked that she and Council Member Birrell participated in a training with Ms.
Davies and were very impressed.

Council Member Hyland stated that she heard from Staff that they have reached out to other cities
that use Granicus but chose not to use their payment processing. It will be used as a compliance
tool, and licensing will still be paid through Xpress Bill Pay. Mr. Gerber cl arified that they are
working to move licensing online, which may be through a different platform. If the short-term
rental can be made legal, the process should be as easy as possible. Council Member Hyland stated
that it is all part of the transformation they had discussed. People expect to be able to do things in
one click, not to have to interact with the City three or four times to complete a process. She
supports Staff in having the tools to make things easy for themselves and customers.

Council Member Hyland remarked that it sounded like the City needs to discuss an Administrative
Law Judge and civi l penalties. However, the first step is to find out where the short-tenn rentals
are so they can determine how big the problem really is. ln response to her question, Mr. Spung
stated that the process should not take much longer to complete.

Council Member Newell

Council Member Newell expressed concern about the stormwater system inherited from the
County that is becoming dilapidated. Every time work is completed in the City, the infrastructure
is found to be falling apart. It is sometimes discovered by happenstance and other times because
of a break. It is important to ensure that the proper funding is in place to address the issue.

The City has a Stonnwater Fee, but the question is whether it is sufficient to cover the expense.
The broken pipe that was found during installation of the High-Intensity Activated Crosswalk

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       24
("HA WK") light at Bella Vista Elementary School cost over $40,000 to repair. Those incidents
will continue to occur, and the budget needs to be adjusted accordingly. Residents must understand
that the City wants to be able to provide the safe and viable infrastructure necessary for the
community to continue to thrive.

Mr. Shipp reported that the Stormwatcr Master Plan was under internal review prior to presentation
to the City Council. The fee will be reevaluated based on the plan. Some incidents are covered as
Acts of God, but sometimes the City must complete unplanned replacement projects like on
Pepper's Hill where S1 million in stonn drain lines were installed to stop issues at one house. The
infrastructure is dilapidated. It recently cost $300,000 to replace a pipe across King's Hill Drive.
The utility fee is a great benefit to the City and allocates dollars specifically to stormwater
infrastructure, and he appreciates the Council's support for the replacement effort.

Mayor Bennion expressed the Council's full support for the preventative work on the City' s stonn
drain infrastructure.

Council Member Birrell

Council Member Birrell stated that her priority regarding departmental deficiencies was discussed
earlier in the meeting. In her four years of service, she has come to believe that it would be
beneficial for the City to keep deliberations related to the budget and compensation in one
discussion rather than breaking it off into separate committees. The conversations need to be
comprehensive and publicly sighted. She believes the process should be changed and all meeting
be held publicly.

Mayor Bennion asked if it is common among other cities to have these discussions in public City
Council meetings. Mr. Gerber stated that in his experience, briefings and individual discussions
happen prior to deliberation of the budget at a public meeting.

Council Member Binell stated that at the spring Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT")
meeting, she was in a breakout session on budgets with approximately 50 representatives of other
municipalities. She asked if any of those cities deliberated on these topics in separate private
meetings between two Council members. The only other person in the room who indicated that
they do so was from a township. She intends to bring more transparency to the process.

Mr. Gerber asked if the other cities have multiple meetings focused on the budget. In other cities
he has worked in, the budget is simply presented to the Council because they do not have the same
level of interaction and involvement as the Cottonwood Heights City Council. Council Member
BiITell stated that in a strong-mayor govenunent, the mayor creates the budget and the council
deliberates on it. Even though Cottonwood Heights has a different fonn of government, she
believes it is the same idea of the deliberations being publicly sighted.

Mr. Topham agreed that the entire Council needs to have a chance to study, weigh in, and vote on
the budget. He did not have an opinion on how the initial budget is generated but indicated that
there likely needs to be preliminary work groups to formulate the budget that is eventually
presented to the Council for consideration.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       25
Mr. Gerber remarked that not many cities involve the council in those preliminary steps.
Cottonwood Heights brings the Council in early and provides them with a chance to sit on the
committee. The issue with bringing the discussion into an open meeting every time is that they
are discussing ideas, not actions. That is not appropriate for public discussion because it can
needlessly hurt overall morale, start rumors, etc. Staff develops budgets in other cities that the
Council spends one or two meetings deliberating on.

Council Member Newell stated that he enjoys the City's process as it helps him better understand
the budget and allows the Council to interject and share their knowledge.

Council Member Holton stated that there is not enough time to dive as deep in Council meetings
as at committee meetings. He sees value in the committee meetings, but he believes they should
have some beating on the final budget. In the past, committees would have an in-depth discussion
that did not end up affecting the budget. He recommended that committees present a report of
their findings to the Council. However, he did not have an issue with the overall process.

Mr. Gerber stated that a Citizen Committee could be part of the process. However, he does not
believe brainstom1ing sessions should be held in a public forum because the ideas considered in
those sessions may be misconstrued.

Ms. Higgins stated that since she and Mr. Gerber had to speak with department heads about the
budget being so tight, employees are very nervous. The City already has a very high turnover rate,
and she would like to prevent people from leaving before there is cause for panic.

Mayor Bennion thanked everyone for the discussion. She recommended that other options be
considered in future years, but the current year's discussion should retain the existing fonnat.

Council Member Hyland suggested that the Council representative for the Budget Committee
should also sit on the Citizen Committee. She would prefer to sit on those committees than the
Compensation and Benefits Committee. Council Member Birrell stated that she would also prefer
to sit on the Budget Committee. After discussion, it was decided that Council Member Hyland
and Council Member BiITell would sit on the Budget Committee. Council Member Newell and
Council Member Holton will sit on the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Mr. Gerber asked
that the Council fon.vard any budget requests to him within two weeks.

After discussion, the CoLtm:il decided to reduce its travel and training budget. Council Member
Holton recommended removing the City Council from employee compensation discussions. Mr.
Topham clarified that the compensation schedule for City officers, which includes elected officers,
includes an automatic adjustment tied to the employee cost-of-living increase.

6.      Wrap Up and Future Retreat

The next Budget Retreat was to be held on Tuesday, March 24, 2026, from 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.rn.

The City Council Retreat adjourned at 2:23 p.rn.

City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       26
l hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record ofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Council Retreat held Saturday, .lanumy 24, 2026.


TerL For~e.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____ _ __ __




City Council Retreat Minutes of January 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       27
              Appendix 3

           STAFF REPORT

Public Safety Firearms Training Facility

             Jared Gerber
Jared Gerber

From:                             Robby Russo
Sent:                             Tuesday, February 10, 2026 2:04 PM
To:                               Meyers, Connor; Jared Gerber
Cc:                               Matt Holton District1; matt@spencerstokes.com
Subject:                          RE: [EXT:]Wasatch Front Regional Public Safety Firearms Training Facility



Mr. Meyers,

Thank you and Congressman Mike Kennedy for your assistance and patience in helping secure this funding. It will
support essential training opportunities for local, state, and federal agencies along the Wasatch Front.
Cottonwood Heights is sincerely grateful for your team's partnership and continued support.

E. Robby Russo

From: Meyers, Connor <Connor.Meyers@mail.house.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, February 10, 2026 1:53 PM
To: Robby Russo <RRusso@ch.utah.gov>
Cc: Matt Holton Districtl <Districtl@ch .uta h .gov>
Subject: [EXT:]Wasatch Front Regional Pub lic Safety Firearms Training Facility

Hi Chief Russo,

On behalf of Congressman Kennedy, I would like to share that we have secured $2,100,000 for
Cottonwood Heights' Wasatch Front Regional Public Safety Firearms Training Facility in the FY26 funding
bill that congress passed. The DOJ should be in touch with you on next steps for obligating the funding
through their OJP-Byrne account.

Congratulations and please do not hesitate to reach out for anything. We are happy to help coordinate as
the Administration works on reaching out.

Best,
Connor


Connor Meyers
Deputy Chief of Staff I Legislative Director
Congressman Mike Kennedy, M.D. (UT-03)
1626 Longworth House Office Building

Cell: 425-275-2965




                                                             1
   Funded by a $2.1
        Million
    Congressional
    J-\ppropriation


 Received $2.1 million Congressional
           Appropriation                • Regional Live Fire and
Supports modern, immersive firearms
             training                     Scenario Training Facility
Enhances officer readiness and public
               safety
Allows year-round training regardless
             of weather
Reduces long-term ammunition and
    range maintenance costs
   Can be used for community and
  interagency training partnerships
 Wa·s1a t·ch Front Re g::., 1



Safety Firearms Trai-           7



                                    -~




             Chief E. Robby Russo
                                    tottonwood Heights
                                     L1.ty betwten rhe amyom



United States Congressman Dr. Mike Kennedy
1626 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20515

April 14, 2025

Dear Congressman Kennedy,

The City of Cottonwood Heights is requesting a Fiscal Year 2026 Community Project
Funding request for the Wasatch Front Regional Public Safety Firearms Training
Facility, a request for Police Equipment and Technology Acquisition located at the
Cottonwood Heights Public Works Yard on 3000 E 6900 South. These funds are
intended to be used in Fiscal Year 2026.

We certify that this project is a good use of taxpayer dollars because of the increased
pressures on local law enforcement due to increased flow of weapons, drugs and
criminal migrants that have come across our nations borders, making their way into our
communities. The use of these funds will provide much needed public safety training,
ensuring that public safety entities across the Wasatch Front are prepared for the
dangers that they must face in order to protect the millions of Utahns who reside in our
state.

We certify that we are en eligible recipient of these funds as a city government.

This CPF request will support the $4,775,000 expense for a proper number of training
lanes to allow for greater access to the thousands of public safety officers in the area as
well as a high level of technology to allow for simulated and live fire options along with
deescalation tactics and scenarios.

In the event that the CPF request is only partially funded, we will downsize the capacity/
lanes and technology of the facility.

Below is a detailed budget describing how the requested CPF funds will be used:

- Acquisition of modular firing range units. A total of 4 units that total 8 training
  lanes. This allows for live fire without any need for construction costs, a true
  equipment purchase. - $4,230,000

- Technology upgrade - $545,000

      - Provides the capability of choosing live fire or simulated fire.

      - Allows for virtual reality scenario based training.
        - Allows for adaptation to real life scenarios of the day with an emphasis on de-
          escalation tactics.

The following entities are directly involved, impacted, or benefit by this project:

   •     Cottonwood Heights Police Department - Sponsor

   •     Draper City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for their
         department.

   •     Granite School District Police Department - Support role to receive greater
         training for their department.

   •     Herriman City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for
         their department.

   •     Murray City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for their
         department.

   •     Riverton City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for
         their department.

   •     Salt Lake City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for
         their department.

   •     Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office - Support role to receive greater training for
         their department.

   •     Sandy City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for their
         department.

   •     Saratoga Springs/Bluffdale City Police Department - Support role to receive
         greater training for their department.

   •     South Jordan City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training
         for their department.

   •     South Salt Lake City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training
         for their department.

   •     Taylorsville City Police Department - Support role to receive greater trainlng for
         their department.

    •    Unified Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for their
         department.

    •    University of Utah Police Department - Support role to receive greater training
         for their department.
    •   Utah Highway Patrol - Support role to receive greater training for their
        department.

    •   UTA Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for their
        department.

    •   West Jordan City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for
        their department.

    •   West Valley City Police Department - Support role to receive greater training for
        their department.

    •   Canyons School District - Support role in to receive training opportunities for the
        guardians as requi red by the state.

This project has a strong federal nexus, supporting the mission of DOJ COPS
Technology and Equipment projects and programs, as listed under section 1701 (b)(8} of
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. § 10381(b)(8))

We acknowledge and support the public release of this letter and this project request.
We understand that submission of this project request to your office does not guarantee
the award of full or partial funding.

Thank you for considering this project request.

~ t<Y~
CHIEF RUSSO
  .--tl .I/ v . \
.-;;v/ •///t//')- --'   --.J

MAYOR MIKE WEICHERS


   ~/~
COUNCILMAN MATT HOLTON
     WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL PUBLIC SAFETY FIREARMS TRAINING FACILITY




                                         INTRODUCTION


The Cottonwood Heights Police Department is located on the east bench of the Salt Lake

Metropolitan Area, between Big Cottonwood and Little Cottonwood Canyons.


The police departments in this area serve the majority of Utah's popu lation. A shooting range is

crucial for law enforcement officers to maintain and enhance their shooting skills, especially in

high-stress situations like shootouts or hostage rescues. Regular practice at a shooting range

helps officers improve their accuracy, reaction times, and muscle memory. This training is vital

for ensuring officers can effectively respond to dangerous situations and minimize collateral

damage. Firearms training is an essential part of modern law enforcement, encompassing

various aspects of a force continuum. While proficiency and accuracy are crucial in suburban

areas, there are other important aspects to serving the community. The request is for a facility

that provides resources for de-escalation, non-lethal force, and public order unit training. This

facility includes a unique "shoot-don't shoot" component, which is not a video simulator but a

live fire training with a scene projected on an impact wall that tracks rounds fired and projectile

trajectories.


Furthermore, a police shooting range offers a controlled setting for officers to practice with

different firearms and shooting techniques. By replicating real-life scenarios and utilizing various

targets, officers can improve their decision-making abilities and learn to adapt to changing

circumstances. Regular training at a shooting range also allows officers to become more

acquainted with their weapons, understand their capabilities, and build confidence in their

marksmanship skills. In general, a public safety shooting range is a crucial tool for law
enforcement agencies to ensure that their officers are well-prepared and capable of handling

any potential threats they may face while on duty.


Unfortunately, in today's world, law enforcement officers must be ready to respond to a range of

situations, including the unthinkable scenario of an active shooter in a school. Training is

essential, yet there are limited or inadequate facilities available to adequately prepare officers

and provide the necessary tools for training to save lives and uphold the level of competency

expected by society.


The proposed facility would be a valuable resource for multiple agencies, not only to meet

legislative requirements but also to achieve the desired outcome for governmental risk

management.


                                        SPECIFICATIONS


The proposed facility is a modular metal structure made up of tour sections manufactured at a

vendor's facility and then assembled on-site. The tactical trainer is constructed with layers of

ballistic steel plating and rubber sheeting for ballistics and soundproofing purposes. It is

equipped with a modern lead recovery system, OSHA-approved venting systems, and

soundproofing measures up to a distance of five feet on the exterior. The completed facility will

be made up of eight 25-yard lanes as well as a control room to monitor and review activity. It

includes lane dividers, target presentation hardware, and a climate-controlled environment. This

permanent steel building can accommodate all standard police handgun calibers (9mm, .40,

and .45) and rifle rounds (.223 and .556) up to a .308 caliber.
                                      REQUESTED FUNDING


There are various vendors who specialize in firearm train ing facilities across the nation. As we

have thoroughly researched, visited manufactures, and negotiated pricing, a median price for an

8 lane range with the necessary technology is $4,775,000.


                                          SITE LOCATION


The preferred site location is the Cottonwood Heights Public Works Yard on 3000 E 6900 South.

This state-of-the-art facility, is situated in an industrial area next to the Utah Department of

Transportation (UDOT) lot and property owned by Rocky Mountain Power. The semi-secluded

facility is enclosed by a security fence with controlled access, an indoor classroom, restrooms,

and access to utilities.
                               COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS

                     POLICE DEPARTMENT

Michael ,-veichers
    Mayor

                                               •-  I~.

                                                      .
                                                          .
                                                              .                      E. Robhy Russo
                                                                                           Chief




   United States Congressman Dr. Mike Kennedy
   1626 Longworth House Office Building
   Washington, D.C 20515

   April 10, 2025

   Dear Congressman Kennedy,

   The Cottonwood Heights Police Department, situated on the east bench of the Salt Lake
   Metropolitan Area between Big Cottonwood and Little Cottonwood Canyons, established its own
   police department in 2008 with a vision to provide a level of service reminiscent of a bygone era.
   Our goal is to be a leading organization in Utah's law enforcement community, focusing on
   community policing and administrative services. We are dedicated to protecting and serving the
   community through proactive, comprehensive, and cost-effective law enforcement in
   collaboration with the community. To achieve this, we uphold a set of principles and core values
   that guide our enforcement of the law and delivery of humanitarian services aimed at promoting
   community peace through proactive and solution-oriented policing.

   Ensuring the professional competence and safety of our officers is a top priority, especially in
   today's complex world with civil unrest, the threat of fentanyl, illegal immigration that has led to
   gang activity in our community, and our unique location at the crossroads of two internationally
   renowned canyons hosting four world-class ski resorts attracting 5.4 million visitors annually.

   A shooting ra nge is essential for law enforcement officers to maintain and enhance their
   shooting skills, particularly in high-stress situations like shootouts or hostage rescues. Regular
   practice at a shooting range helps officers improve their accuracy, reaction times, and muscle
   memory, crucial for effective response and minimizing collateral damage in dangerous
   situations.

   While proficiency in shooting is vital, other aspects of community service such as de-escalation,
   non-lethal force, and public order unit training are equally important. As the police chief, we
   have fostered a strong partnership with the community, which comes with expectations.
   Elected officia ls, School Board Members, and Religious organizations demand that officers
   receive the necessary training and tools to address th reats to schools , children , workplaces, and
   places of worship effectively.



               2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Suite B   Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121    (801) 944-7100
A shooting range provides a controlled environment for officers to practice with different firearms
and techniques, enhancing decision-making abilities and adaptability in real-life scenarios.
Regular training at a shooting range familiarizes officers with their weapons, capabilities, and
boosts confidence in marksmanship skills. Overall, a police shooting range is a critical tool for
ensuring officers are well-prepared to handle potential threats they may encounter while on duty.

My expectation is that officers are prepared to respond to any situation, including the
unthinkable scenario of an active shooter in a school. However, there are limited facilities
available to adequately prepare officers and provide the necessary tools for training to save
lives and meet society's competency expectations

The proposed facility would be a valuable resource for multiple agencies, meeting legislative
requirements and enabling collaboration to respond to catastrophic incidents in a unified
manner without delay or hesitation, as seen in other tragedies nationwide.

Supplemental information:
         1. The recipient of this appropriation is the City of Cottonwood Heights Police
Department, located within Salt Lake County, State of Utah.
        2. The request pertains to a firearms training range, with an anticipated 8 lanes due to
the specific nature and requirements of the training. An incremental approach may be
impractical as the proposal is significantly smaller than an industry standard 20-25 stall facility,
which allows for a cohesive training experience for entire departments. The number of lanes
requested is necessary to accommodate the hours of instruction and practice, as well as the
logistical need for consistent training of groups across our state. Additionally, the space should
be sufficient to allow for training aids, such as a vehicle, and accommodate the unique training
requirements of specialty units, like a Public Order Unit.
        3. The gun range will be housed in prefabricated building(s), to be delivered to an
existing secure yard with necessary facilities and utilities. No federal funds will go towards any
construction as no additional construction or renovation is needed for functionality.
        4. We have had conversations with Senator Curtis, but we are unsure if they are
making a request on our behalf.
        5. The physical location of the project is within the incorporated city limits of
Cottonwood Heights, Salt Lake County, State of Utah.




E. Robby Russo, Chief




            2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Suite B   Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121   (801) 944-7100
United States Congressman Dr. Mike Kennedy
1626 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20515
Date: April 16, 2025
Subject: Appropriation for Cottonwood Heights Shooting Range


Dear Congressman Kennedy,

Tam writing on hchalforthe Valley Police Alliance (VPA), which represents eleven municipal law
enforcement agencies within the Salt Lake County Metropolitan area. Since the initial establishment
of the VPA, eight additional metropolitan, transit, special district, and state law en forcemcnt agencies
have also informally joined the alliance to aUend meetings and share information and resources. Our
alliance serves a diverse population of 1.2 million citizens and is responsible for 60 percent of police
service calls ,vithin the State of Utah.

In today's complex world, ensuring the professional competence and safety or our officers is essential ,
especially in one of the fastest growing slates in the country. Our officers face unique challenges such
as civi I unrest and the fonlanyl crises, which pose risks to our communities. The Salt Lake area is
experiencing issues that were once only found in larger metropoli tan areas.

As administrators tasked with preserving our quality of life and maintaining public safety, we
unanimously support the proposed shooting range project for congressional appropriation by the City
of Cottonwood II eights. Shooting proficiency is crucial for law enforcement officers, particularly in
high-stress situations. Regular practice al a shooting range helps officers improve their accuracy,
reaction times, and muscle memory. All of which arc vital for effective response and min imizing
collateral damage in dangerous scenarios.

While shooting skills arc important, other aspects of community policing, such as de-escalation,
non-lethal force, and public order unit training, are equally significant. As police chiefs in the Greater
Salt Lake area, we frequently collaborate and support each other in critical situations. A shooting
range provides a controlled environment for officers to practice with different fircanns and
techniques, enhancing their decision-making abilities and ac\aptabilily in real-life scenarios.

The Valley Police Association stands in support of an appropriation f<.w this much needed regional
resource. \Ve commend your efforts in promoting public safety for the citizens of the 3rd
Congressional District and the State or Utah.

Respectfully,


Valley Police Alliance (VPA)
((o)
                                                           STATE OF UTAH
                                                     OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY (iENERAL




                                                          DEREK E. BROWN
                                                               ATTORNEY GENERAL

    Mark E. Burns                   Daniel Burton                  Douglas Crapo           Stanford E. -Purser          Stewart M. Young
C1vd De:pllly AUmney General   Chief Deputy Attorney Genaral      Can$umer Protection         Sol1c1 tor Gener,jl   Cnmm.ll Deputy AUorn~y G~'1erat
                                    & General Cout'l~el          Deputy Attorney Gene,al




     U.S. Congressman Dr. Mike Kennedy
     Utah's 3rd Congressional District
     1626 Longworth House Office Building
     Washington, D.C. 205 I 5

     April 13, 2025

     Dear Congressman Kennedy,

     Thank you for your service and leadership on many crucial issues facing America. It is an
     honor to work with you to protect our state and local communities. I am writing to express
     my full support for a federal appropriation to fund the construction of a police training
     facility in the City of Cottonwood Heights.

     This facility would serve agencies within the 3rd Congressional District, allowing officers
     to adequately prepare and receive necessary training to save lives and preform their jobs
     well. Cottonwood Heights Police Chief Robby Russo would be a strong steward to oversee
     initial implementation of this range. He is highly respected by his peers, by those who work
     under his command, and by those whom he serves.

     Law enforcement agencies along the \Vasatch Front are in urgent need of firearms ranges
     that provide a controlled setting for officers to practice various shooting techniques and on
     diverse targets. This range would allow officers to simulate real-life scenarios and improve
     decision-making abilities in a safe environment.

     As the Attorney General, I understand the importance of providing officers, troopers,
     deputies, agents and other LE personnel with the tools and resources they need to
     effectivt:ly carry out their duties and ensure public safety.

     In the AG's Office, we have a statewide, cutting edge VIRTRA simulator system lo help
     train law enforcement on de-escalation of violence, proper use of force, and navigation of
     life and death situations. But, as effective as this program is, and as you well know from
     your extensive experience in the shooting industry, nothing can substitute for live firearms
     training in many ways.



              UTAH STATE CAPITOL• 350 NORTH STATE STREET, STE. 230 • P.O. BOX 142320, SALT LAKE CITY, UT B4114-2320 •
                                         TELEPHONE. (801) 538-9600 • FAX : (801) 538-1121
A modem firearms range would enable officers to regularly practice and enhance their
marksmanship skills, ultimately benefiting both officers and the public.

I urge you to consider the significant benefits that a police firearms range would bring to the
3rd District and to support the appropriation request. Thank you for your attention to this
matter.

Sincerely,




Derck Brown
Utah Attorney General
                                Superintendent Dr. Rick Robins
      ~~     ~
                                9150 S. 500 West Sandy, UT 84070
                                T: 801,826-SOOO I r-: 801-826-505::i I www.canyonsdistrict.org
      CANYONS
      ~("1!001. Ol~TRr( T




United States Congressman Dr. Mike Kennedy
1626 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D.C. 20515



The Cottonwood Heights Police is seeking federal funding for a shooting range that wou ld
benefit the Canyons School District in training School "Guardians'' is a crucial step in ensuring
the safety and security of students and teachers in Utah schools. By having access to a
dedicated shooting range, these school guardians will be able to receive proper training and
practice necessary skills to effectively respond to an active shooter situation. This specialized
training will not only increase the effectiveness of these individuals in protecting schools, but it
will also instill confidence and readiness in their ability to handle such threats.

Furthermore, having a shooting range accessible for training school guardians will also promote
collaboration and coordination between law enforcement and the school dist rict. By partnering
with law enforcement agencies, the Canyons School District can ensure that their school
guardians receive the most up-to-date and comprehensive training available. This partnership
will not only enhance the overall safety measures in place at schools, but it will also serve as a
model for other districts to follow, ultimately creating a safer and more secure env·ironrnent for
students and staff statewide as envisioned by HB84.

Sincerely,




Dr. Rick Robins
                                              Susan Edwards
Superintendent
                                              Public Engagement Coordinator
Canyons School District
                                              Canyons School District
                                     Cottonwood Heights
                                      City between the canyons




April 15, 2025




RE: Police Training Shooting R,rngc Funding

To Whom It May Concern:

As Mayor and Councilman of the city of Cottonwood Heights, I intimately understand fhe need
to have a police force that is properly trained. Our officers arc often put into harms way and
need to feel comfortable with holding and operating a firearm.

This is why we support the need for our department to have a shooting range that can be
accessed at all times. The ability to train ancl to become an expert with a gun enhances the
ability not to make mistakes \vhcn dealing with many of the challenging real-life situations our
officers see during duty.

A shooting range within Cottonwood Heights would also allow us to be good neighbors to other
municipalities to come and train their officers.

We appreciate any consideration to help us achieve this important goal of having our officers be
the best trained in our State.




Councilman Matt Holton




                     2277 East Bengal BlvJ. Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121
                         Ciry Hall: (801) 944-7000 Fax: (801) 944..7005
                                ,vww.co non woo<lheigh rs. utah. gov
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                    POLICE DEPARTMENT
Michael Weichers                                                                       E. Robby Russo
    Mayor                                                                                      Chief




                                               April 30, 2024



  U.S. Representative John R. Curtis
  Utah's 3rd Congressional District
  3549 North University Avenue Suite 275
  Provo, UT 84604


         RE: Appropriation for Cottonwood Heights Shooting Range/Response for Supplemental
         Information



  Dear Representative Curtis,



  I have supplied the requested details regarding the Cottonwood Heights COPS l echnology and
  Equipment project. I'm hopeful the information provided fulfills your requirements and meets
  your expectations.


     1. The 1-ecipient of this appropriation is the City of Cottonwood Heights Police Department,
        located within Salt Lake County, State of Utah.
     2. The request pertains to a firearms training range, with an anticipated 6-8 lanes due to t he
        specific nature and requirements of the training. An incremental approach may be
        impractical, the proposal is significantly smaller than a standard 20-25 stall facilily. The
        footprint requested range is necessary to accornmodate t he hours of instruction and
        practice, as well as the logistical need for consistent training of groups. Additionally, the
        space should be sufficient to allow for training aids, such as a vehicle, and accommodate
        the unique training requirements of specialty units, like a Public Order Unit.
     3. The gun range will be housed in prefabricated building(s), to be delivered to an existing
        secure yard with necessary facilities and utilities. No federal funds will go towards any
        construction as no additional construction or renovation is needed for functionality
     4. A request is NOT being made by any other member of Congress.
     5. The physical location of the project is within the incorporated city limits of Cottonwood
        Heights, Salt Lake County, State of Utah.



               2277 E. Bengal Blvd,, Suite B   Cottonwood Heights, UT 81121   (801) 944-7100
Please don't hesitate to contact my office if you need further information. I sincerely appreciate
your dedication to law enforcement and our safe schools project.




Sincerely,


i:1?~
CC. Mr. Jake Bornstein
   Mr. Cory Norman




2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Suite B          Cottomvood Heights, UT 84 l 21             (801) 944-7100
                      Proposal: Regional Modular Shooting Range
Location: Cottonwood Heights, Utah

Executive Summary
This proposal outlines the planned acquisition and implementation of a modular shooting
range designed to support regional law enforcement, school districts, and public safety
agencies throughout the Wasatch Front This modern facility will enhance tactical readiness,
firearm proficiency, and scenario-based response training-while offering a cost-effective,
scalable solution through prefabricated modular construction, eliminating the need for
permanent infrastructure.

Project Description
The proposed facility will feature eight individual 25-yard shooting lanes, housed within
modular units that are manufactured off-site and assembled locally. This modular approach
minimizes site disruption, accelerates deployment timelines, and allows for future expansion
or relocation.

Key Features
- Modular construction with eight fully enclosed 25-yard lanes

- State-of-the-art HVAC systems ensuring clean air and comfort

- Integrated tactical lighting, including dirnmable and low-light simulation

- Centralized command and control center for safety and efficiency

- Use-of-force live fire simulation technology

- Two-way communication and public address system

- Secured weapons and ammunition storage vault


Cost Breakdown
-
Ll!11111• •   , -:i
                                                  '"
                                                                         ,............ ~,n
                                                                                -
Individual Range Modules (4 sections, 2 lanes each; includes lead cont inment, air filtration,~il4Bdb!,Gs
Advanced Control Room - Technology                                                            $172,151
Scenario Dimmable Lighting                                                                     $42,000
Two-Way Communication/ PA System                                                               $24,875
Master Control Computer                                                                        $42,489
Target Control System                                                                         $107,000
Use-of-Force Live Fire Simulator - Technology                                                 $330,360
Weapons and Ammunition Vault                     $26,000
Shipping and Delivery                            $48,000
Safety Equipment                                 $10,94 1
Noise Control Barriers/ Compliance Equipment     $25,000
Total Estimated Cost                           $4,775,000
                   -
                ~


               M
               .,,,,¥
                      MILC




SHOOTI NG RANGE & LIVE FIRE
TRAIN I NG SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
 -
t::! MIL □
lJlLO U·,..e, farmE:•r:y Shoorn,g Ran~-= lndLI:.tr:~s, LLC "SRI" is a (Jl◊'l")t:i (.lrL)VldoS'-' G~ stc:rn•o~4ne-art shooting range & l:·.1c~firn-
~rninir.g sys~~ms & solution':i. \Ne are the o,ig:n~l lnr-r,;,·v;:i:crs ot -:h~ mod1Jlar prc-f□ bric;;;~eC shco~Ins, r,,ngi::! and i;l:e the ba:ii;)
of clG!s1gn icr 1ndu~try stcind'-:1rds. fc,r live-fi~e range~ world·.·1·ije. Al~Qf t:?e products displayed ,:-. rJUr lileri3tl1re i!nd w~b;;ite
M~ ~,ctL.'al -proC:ucts d12lhorGd to c .... s:.om~~s, not just a con::F:"p: or ~,rtist ,endL:1011_·wr:: ;;ire ~Is'? the c;n~y rt1ng~ cor.1pc.r.y tc
rl'l<:1nuf,:1,.::t.:.1re ,Elli ow 11ro(Juct~. fncludn; all sti:Glwcrks. elecrnca!. and HVAC syslexi::.. :n-housc--c,1Jr corn::ietitors do not-this
:t1,:1l<es us e1 on~ SIOp shop for 1111 y..:iur sh::iot;ng range neeC::s. We have the ~:w;p~rie,ncl:! and bcc<;iround to dc.-.slqr, and build
a::ustorn products depending rm .;us•.0Iti,e: dem:1nd ,-,r'ld r.eeds.

 O·...!1 ex:0er~Ise in s:--.oo!ln('.; r-0nge d~sIgn cam!::iined with -our lnnovc,ti•;e Sh0virr'\g range m1uip~ent & ca::co:;.:.oric~ rnce:s
u·--e grov;ir11;; d~na;iC:s f,::,r tocli$:y·s shoo1Ing rtm;ie Indust1y. Since 1 s,93_ 1he Principles. of Mi!_O lluve bec--n dI<c::t\1 1r:.1al·nd
'!"'Ith designing, manuf,'lcturIn~, c'"d m~talh'"lg over 80◊ d1rfeten"';" bn-::k anC m~rt2r ran;ie5 clnd r.-ve( 180- 11!.d1v1du.al 111C(!ulM
:;;1ooting rQnl;iF.- 'SysterT'IS.
                                                                                                                                                                   -         -

               MI      Mll OLIVE
               ....,__ SHOOTING RANGES

                                                                                           -                                    -
-                                                  ~                           ~                       ..   . -   .•   - - •-   .·   -   -   - -   '.   -   -   -- - . . .   - . --   . -   .   .   -   . -


         SHOOTlr--JG RAr~GE
         & l.lVE-- FIRF TRAINING SYST EMS
         We o:"fe., :;..•m-~ey scl11t1ons for hvc-f:re Lr.-11nin9 req...1irG!r"le.-:t.5-~
         c.cn: :n~:c;i,:11 o~r-,he-s11Qli. :n:>dl,lc'lr range syst-e-1ns en91nc-c,fe-::J wi:h
         1OG% ball1~tic cont,j!1~1nent Our mod..;lt1r rCH~g~s a:nv~ complete,
         w1:h o~e Ian~ or ex;::.and-;'lt,l,e w,th as n·.:1:•y lanP-s tEi your C·(Qanizatf::ir,
         ·equ:r,:::·s :o .1:ee: m1ss:on tra1r.1ng r€Qt.!1rements. Mof.it o·ga.'11z~ti::in:'::
         orcH ,c - 1 ~ lan~s Ranges Ctln bE conflgur1c:d to~ ·mde-:Jf~en
         ta-::.:bcc1r t.·a1.1in!=) lil/Ot.=l ~RE:-acly Range •:)O V;:irlc1nt) with CLISIQrn la:i.::-
         w1dth~ per op':;'r,}'.C')( requirencn~s. ~1:::e, c-on~1gur,v:or. ccrr,cs
     comp e(e w1H1 ShCJ-:it1rig stalls, t.:1r9E:!t retrie'.'Ol ;;yst?.ms, bu!lct tr~ps,
     prcgrar-,r,ablo lighting, H\/AC. c1c filtrc;tl1Jn systems,



         ORIGIN A L INHOVATORS
         W~ .are :he or1g1r.~I ii1no•.,,91::,r3 of true- rrodul,9: shoo:1ng rti,:~e
         syslerr.~. Oi..r sy::;tems c1re :::les:g,cd ro rnpl;ic:.·e- 1.h,e brick ,1nJ mortar
         0r V-ILCO'\! .::lroJects typical·y (eq~dr-::>c1 wh~n b:...iklhg a r~r~Je.
         OLJ! nl'..Jc'ular rc;ngl?s ,;5e rr1·,irnal moving PHtS. anc' in-::liv fd1.1c1:
         bullet t.·ap syste1ns. l..'n-:1ke -:onpetfto( m.'"s;es. or,y ona l.:in!3' ir, 0L1r
         MILO L:ve mocl-:.ilar rang~ will need lo ShL1t dowr 1n th!:! event of~
         ::iy~te-m tc.:lura. I\H otlll::'( lar1es wi.l r,:,rr:aln op@,,rt1l10:oal, making :.-,-◊•Jr
         r;;:in~e L1pt1me fc,r :.u:~..is.:; -ar.y compet1tcrs' product o~ d~s.,gn£
         Y::iw c1..:ston range can be delivered 3nd o;i•!Uo,lfcnal 1n a~ little .JS
         o;io c.--1ys.



     MODULAR RAr~GE PRODUCTS
     R2ady Ri:lnge"
     ::r:,rn:r.er::ia! a~-:1 lcw c,n;cr:::emer1t live-fire training s::ilution

     Modular Cor1t.:1in~nzc-C Small Arms Tr-c'lining s~t fMCSATS«}
     Millt:;ty l1ve~~1re h1ining s:::ilution



    11
                                                                                                     -                                                                                                                                               .

        .::,. I BENE~ITS OF
        Q       MODULAR RANGES

-   -       -   -                 -   -           -           -    -   - - _ _•   '          -   •       -   -   --   -   -   -    -       -   -     -   • -   -   •~   •   I   •   _.   •    -             :    --- -         •   -•         •.         •    -   ~               -              -   ~    =       .       .       -   - .    _..,   '




                    AFF0R D,\Sl.E                                                                                                                                                            EX1°AN D,0..131.E

            $       SIg'."'.ifica::itly redL.:ce pre-rnnstrnct::::in i...:pf::im cost-you w:I'. s.:ivc 'Jco:h t::re cind :r.-:iney :1 ;-:J ;ivcfc.
                    ?.ngfneering . ..:irchl:ac.ture~ extensi \1P, sr~e ~Jl;innTng, on(I construcli-8in rr..ana,g~inE:!nl Tss.~:es ·,~hen jCll
                    pur-:hase a MILO L:vE rrod-Jlc.r :--.ange
                                                                                                                                                                                             The e;:g1ne:er-ed de>ii;;n al~ows for f:':,o::l'.)Cl ....~lon f~o:"11 4G :o 1::0-3 F.ee-t 1n :e-ngt.., cind (lne nr more st100Ling
                                                                                                                                                                                             la1·,e~. R;inges c3_;, be· cust:3r.,izcd 3nc ;:c,,:-,figL:re-::1 lO F.!XfJt.::1c- wTlh yoL; budget and trc.'.ri:1.g needs.




                    CONVcNIEN,
                                                                                                                                                                                             FLEXIBLE


                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                             Your Jud,;:_irncr,i and ti~earrr-5- ~ra1r"ilng is n(l longer limit.gd to outs1::le l1gt-:t1ng con(l11n1,$ Low light .fln(I
                    Ellrn!r.ci~e training l1n1it.;nior,s bcl':iP.:cl 1Jn 1ncor:venie:-.1 tral:llri.g loca.lions, iirn··ted cperc1t:on l1rr>&$, or                                            11ightlime ;:;,ceoe-.-:(l con(.[fliom, c.an be :;in,ul~teC at C:'"!Y li1r-,e. d,;iy or ni ;;il1t, Our rr,o:::lular ranges C3~
                    we.,·1:l1eI: WILD ~Ivc Modu'.ar rc:n~e-s i"l!P. P·,G unlIm·:12d. c.1nyt1.T1E:· l1ve-firn tr~inir,g sclut1on Our rncdular
                                                                                                 0                                                                                           b8 cor,f:Q·~··ed with :nult1;JI~ lightinti sr.e--~.mio:; w ith the ~ouch of~ bullo:·., Add1tiar,s ~~1r.h -?l!i palk:e
                    r,·Jrge5 c.a.1 be pla-::::cd ulrno:;t anyw ►-e,-2 with lIt:le 5:IC! preparntbn                                                                                           l1ghi t.ars. !:.ri1oke machine;;, so:::en\ g,;merntars. ar.d ri,cry othP.r c;;stor.-1 op:1ons can creal':' i! reali!.tic
                                                                                                                                                                                             f1tma:;p'.·.-..·rG:- 1n your livt!-firi: training i;t'.:i th-;1 wrirld e'101\1oi and you: r,eeds c;ha:ise




                    ECO··FR!EtJOLY
                    OSHA. NIOSH. einc EPA re:gLllat1c;r.-s for air c..:ual1:y arC' met witi-. every deliver~d •Ooutar r.angl:!                                                               SAFE
                    T1-,e HVAC s.ys;.te-m nia1n:.1ins cons:.1nt ~:, :low anc nG!i;a:Iv0 prc!:.!::ure to ens•Jre ~hat lead, s.-r.oke,                                                         Q,i~ 1no:'.':lulM r~~ces 1ncorpor5~r:- spec:it11iy selE!i.:.1ec. be 1-.1st1c or,Cl 3ound d;,mpen1ng mat~n~I~ tl:!~t~d
                    and a1,~orne- part1r:ui~1le a,~ rnovej e,,way from lhe ~hOOtl:'r All .ru- '.);Isses throu~Jh t• 95-09 99%                                                                by a lhird-po:irly :; ~ssure !.afety arid f...:nctior,. P---e cise e~,~rncc."ng, ::1e·v~'.opme111, ,,110 ;Y,.fll~ri,-,11'11nei-1T
                    HEPA 7iltG!f rack b~fc,e 1t is exl,:l'J!:.teci OlliSJ:.le:.                                                                                                              work :ogeti--e· to c:r(:!rJ'.e {1 Zero Sur~ci<:e -::>ange: Zo:i~ (SCZ) r(::"quIred tor rctnge s,;.fety ,:::;~rtif-(;:3:1ori




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Is
       M
       .......
                  I
               MODULAR RANGE
               CONFrGU RATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BULLET BAN K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR M ODULAR RANGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IM .......


                                                                                     - ,.                                                                                                                                  -     --     •.     •                     l               -                  __ - ~ - •                 •   •   .   1)




CONFIGURAT IONS                                                                                                                                              GULLF MNi<
MILO :..1ve has C0':1S~ruc;ted over 1 80 1110:Jule1r range                                                                                                   t~1:,_o L1v!=!'s n;iwes-:: produ~t. t!1P. "!lullP.! 81,nk." s::il'JC•s EFA and OSHA lead r"11[Hi;_icn1::m issu~s ,1:.scc1a:cd wit": 1110<;;~ outdoor rc:.i:ige:s
s:les worldwldE: {0·1er E:CJ:J !.i=.!c.tions). .I\'.! of :.iur 1n::i::l1,.1:(lr                                                                              OutC:,:ior ranges are typ!cal:y ve:y cost effective .and r::p;k:~ to b1Jlld. but l&i'ld cbatc•rr,ent or lead rrlni-:g of -:he earlh berrr, :,yst.ems
rar1ges rnn be- cor,f:,;r..:(ed for ful! con,plie:m:::e \•1ith t:-.e-                                                                                        typ(c,illy ut.117.e::I f~r O'J\daor r.,:intJ~S c:i,n c-::is.r rr:illlo:-.~. The Bullet E-3r.k -'etrofit 30:ves this p1oble1~ by cap::uri ng .:ii; le-:1c-:::irrec.tly
nl::'!·.-~ ur-c: 4-179--02 i1nd !h~ alder ETL 11 -18 s:ico11r,s                                                                                              placed on targe: Le..;'!d rn:·t:gat:~n and r-ecy.::hng c,:1n he completed 1n c matter of rnim1 1.es Tt.-8- Su'.:et 9llr,:< dec.:ele;;:ites th3'
rang!:! cJea::;191·. -Ulli:!fl,1 Alt rrl11g.;,s Jre l"etn::1-bullt witti111                                                                                  praJ~cti:e- and drcp:s the 1-::·ad into ec1:;y-to-corry 2-g~llon conl-8in~rs Y(J1J :::;,,i put t'!-t,g ~E-.-:ij recycle ·1c11ue r;gl">.: back into the range,
o'.1r -::1:!rt,fieC: •11-:::id1.1t,;u m~mufrt.hJ:i:ig r.-1:11::y io.;.:ilted 111                                                                             wl11it:· sewing money on tt-,e -:o5ti cf mitigafon The Bull'=t Bc;nk i:an e:irni11.;J~~ EPA ,rnrl OSI it, ::::ontaini1·aUo~ concern:; an autd:ior
North Lt!s Vegas, l'~V Thi5 guarc=nt~e~ sV;ct adtiere-nce:                                                                                                   rc1r.ges T.!Ve1ywhere, The B111.~t B:rnk :~. ,r'\~en;:leci to be ut1:.zc-d w1tt"1 a backdrop sys~ei.'I Shots rnus~ be ;:i:ac.ed on Of c.io::=.:e to r::P.
~c, qua·:ty ccrtrol and insper:t10r ,cr:t~ria, Er:sur1ng                                                                                                     i~.:yets for flJ'.l lecrd ::::01W1in1nl1!t~l
t:::ip-:o:•\i"O::I quc1:ity fo' your range r~qLJ'.rer:ient We t ifghly
~n::(1Ure.QE> yD.;t orrJ;in1zat r-.n to sc~eclule;, ~::c1l1t~· :cL1r
                                                                                            r·ll(I l,1n,:o .~,n,1 ;•l;ir l.\r>(J~ C (!rJ ;.,i;; ,1-!1,:).~
and shoot 1n5idl:! o~Lr ,t~1t+:'--<)f-t11e-cirt demll .'cl :igE:; ~nd                       exi:i'l,ic!ftt'tl~ ,., 2' l"r~ 1,,,.~,.,,('!.-.~ iN1Cll:·,
F!J(f.lf.!<:~nc.e- the best in tl":e :nciu:.ir/



TWO- LM!f:
Tllf:! •n,.:ii:J-Jlc:.: range, al!uw~ fur o::;,,;oandabiiity :o 1nc.·i:•c15c
fan'!:' incr~ll\~n1-s ;is t1m~ arid budget .:1'.i::._.J_ A.ring~
IC!"li;th can e·,,.€-n IJ~ ocldF.!d 1f sf"IOclin~ d1\jl¥'lt.e~ ~eCliire
gre.:lter engtl", c-~te~ 1r.sta1:c1t1on Th~ lw<.rlt1.r1~ :i1,,Culc1.~
r{1ng'::! c.onflguraticn ::crnes co'.nplet~ wit~ up to two
shovt.1;1g lanes. c;hooting ~tr,11:;, target retnP.'Jal ~ystern~.
bu! .:t traps. anc· 'ight1ng, ~nd lc.;ie lf'iidt:'ls UfJ to 6(l".



READY RMJGE' 90 WIDE: OPEN
Rec1dy 18ni_;e- 90 r,01~1e:, r.omp:ete wit~; S-iO s1·,oot•=·.9
la~c-s (c-x~andc1b:e l·::i 24 lon€-SI. shooli:"tg ~:~·t:;,., :,i,get
ret,'e'Jr:ll ~y~t~m~. bu·let trnps, 1igt-.t.Tr,g, and IC'."'E w1dtt-.s
ti~ Lo 60". M:idu:e fnte:-1or :--.eights r::-ar, I)~ ;-J~::vert>C:: llQ

to 9' :c1:·. Li;.:,:: t~·,e l•1JO-l,1ne- .·r,oG-.;l.::i, r:)ni;:iC?s. thl? Rec:.dy
Rang~ 90 ,ullo•N:S 1 c: ~;,;p~1w:r,bH11y ta ri::rn,"l~I:! ldr)e
1rl<t~rr.ent'i.
         M
         .......
                   I  CUSTOM O PTIONS
                 FOR SHO OTING RANGES

H   •          ,                    • _                   •        ~       • • •• -.': :                  --• •                                 •    _      _    -     -: '_,     ;   _• •     -=        - ,                      ••            -   •• • •        , : • -•• •:•               •                     • •       •• ,       :          _              •I•___..__..:




    CUSTOM RANGE DESIGN
    We. 'N" :! wcrk w1:h you :o -:us torn c:es;!;n tt"it> s.,c-ot1ng range t:Cat's nght for yo Jr n~c.ds We: offer st3~c.-c'.'-th!::!-:::.'.t custom !:hootfns
    t~1.-19c!:; for m,l1ta1y, law enforcem~.,t cgnc1e-s, fh:arrrs proi2!.s·om!:;s, Cl:"',d pri 11Jte gun er,lhusi~1SlS- 1n need of ar, :T.r.,roveO O::C:Dci::-il'.✓ to
    prov1c..z ! 1/C:• fire- :raining We: er.sure iz-·.,oery s7a:it1ng c,;1ng~ c:nc :ac::ity ·we 1,1,·,nwf(Kt~r~ •!;: !)i.J.ll IO lh!:.! high-:;'S: indLl~lrf stan-::lords, ;and
    ,:ill Q;,Jr .i;hco:,ng ,,;1r,g6!S are c~s1;ir,od ur,d t~s1,e::J 10 ens,1re ult ma·,B sh.:::i.olet scifety




                                                                                                                                                                                                    MODUU\R RANGE CUSTOM OPTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    A:I riGady R~ngG! compo!l<.?n~s e,ra, or,9!ne12red and Fal::r1c:~l-;1d in•hOUS~ by o:Jr prof::isston-31 C.'=s1gn tei3rr1s ~nd flletill f;;!.b•.c:ator~. Thi~
                                                                                                                                                                                                    i;1ve::i MILO ~ive -::<:mtrol cf all proo:.::es~f.!S ~ml qu<".lity ;:.ssu;ance for Ready [<,=1r·,ge pr:1ciuct~ and :ompanents. We w:!I wcrk with yo•J ~o
                                                                                                                                                                                                    design the Reacy ~cnge tha~ 1s right far your needs, OF.P.nng cu!:itOT• o:,tic;ns fo; cur slo:1te•nf.~he-c111 sr-,ootrng r;:ir,g~s fer :Ytl1u1ry, law
                                                                                                                                                                                                    enro;::c~1ri~:·t tiger.des., finn1rnis prcfe5s1or,als, ano orivate ,enlhu51,:1st~.




                                                                         , Deploya.bre MCSr....TS/R~ ~or A":r L:fl Tra!"lsporMti::rn ;1r.~ Eli'l~t:e Fiofd Mission P1ep                      • s~,f~ Vm.:l!ed- Weap-:ins Stoi~~e                             ~ Ventilated Wr.;-~:;1CJ11~ Cl~anlc1g ~o,ams

                                                                         • Mob1IF.: MCSA:'SlHR on lrniler Systems tha~ ,'.ire R~movabl-e Fo~ Grouncl Moun.t                                  • F1"XeC FTrfog U nc.! Tra1nf?r Set5                            • Camera l'owers ar.d B~iVst~c W1~dow:.
                                                                         • t!-:irensi-: Modt-•les wi~h Ela:t:st1c C.rip!t1re 'N.a:ter Tl111ks c111d Coaon 80:,:,os                           • PP.tidy S!Q{JJTIS                                             - r=:ash Bang Tes: Room~

                   OPTIOMS & IJPGRi'.OES                                 • T~ct1cal Llve~fir£1 Triliner 5t:-ts w ~th Ballistic Rubber s~rtaces                                               • Sw!ng-cl.!-t 8ati1!>liC ShOl,)t11',g Stllf:dr.l:.;            • Sn1ner TovJ~:-s
                                                                         , Bfllli.:;1ic Te!;? Modu!Gs witl1 Vellic:lc t\ccess. Doors                                                         • Sw1ng out 8cm1cadr.s                                          • 8atl1rooms
                                                                         • M~stE:r Cc1)t~ol Room!l-                                                                                          • S!ltper L1•1e,fiie Moc!:..i!es                                • l;::-1,pto&lon Prcof HEPA Va.::.uu~•s
                                                                         • Cirissrooms
  •
               M ICOLOR
                  MODULAR RANGE
               ......   OPT!ONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                               .                                                                                    .                         .
• •    -                                            /                      •        -   -   -   -   -    -   -        -         -     -   -     '•i   -     -   -       -   -   •   _:_   •       •                                                                                                                     J




                        MODI.IL.AR RMJGE CUSTOM COL.OR OPTIONS                                                                                                                                        PRcMlil M COLOR 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      !'1-C'l;·,;!n (C!v~ I ~(l~re ,\ .Vl'lil-lJI t;ir~ll(IUJO
                        Our moC\1lar rangG!s er~ c1v2ilable fn a wid e v,:ir1ety of s:xt~rlor co;or options




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Natural Whi-::e                             Awa;G B!ue

                                                                                                                                                                                                      M E,J\LLIC COLGRS
                                                   PGrci'".rrent                   Amend                $ierrn T,un       f·.1edh.. rn Srrmze             Aoed Bronze

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-,
                        CappC?r B~awn             Da_r1< Bronrn            lerra-Cotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           An:iq1Jt:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Co:,pe1-Tote
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                  Patina Grl:'~n         He,r.h)t.:k G1eer.                                 E-·✓ergreen               Hartford Gre~n                                        Z,nc-Co1~•                                                               P~~wc,at~ored
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gal'1uiur:1~ ,




                                                                                                                                                                                                       rrrrr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATURAL McTAL FINiSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           f\-::r~•ii-::-Cc:,uLP.-j GoW•.'<llumf': 1s il cc;itr:-rJ ~r.e~1 ;:irocluct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           thi'I'. co:nb1nes t".,)rf(J'ilOt'i r(!~i":,l<if'IC~ o'. GfllVo()lll'r'L~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s;e!!I si1g~1 witi1 ii cl-e<1:, orgc1:111::: :esin a~pl:'e d :c- ~r.e-
                                                    7.lrc G·ey                                                                                                                                                                             ~cp cl:ld bot~~lll slc1te5 of G,'!.lvaltJ[n~ Sl'.h5t~i'lte

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ac:y::c- Cvc1lf!"d
                                                                                                                                                                                                          -;aivali..l:-ne::
      10   I
Si.i•olt an(] easy to Tt4Inf.'li"'\, Oll: bullet cr&,:'I w:1s ces:gned          Ul<e cvary i:::oin;:Joner.: of our st·ootinr; rc1ngft$, c,ur shootint;;;      Our sin,p1e design, L.:smg durt1ble r:1c1ter1.;1ls. c:rsurQ-i ;i IOrlg          Ai, quati1y 18 r.,i:t,amount 'Nh(!n c.onstr:;c:Ing 1.,aOCI' shO('lling
\·,i~!, 11,1?. 1:::•:c1 us~r r., mtnd The vertlcel desTgn ha~ no                s:c1IIs Zll'C de$igr,eci z,nd l!,1gin1?.er€-d with tlill shooter in           life for !!Very !.:i·-gi:!L r~tr~~vol syst~n, we 1n<;lnL1ractur.!, Eacn         1,;mge5 With over 15 y·~.Ji'$ 1r1 :he HVAC :1C!uStry, ,-.:e hi!1.,e
rno•.1In~ pa.ts 1~~uIvrIy 1n al no st :::cHo r.:i,l1i:e~ or duw:.!in1;a         mind. 0~1r desIgr. provides the b-L!st sl1coter orrc:-~tatio.,,               ::,,"1octe1 1:\c'ependontly opeif!ll!-5 the targC!t f~~r1eval ~ystem            deSLgn&('I t\,...d installc-C ovar 5000 HVAC appl,-cl'\t:(),'5 and
 Thi, Is cr•t1..:11I to mil)(11'11ia· rnnge opcrc>t1oi~ €11',d r_ra1m1g,        cor,1ro 1·t, :md protec.tior,                                                 to allOw for c~ntrol'ed poslticnir.g -nf e.;;1::h targtt's diste:nce            systems ti ,a ~~gn~d 1;v1;1r SOC range PfCJl~.::b O..tr ""tVAC
;>,1 of ::rn.- buh~t traps a:o c·es,gne-0 r:no m!-nuiactur-;00                                                                                                We otfflt u compet~ lin& :'.>I 1i:wgctretrieva: sys1etns. md.Jd•~               S',5:Cf1"'5 nl.t"1. OSHA. N.CJS,!1, en::t EPA ,eyU:~5 tor .s.1fely
o,...s,tl? ~ OL"f ~kill-ad o::>fPss:ooa:S 10 C00$1$ten~-. rel&abty,                                                                                           iTcto.· conulll t.>oxc-s 1"!!'-:tk.."'\-'lll 111n..1s. la~t cars and taa~e<s.
ard S!lcly 41fl!l!f~ proJe.:::dcs under livt,•f•tc- tr~1:1in9                   FUNCT•ONALITY                                                                 stain'ess st;:el t:;";hle. ;md crf•1e cord-&.
c"'r'l<.Ht'o,~ ".""hIs cor.~igu11"!'!11::n allows for tlio s~rt;! !::"rrIoval
1111<1 Cl99051!I ot lclla llnd Olller d~bris wlthOLI'. tlur'lll!n               ShOIJltH5 ha..,·e ample roorr for fir<::•::1~1-:1s lreiInfng solo 01
                                                                                                                                                              Special otte1•,~ion t-as ocon glve1~ lo all rnetal fac1n93, ('1'.·...,ri.:.h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CAD D ESIG N OF HVAC SYScTM
co1'l\11Ct CH' ~n,.,·,ronmenta: c3mage TIH~ ve,tTcil desig1:                    wit:, n 1, hstr:.1c:tor ''"' eac:11 slH=ic:ing stall l11Cl1v1c:m1I ta.19C!t
fr'<tWC tra:is tl"il.~ bullel wl1en en:cr,ng 1•,1:1 fei:r hell..:al             retrrQVztl motor controis &nc slf1l1t 119~·.:s a.re located i1, ea:::h        i:ire fabncZiteO frn1n ha:dered steel anc Cul at less tnu,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Recommonc~rl ,11r concht1ornno and h~atlr1c; •~utPfllP.!",:
eu1ie: con1a11'ln~,11s ocl•ieved as the :>ullQ: los~s v eloc11y                 ~t~'I. \V th a ~id?. Ila:. fo~-down sh:>olh\; trav !or '-"Je.-!Pl11l          lhti i.tenCerC 4 5-0£1~:ep angle tron) The .?nt1r.e S')·stem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • E.1<tliJUSI l3t1li: i'llld bl~·!.
                                                                                l)faeerr~nt ano :ak>aC:-n2' Sv.,ng- ::,ut trimcac.es arc also                 1s oos,goac and :r-enufac:urad lt1 ensure durablo a!".a
 sn~ •s1is h armlessly 1h,oug}1 the- bot:oTI fun,12111110                                                                                                                                                                                     , Frter rac<s and filter s
                                                                                an O;Jhnn The height o' S◄• mhm1zes {.lfacte:o b1U'>"'"5 from                 co.r11!~uous op~ration !or ia~dg:.Jr.s. ri!le!t. anC mactilne
 thi bollel stor~ge cc-talnc,r_ Airbome part1cula:2s ar;?                                                                                                                                                                                     • h1:1 dLIct work dc_.s.ig11s, C'VCI S•7.1fl!;, campf'Is ,01"1 reg1s:er
exhZIUSt:l:!d rl'H!U:)h tii :op pc-r~ d1rnctly 11)10 t!•!' ~?ltr.3tk:::it'l     tiave lmfJ ave-:· ~he top. whlhi !hi:! de-pt~ o 1 48"' oi·,~s. the            gl,:is -at 3.6-00 f~s. ~"1th up to 3.800 f: lbs. or t riugy ·%fie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~t71e.;Uotil!i
l:ly~ltri,, re5-:..!tl~g ir, thll clef!:,':?.SI environn,c.,;: possit.>'.e.     sho:,:e1 i:;omp 1ete procec:rt,11 . Stalls a~o olsio o rrered in              R,;1teC L.Pgf.!ld~-€> are ~lso aval:ttl:lle
                                                                                r11odulat co11b;;~1ratio,'"!i for inlegr.:it!o,i of any opfo:1, ~rorn
                                                                                fwC.:M v~y conin11..:n1cc'll: Ofl! to :nte~rated LC:>•lltihted ;;talls..

BU ~LF,T TRAP FEAT URE'S                                                                                                                                      TARGf.T RETRIEVAL OPTIONS
• F,ee sta:~ct:ng modL1!."lr dii!s1gn fits throu;ih a 3'0'" Co,:,,                                                                                            • lndMdulll .!,~~ central:zec! ,.,n,putP.r-<:on:.rollec tur.i:.:g
                                                                                DURASIL IT Y
. Suoerlor bul!N co1)t11fit·1•e 1,t                                                                                                                             tarilet riul sy.st~:1·
, 01rl!:: a:1 11I:ratlon eXl"llhJSl l'IOOk up                                   s1,01, tinQ ,;t~ll tabnc~tio,, co1,s1Sl!5 o~ :::lcublQ ,;r~eHc11<:k-eted      • .=l1H}' pl'O!d rilnlm,11:li i:1, <tl'JIOma~ec' tdrQ<ll ll)ISl~fH'i'!~ w[U1
, .All lr.1pact pln:1!1 ,,: 30 Ch:!yres='i or fc-55                             wall~ wltl1 ti n :gh•grace , 1umi 1,~irn d·e-morid plat-:? or i~n              ,.,w-t.>ol!r:1 progrnmm.;hle: light.in,;_,. ~1it se!"sirtg, zind lllOfe
 • Lo~v ,nsti"\::.:'ltu.~n. ,,u11r,tt1n0nce 3na collocuon C;)Sts                op11on,,1 e;J-Or:.y c::,3jn;> Wrl LI!.€ only tcp-q1.:allty m.ziteria'S        • Vp•1ous r&il SV.!l!tlOl.S
• sn,,,11 lol'..'i pnnt savts on ir1itial bui~ing SQ fl costs                   and CC'OS:tU:blll\ , r ~ tc em.u-e l:lP qu!lhl':( ond sa1~1';
• P"'tOi, ul'le •me Sil<ahber rr-0deli a ... :id:'1D!.e-
          •ottonwood Heights
          Ciry bnll-«11 d,r r,m;om




         Appendix 4

      STAFF REPORT
Interfaith Coalition Discussion

  Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No [½I Undetermined D
                                Denied D     Approved ~ Con!inued 0
 M Approval or Denial
                                CM Signature:         ..,,, ~   ---./1 . { _ _




Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion will lead a discussion on an Int erf aith Coalition and the possibility of form ing one in
Cottonwood Heights.
     '----C-•tl 'i>-_
               '( /) ' \

          Cottonwood Heights
          \ ti) hrmvm rhr ,1111)-0l!I




         Appendix 5

    STAFF REPORT
City Hall Hours Discussion

        Jared Gerber
                                Business Meeting D
                                Yes D No~ Undetermined D




City Manager Jared Gerber will lead a discussion regarding City Hall hours, including the possibility of closing on Fridays.
  Cottonwood Heights
  City WlttY(r/ tl,r (<111)':JIII




  Appendix 6

STAFF REPORT
 Action Items
 Shane Topham
From:             Shame Topham
To:               Jared Gerbe,; Tiffany J;mzen
Subjeet:          (EXT:] Legislation for February 17th City Council Business Meeting
Date:             Tuesday, February 10, 2026 6: 15:01 PM
Attachments:      WST-Cottonwood Hejqhts-Ordinance 462 Adopting Amended f'lurjget for 2025-2026.odf
                  WST-Cottonwooci Hejqhts-Resoilftion 2026-12 Appointino tn UFA Board odf
                  WST-Cottonwooci Hejghts-Resoiution 2026-13 Aooointing M~mber,; of the FY 2026-27 Budget A;iv•sory
                  Cornmittee,pdf
                  WST-Cotto~wood Heigf-ts-Resolution ~026-14 Aooroy<ng Consulting Aqreement for 8udgeta,y Services pdf
                  WST-Cottonwoo,i Heights-Aaree:nent wth Kerri Nakamqra & Assocjat;es Propr-ttv Tax l1aease Consulting
                  Services.pdf
                  WST-Cottonwood Heigt;t.<o-Resolution 20,6-15 Armrovinr Health Adyjso!V Committee 1,opointment odf


Greetings-


Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the February 17th city
council business meeting are attached for your review and comment:


   1. Ordinance 462. This ordinance will approve the amendment of the city's FY 2025-26
        budget as previously discussed.


   2. Resolution 2026-12. This resolution wiH apprnve the appointments of Mayor Bennion
        and of Councilmember Hyland as the city's representative and alternate representative
        to the Unified Fire Authority board.


   3. Resolution 2026-13. This resolution will approve and ratify the proposed FY 2026-27
        budget advisory committee as well as some basic operational parameters shown o n the
        last page of the resolution.


   4. Resolution 2026-14. This resoluti-on will approve the city's entry into a consulting
        agreement whereunder Kerri Nakamura and Associates will provide "truth-in-taxation"
        and related budgetary process consultiing services to the city. A copy of the proposed
        agreement also is attached.


   5. Resolution 2026-15. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of
        Danielle Lecourt to the city's Health in the Heights advisory committee.


Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the
attachments.


Best regards~


Shane
                                      '(
                                           ,;.:-...' \   (




                          Cottonwood Heights
                           (.ity /,,w -em 1l,r c,U(),;m




         CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                         Attachment 1
                        Ordinance 462
The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend their
budgets at least quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since
   the budget was adopted. This ordinance will approve an
     amendment to the city's current [2025-2026] budget.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE No. 462


                  AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN AMENDED BUDGET
                FOR THE PERIOD OF 1 JULY 2025 THROUGH 30 JUNE 2026

        WHEREAS, the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities (the "Act") provides,
among other things, that prior to adoption by a city's governing body of a municipal budget, the
city's mayor or other budget officer shall propose a tentative budget which shall be reviewed,
considered and tentatively adopted by the governing body in open meeting, whereupon (a) the
governing body shall establish the time and place of a public hearing to consider the adoption of
the tentative budget; (b) the tentative budget shall be a public record in the office of the city's
recorder available for public inspection for a period of at least ten days prior to the adoption of a
final budget: ( c) notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, and on the Utah Public Notices Website, at least seven days prior to the
public hearing; and (d) the public hearing shall be held; and

      ·wHEREAS, the Act also provides that amendments to a city's adopted budget may be
approved by resolution or ordinance following appropriate notice and a public hearing; and

        \VHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 443 ("Ordinance 443") dated 17 June 2025,
the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights {the "City") adopted a budget
for the City's 2025-2026 fiscal year and set the real and personal property tax levy for realty and
personalty ,vithin the City; and

      \VHEREAS, the City's budget officer heretofore has filed with the Council a proposed
amended budget (the "Amended Budget") for the City's current fiscal year: and

       WHEREAS, the Amended Budget has been reviewed by the Council: and

       WHEREAS, the time and place of a public hearing regarding adoption of the Amended
Budget were set for 7:00 p.m. on 17 Febrnary 2026 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, Utah; and

       \VHEREAS, notice of the public hearing concerning the Amended Budget was timely
posted and published as required by statute; and

        WHEREAS, the public hearing was held beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m. on 17
February 2026 to receive public comment on the Amended Budget as set forth in the published
notice; and

        WHEREAS, at the public hearing, all interested persons were given an opportunity to be
heard; and

        "'HEREAS, on 17 February 2026 the Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, approving the Amended Budget as proposed; and
       'WHEREAS, it is the intent and desire of the Council to comply with all applicable laws
regarding adoption of the Amended Budget and ratification of the property tax rate and the levying
of property taxes as provided in Ordinance 443; and

         WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council finds that it has satisfied all legal
requirements to adopt the Amended Budget and to ratify the tax rate and levy property taxes as
provided in Ordinance 443, and that it is in the best interests of the citizens of the City to adopt the
Amended Budget presented at the 17 February 2026 public hearing as the amended final budget
for the City for the period in question, and to ratify the rate of property tax and to levy taxes upon
all real and personal property within the City as provided in Ordinance 443;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        Section l.      Adoption o(Amended Budget.

               A.     The Amended Budget presented at the 17 February 2026 public hearing (as
heretofore modified by the Budget Officer under Council direction, including the amendments
specified on any exhibits that are attached to this Ordinance) be, and hereby is, appropriated for
the corporate purposes and objects of the City for the fiscal year in question, and hereby is adopted
as the City's final budget for the period of I July 2025 through 30 June 2026, subject to
amendment.

               B.     A copy of the Amended Budget adopted hereby shall be certified and filed
with the Utah State Auditor, as appropriate, and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours at the City's business offices.

                 C.      The City's manager and other officers are hereby directed to take any other
nece-s sa,y actions pertinent to the adoption of the Amended Budget, including, without limitation,
such notification, reporting and publishing as may be required by applicable law.

              D.     Amounts in excess of the City's cash requirements shall be deposited in the
investment fund maintained by the state treasurer under the State Money Management Act, UTAH
CODEA.N'N. §51-7-1 et seq.


       Section 2.    Propertr Tax Rate and Levv. Section 2 of Ordinance 443 is hereby ratified,
affim1ed and incorporated herein by this reference.

        Section 3.     Actfo,i of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confomed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severllbility. All pa11s of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

                                                   2
         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or pa1is thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 462, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this I 7th day of February 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __                     By: - - - - - - - - - - - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea _    Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                   Y ea _ Nay _
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_ N ay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Y ea_N ay _
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Y ea _ Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this I 7t,h day of February 2026.

       POSTED this_ day of February 2026.




                                                 3
 Budget Adjustment Outline
 February 17, 2026                                                                                       Y!!:,d                              Heiglti
                                                                                                                 r f; -, 1' ,·ttif't• r/tf(-'11,,_NI




           I                     I
To:        !City Manager, Mayor, City Council                             From:        l scottJurges, Budget Officer
Date:      !February 17, 2026    I
Re:        12025/2026 Budget Adjustments     I                          I              I                I                                  I
Meeting Requested     I           Business Meeting         □        Iwork Session [)        Iother □ I
Public Hearing Needed?            Yes    0                 No      DI          I Undetermined     □
CM Approval or Denial             Denied     u             AoorQiJed        0          Continued                    □
           l                      CM Signature:      ~/        ,£/'-            -
                                                     /                                                  I
                      -
General Fund                                                                               Expense          Revenue                                    Net
                                                                            -

1.         State of Utah DUI OT, EZ Check OT, Click it OT reimbursement                        11,393                11,393                                  -
           $11,393
                                                           I
2.         IRestitution reimbursement $850                                                        850                         850                            -

                                 I
3.         UVU OT, BHS Event OT, CSD Event OT, Other Event OT                                  64,609                64,609 !                                -
           reimbursement $64,609
·~                                           I
4.         Evidence Gun Sale $3,970                                                             3,970                    3,970                               -




5.         Sister City Donation to offset Expense $1,000                                        1,000                    1,000                               -



6.         Budget County Local Transit Tax with corresponding transfer to the                400,000    l         400,000                                    -

           Capital Projects Fund $400,000

7.         Wellness Council grant from PEHP for $400                                              400                         400                            -


                                             I
8.         Rocky Mountain Power Light the Heights contribution $2,500                           2,500                    2,500                               -
                                                                                                                                            '

--
9.         Rocky Mountain Power Historic Committee Monument                                     3,500                    3,500                               -
                                                                                                                                                        - -
           contribution $3,500

10.        Recognize additional revenue and expense related to Butlerville                     46,654                 46,654                                 -
           Days celebration $27,964, Arts Council Play $18,690
----       ~




11.        Justice Assistance Grant from the State of Utah division of public          ,__      5,916                    5,916                               -

           safety $5,916

                                                                                                             -       -
               --
                                                  General Fund Total '.                      540,792              540,792                                        -
                                                                        I

2/4/2026                                                       1 of 2               P:\FINANCE\SJurges\Budget\Budget Adjustme~t Memo 2026 0217
Ca~ital Projects Fund                                                            Expense           Revenue              Net

-
1.         Recognize and budget the expense from the transfer of County             400,000           400,000                 -
           Local Transit Tax $400,000



                                       Capital Projects Fund Total                  400,000           400,000                     -
                                                      I                      I
                                                      I                                                          I




2/4/2026                                                  2 of 2          P:\FINANCE\SJurges\ Budget\Budget Adjustment Memo 2026 02 17
                          Cottonwood
                          Cuy bm,wn tht
                                        Heights
                                     {1W) M1




                        Attachment 2
                     Resolution 2026-12
By this resolution, the council will approve the appointments of
    Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, as the regular member, and
 Councilmember Suzanne Hyland, as the alternate member, to
    represent the city on the Unified Fire Authority Board.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-12

                     A RESOLUTION APPOINTING REPRESENT AT1VES
                 TO THE UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY GOVERNING BOARD

        WHEREAS, the city council (the '·Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 17 February 2026 to consider, among other things, approving the
appointment of a City representative and an alternate representative to the governing board (the
"Board") of the Unified Fire Authority (the "UFA"); and

        '\\'HEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detem1ined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City to appoint a City
representative and an alternate representative to the UFA Board; and

        WHEREAS, Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion has expressed willingness to serve as the City's
representative to the UFA Board and Councilmember Suzanne Ryland has expressed willingness
to serve as the City's alternate representative to the UFA Board; and

        WHEREAS, the City's mayor and manager have nominated Mayor Bennion and
Councilmember Hyland to act as the City's representative and alternate representative,
respectively, to the UFA Board; and

        \VHEREAS, the Council is familiar with Mayor Bennion and Councihnember Hyland and
their qualifications to so act;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby consents to, confirms and ratifies the appointments of Gay Lynn
Bennion as the City's representative to the UFA Board and of Suzanne Hyland as the City's
alternate representative to the UFA Board, each to act until her replacement is duty appointed.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-12, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED A.ND APPROVED this l 71h day ofFebmary 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



                                             By:
B y : - - - - - - - - - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                                   - - - - - - - - -- - -- - ---
                                                   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                  VOTING:

                                  Gay Lynn Bennion            Y ea_ N ay_
                                  Matt Holton                 Yea_N ay _
                                  Suzanne Hyland              Y ea _ Nay_
                                  Shawn E. Newell             Y ea_Nay _
                                  Ellen Birrell               Y ea _ Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 17th day ofFebmary 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of Febmary 2026.




                                     2
                       Cottonwood Heights
                       City l,uwa11 tltr r,IJ/)MJS




                     Attachment 3
                  Resolution 2026-13
By this resolution the council will approve and ratify the
appointments of the members of the city's citizen budget
                   advisory committee.
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting D    Work Session O   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes □ No □ Undetermined □
                             Denied □   Approved D Continued □
 M Approval or Denial
                                              /'. --- - : 7;./f.
                             CM Signature:_ ->--- •




Name                     District           Role
Brian Nordberg           District 1          Member
Mike Shelton             District 1          Member
Elizabeth Benson         District 2          Member
Jonathan Owens           District 2          Member
Tyler Carruth            District 3          Member
Eva Chan                 District 3          Member
Eric Kraan               District 4          Member
Gere Fede                District 4         Alternate
 Lynne Kraus             District 2         Alternate
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     RESOLUTION No. 2026-13

                        A RESOLUTION APPOrNTrNG MEMBERS OF THE
                        FY 2026-27 BUDGET ADVISORY COMIVl.ITTEE

        'WHEREAS, applicable Utah statutes authorize the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") to
impose certain taxes, including levying a general prope1ty tax on all real and personal property
within City, for the purpose of defraying City's necessary and proper expenses and for maintaining
City's government~ and

       \\'HE REAS, absent significant new growth of a city's assessed property subject to property
tax, materially increasing a city's property tax revenue typically requires increasing its general
property tax rate above the current certified tax rate in compl.iance \\rith the truth-in-taxation process
governed by Title 10 and Section 59-2-919 of the Utah Code; and

        ,vHEREAS, because current budgetary constraints and sound management principles may
require City to 1increase its general property tax rate above the applicable certified tax rate for its
upcoming 2026-27 fiscal year. City desires to form a citizen advisory committee to provide desired
citizen input concerning City's FY 2026-27 budget (the '"Budget"), with such committee (the
"Committee") consisting ofseven regular members and two ahemate members appointed by City's
city council (the "CmmciT') with pertinent qualifications and an expressed intereM in helping City
fonnuiate the Budget; and

       \VHEREAS, the Council met on 17 February 2026 to, among other things, consider the
appointment of the initial members of the Committee; and

     \\'HEREAS, the following individuals have been nominated to serve as the members ofthe
Committee:

                        Regular Members

                        Mike Shelton (District 1)
                        Brian Nordberg (District l)
                        Jonathan Owens (District 2)
                        Elizabeth Benson (District 2)
                        Tyler Camnh (District 3)
                        Eva Chan (District 3)
                        Eric Kraan (District 4)

                        Alternates

                        Gerry Fede (District 4)
                        Lynne Kraus (District 2)

and,
        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens ofthe City to consent to such appointments
to the Committee as proposed;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the aforementioned persons are hereby appointed to the Committee as specified above,
and be it

        FURTHER RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood Heights that the
Committee shall operate as outlined in the attached memorandum of certain operational parameters
or as otherwise directed by the Council.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-13 , shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 17tt1 day of February 2026.

ATTEST:                                        COTTOMVOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - -- - -- - -- --                      By:
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         -Gay
                                                       -Lynn
                                                          -- --  - -- - -- -- ---
                                                             Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea _ Nay _
                                              Matt Holton                     Yea _ Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_ Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                 Yea _ Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                   Yea_ Nay _

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 17th day of February 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of February 2026.




                                                 2
Cottonwood Heights FY 2026-2027 Budget Advisory Committee Parameters
Staff Support
The City Manager will work in conjunction with the City's Finance Director to assign staff support
to the Committee.
Committee Meetings and Responsibilities
Once the Committee is established, regular meeting times will be considered. The Committee will
work at a high, overview level with support staff and any budget consultant engaged by City (the
"Consultant") to review information and relevant data pertaining to the development of City's FY
2026-2027 budget.
The Committee's input will be provided by consensus achieved at their regular meetings; the
Committee's role will be adviso1y only. The Committee will not direct staff or the Consultant.
Instead, the Committee will develop recommendations if and as consensus is reached rather than
through fonnal meeting procedure-s, majority/minority positions, or the like.

Regular members of the Committee may vote on matters coming before the Committee for vote.
Alternate members of the Conunittee shall be entitled to vote on those matters only as necessary to
fill the void left by the absence of a regular, voting member, after being appointed to fill such void
by ,vritten direction of the City manager.

The Committee's written recommendations will be forwarde-0 to the Council for consideration at
appropriate times during City's FY 2026-2027 budget process. All final decisions concerning the
City's budget will be entirely in the Council's discretion.
Ihe Committee's work and status as an advisory committee will be deemed completed upon the
Council's adoption of the final budget for FY 2026~2027, which shall occur no later than 31 August
2026 or any earlier deadline specified by applicable Utah statutes.




                                                  3
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          (.i~)' /x11, '(rll t/J(' ,·,u~)'OIIJ




                        Attachment 4
                     Resolution 2026-14
This resolution will approve the city's entry into a consulting
agreement whereunder Kerri Nakamura and Associates will
 provide services in connection with the city's FY 2026-27
                      budgetary process.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-14

            A RESOLUTION APPROVING A CONSULTING AGREEMENT WITH
           KERRI NAKAMURA AND ASSOCIATES FOR BUDGETARY MATTERS

       WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City")
met in regular session on 17 Febrnary 2026 to consider, among other things, approving an
agreement (the "Agreement") with Kerri Nakamurn and Associates ("Provider") whereunder
Provider would provide budgetary process consulting services in connection with City's FY 2026-
2027 budgetmy process, and perform related v,,ork, as provided in the Agreement; and

       'WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        \VHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and ,velfare of City's residents to approve City's entry into the
Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RE-SOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that City's mayor and recorder are authorized and
directed to execute and deliver the Agree.ment on behalf of City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026- l 4, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective l 7 Febmary 2026.


ATTEST:                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ __ __ _ __ _                        By:-- - -- - -- - -- - - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                  Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                            VOTING:

                                            Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_ Nay_
                                            Matt Holton                    Yea_ Nay_
                                            Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _Nay_
                                            Shav.11 E. Newell              Yea _Nay _
                                            Ellen Birrell                  Yea_ Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 17111 day of February 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of February 2026.
                                  Consulting Agreement
       THIS CONSULTING AGREE.MENT (this "Agreement") is entered into effective 17
Febrnary 2026 between COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is 2277
East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"), and KERRI NAKAMURA AND
ASSOCIATES, whose address is 933 Washington Street, Unit l l2, Salt Lake City, UT 84101
("Provider").



       A       Applicable Utah statutes authorize City to impose certain taxes, including levying a
general property tax on all real and personal property within City, for the purpose of defraying City's
necessary and proper expenses and for maintaining City's government.

         B.      Absent significant new grmvth of a city's assessed property subject to property tax,
materia!ly increasing a city's property tax revenue typically requires increasing its general property
tax. rate above the current certified tax rate in compliance with the truth-in-taxation process governed
by Title 10 and Section 59-2-919 of the Utah Code. Provider has significant experience and expertise
concerning the trnth-in-taxation process.

        C.     Because current budgetary constraints and sound management principles may require
City to increase its general property tax rate above the applicable certified tax rate, City desires to
engage Provider, and Provider desires to be retained by City, to provide the truth-in~taxation related
consulting services detailed below on the terms and conditions specified in this Agreement.

        D.      The parties intend to identify here-in the services to be performed for City by Provider,
the basis of compensation for such services, and to otherwise set forth their entire agreement
concerning such services. Consequently, this Agreement shall supersede any and all prior or
contemporaneous negotiations andJor agreements, oral and/or written, between the parties concerning
the services to be provided under this Agreement.



        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        Section 1.     Engagement of Provider_ City here-by engages Provider, and Provider hereby
agrees, to perfonn the Services (defined below) as specified in this Agreement.

        Section 2.    Scope of Services_ By its November I 8, 2025 letter to City (the "Proposal")
Provider has proposed to take lead on City's anticipated truth~in-taxation compliance process for its
upcoming FY 2026-27 budget in compliance with all applicable Utah law, including (a) preparing a
timeline of the process to increase property tax revenue for City's 2026-27 fiscal year and
implementing a property tax increase; (b) a presentation to City's city council and other City officers
concerning that process and exploring available revenue sources in addition to property and sales tax;
(c) planning and holding public meetings to explain the need for additional property tax revenue; (d)
preparing all necessary or advisable notices, agendas, resolutions, ordinances and public
presentations, and/or verifying the legal adequacy of any such items prepared by City staff; (e)
coordinating City's tmth-in-taxation process with the Utah State Tax Commission and the Salt Lake
County Auditor; and (f) all ancillary and associated services as may be reasonably necessary or
advisable to complement and complete the services described in the Proposal (collectively, the
"Services" ), all as contemplated by all applicable legal requirements and best practices. Subject to the
foregoing, the Services also shall include the following:

               (a)      Phases. The Services shall be divided into the phases, steps and work described
in the Proposal.

               (b)     Afoetings. Provider shall attend the meetings concerning the Services as
detailed in the Proposal. If City reasonably desires for Provider to attend any additional meetings
concerning the Services (such as presentations at public meetings or hearings to receive public input
and direction from City) then such attendance shall be as mutually agreed by the parties. With
Provider's participation and oversight, City shall schedule and advertise all public meetings or
hearings. All reasonable and final adjustments and amendments to the resulting deliverables as
directed by City will be made by Provider prior to Provider's deemed completion of the Services.

              (c)    Schedule. It is anticipated that the Seryices \vill be completed by 30 September
2026. Provider shall comply with the mutually-approved timeline/performance schedule for the
component Services unless City otherwise reasonably may direct upon reasonable prior notice to
Provider.

               (d)     Deliverables. Provider shall pro vi de all de! iverables identified in the Proposal,
as well as such other documentation and deliverables as City reasonably may request.

               (e)    Other Services. Provider shall perfonn other services and work as specified in
the Proposal, or as may be mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.

If Provider belie.ves that any of the aforementioned Services merit payment of any additional fee
beyond the Base Fee (defined below), then Provider shall so inform City in advance before
undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and the
not to exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Provider to proceed with any such additional
services, City shall so infonn Provider in writing. Provider may not perform any additional services,
or seek compe.nsation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

       Section 3.     Fees for Services. City shall pay Provider for Services actually performed by
Provider and her employee(s) at the rate of $125/hour not to exceed a total of $15,000 (the "Base
Fee") unless agreed by City in advance in ,vriting.

        Section 4.        Method of Pavment. Each calendar month Provider shall submit to City a
detailed invoice setting forth the Services performed during the immediately preceding calendar
month, describing the Services rendered by type and date and specifying the resulting charges. C barges
shall be in relation to the portion ofthe Services then completed and cumulatively for the entire project
shall not exceed the Base Fee plus any mutually-approved charges for additional related Services
under Section 2. City shall pay (or provide a reasoned objection to) the amount set f011h in the current
invoice within 20 days after receipt.

       Section 5.      Services Performed in a Professional, Reasonable Manner. Provider shall
perform the Services in a professional, reasonable, responsive manner in compliance with the
Proposal, all laws, and all applicable standards of performance. Subject to the foregoing, the exact
                                                    2
nature of how the Services are to be performed and other matters incidental to providing the Services
shall remain with Provider.

        Section 6.      Personnel, Eguiument and Facilities. Except as otherwise specified in this
Agreement, Provider shall at its sole cost furnish all supervision, personnel, labor, equipment,
mate1ials, supplies, office space, communication facilities, vehicles for transportation and
identification cards, and shall obtain all licenses and pe1mits, necessary or incidental to perfonning
any and all of the Services. Provider shall not use City staff as a means to perform the Services in lieu
of using Pro,·ider's own staff, nor shall Provider perform any of the Services on City's premises or
utilizing any City equipment or supplies except in connection with applicable public meetings;
provided, however, that City shall endeavor to provide to Provider any support specified in the
Proposal.

        Section 7.     Term. This Agreement shall be effective on the date hereof. This Agreement
shall terminate no later than 30 September 2026 or such later date as City reasonably may designate.

       Section 8.      Assignment and Delegation. If Provider chooses to subcontract to one or
more third parties any part(s) of the Services, such subcontract shall be at Provider's own risk, and
Provider shall remain fully responsible for the full, timely and proper perfonnance of all the Services.

       Section 9.    Independent Contractor Status. Provider shall perfo1m the Sen-ices as an
independent contractor, and all persons employed by Provider in connection herewith shall be
employees or independent contractors of Provider and not employees of City in any respect.

              (a)     Control. Pro-vider shall have complete control and discretion over all personnel
providing Services hereunder.

              (b)     Salarv and Wages. City shall not have any obligation or liability for the
payment of any salaries, wages or other compensation to personnel providing Setvices hereunder.

               (c)     No Emplovment Benefits. All personnel providing Services are and shall be and
remain Provider's employees, and shall have no right to any City pension, civil service, or any other
City benefits pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.

         Section 10. Termination. Either party may terminate this Agreement, without cause, upon
at least 30 days' prior written notice to the other party. Either party also may tem1inate this Agreement
for cause upon at least ten days' prior written notice and opportunity to cure to the defaulting party.
Neither party shall have any liability to the other for damages nor other losses because of termination
of this Agreement, provided; however, City shall pay Provider all amounts due for actual work
perfonned within the scope of Services before the effective date of the tennination, as specified
herein.

        Section 11.    Indemnification. Provider shall defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless
City (including, without limitation, its elected and appointed officers, employees, successors and
assigns) from and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions and/or
proceedings, in law or equity (including reasonable attorneys' fees and cost of suit), relating to or
arising in any way from the Services provided, or to be provided, hereunder. Provider shall so defend,
indemnify, save and hold harmless City whether such demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions
and/or proceedings are attributable to the simple negligence, gross negligence, recklessness or
                                                  3
intentional misconduct of Provider (or any officers, employees, agents, subcontractors, etc. of
Provider), or under any other applicable legal theory, and shall be effective whether or not such
negligence, recklessness or other misconduct reasonably was foreseeable. Nothing herein shall,
however, require Provider to indemnify as provided in this section with respect to (a) City's own
negligence or intentional misconduct, or (b) any demand, liability, claim, damage, action and/or
proceeding not alleged to relate to the Services provided, or to be-provided, by Provider hereunder.

        Section 12.     Laws and Regulations. Provider shall at all times comply with all applicable
laws, stanues, rnles, regulations, and ordinances, including without limitation, those governing wages,
hours, desegregation, employment discrimination, workers' compensation, employer's liability and
safety. Provider shall comply with equal opportunity laws and regulations to the extent that they are
applicable.

       Section 13.     Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be constmed as
granting to Provider any exclusive right to perform any or all Services (or similar services) now or
hereafter required by City.

         Section 14. Conflict Resolution. Except as othenvise provided for herein, any dispute
between the parties regarding the Services which is not disposed ofby agreement shall be decided by
City, which shall provide written notice of the decision to Provider. Such decision by City shall be
final unless Provider, within 30 calendar days after such notice of City's decision, provides to City a
v,Titten notice of protest, stating clearly and in detail the basis thereof Provider shall continue its
performance of this Agreement during such resolution. If the parties do not thereafter agree to a
mutually-acceptable resolution, then they shall resolve the dispute pursuant to section 15 below.

         Section 15.     Claims and Disputes. Unresolved claims, disputes and other issues benveen
the parties arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be decided by litigation in the Third Judicial
Distric.t Coun of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise tenninated pursuant to the provisions
hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Provider shall continue to perfonn the Services during any such
litigation proceedings and City shall continue to make undisputed payments to Provider in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 16.    Notices. Any notice required or pennitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been received
(a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such notice is
deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth above or such other address(es) as may have been previously provided
to the other party by notice hereunder

        Section 17.     Conflicts; Omissions. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
Agreement, the Proposal or applicable legal requirements, Provider shall (a) provide the better quality
or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with the more beneficial requirements to City, either or
both in accordance. with City's interpretation.

      Section 18. Additional Provisions. The following prov1s1ons also are integral to this
Agreement:

              (a)   Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are for
convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and shall in
                                                     4
no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any pait or parts
hereof.

                (b)    Pronouns and Plvra!s. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used
herein shall include the corresponding mase-uline, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular fonn of
nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

              (c)   Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by and
constmed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

                (d)     Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties pe1taining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings
pertaining thereto.

               (e)     Time. Time is the essence hereof.

               (t)    Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties contained
herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect
throughout the term of this Agreement.

               (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of any
covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a \vaiver of any such breach or of such or any other
covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner provided
in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, \vaive any of its rights or any conditions to its
obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other pai1y. No waiver shall affect
or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other covenant, agreement, term and
condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect \Vith respect to any other then existing or
subsequently occurring breach.

               (h)     Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall not be
mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall not
preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

                 (i)     Severabilitv. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision hereof
is held to be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder ofthis Agreement
and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If such condition,
covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall
be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth pem1itted by law.

               (j)     Litigation. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto with
respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the prevailing
party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be paid by the non-
prevailing party.

               (k)     lxhibits. All exhibits am1exed to this Agreement are expressly made a part of
this Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either in this
Agreement itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this Agreement
and all such exhibits and writings.
                                                    5
               (I)     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrnment.

                (m)     Authorizations. Each person signing this Agreement represents and warrants
that he is authorized to sign this Agreement for the party indicated.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.


                                             CITY:

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHS, a Utah municipality


By: _ _ _ __ _ _ __ __
                                             By: - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen. Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor



                                             PROVIDER:

                                             KERRI NAKAI\UJRA AND ASSOCIATES


                                             By: - - - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -
                                                 Kerri C. Nakamura, Principal and Owrrnr




                                                  6
                                        0-.
                                     ( 1 ,·\ '
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         Cir)' herwa,r rl,e c,111)<'111




                       Attachment 5
                    Resolution 2026-15
 This resolution wi11 approve the manager's appointment of
Danielle Lecourt to the city's Health in the Heights advisory
                         committee.
                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     RESOLUTION No. 2026-15

                        A RESOLUTION APPOINTING A MEMBER OF THE
                      "HEALTH IN THE HEIGHTS" ADVISORY COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, Part 8 of Chapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS Com OF ORDINANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.801 through 2.140.805, establishes the "Health in the
Heights" public health committee (the "Committee'') as one of the advisory committees for the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "Cily"); and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.803(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of at Least 12 and
up to 30 members, with a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge concerning physical and
behavioral public health issues; and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.104 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
''Councir'). and that the terms of office shall be three years, ,1,-ith the tenns of office of the initial
members staggered as necessary so that the terms of approximately one-third of the members expire
each year; and

       WHEREAS, on 17 December 2024 the Council appointed 19 initial members of the
Committee pursuant to its Resolution 2024-76 and thereafter made other appointments to and releases
from the Conunittee: and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 17 February 2026 to. among other things, consider (a)
appointing a new member of the Committee, and (b) ratifying and consenting to the current
composition of membership of the Committee; aud

     WHEREAS, the Manager desires to Danielle LeCourt as a new regular member of the
Committee; and

        'WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detem1ined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to give advice and consent to such
appointment as proposed by the Manager;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of the aforementioned
person to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice and consent to the status of the
following individuals as all the current members of the Committee for the terms of office set forth
opposite each name:

               Name                                                    Term Expires

               Audrey Durfee                                           l December 2026
               Timothy Jahn                                            1 December 2026
               Nathan Malan                                            I December 2026
               Beatriz Mayorga                                         I December 2026
               Maggie Mills                                            I December 2026
               Riley Pilgrim                                           I December 2026
            Whitney Rosas                                       l December 2026
            Carol Ruddell                                       l December 2026

            Diane Foster-Burke                                  l December 2027
            Eva Chan                                            I December 2027
            Robby Russo                                         I December 2027
            Sean Steinman                                       I December 202 7
            Mike Smith                                          l December 2027
            Tammi Sumsion                                       l December 2027
            Danny Trujillo                                      1 December 2027
            Chelsey Voss                                        I December 202 7

            Lauren Black                                        I December 2028
            Misty Clark                                         I December 2028
            Isaiah Delpilar                                     I December 2028
            Susan Edwards                                       l December 2028
            Mary Ann Jensen                                     1 December 2028
            Kenyon Kawa                                         1 December 2028
            Danielle LeCourt                                    1 December 2028
            Bonnie Lee                                          l December 2028

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-15, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective i 7 Febmary 2026.

ATTEST:                                  COTTOl\WOOD HJHGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:._ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ __ _
                                         By: - - - - -- -- - - -- - -- -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea _    Nay _
                                         Matt Holton                   Yea _ Nay _
                                         Suzanne Hyland                Yea _ N ay _
                                         Shawn B. Newell               Y ea _ Nay _
                                         Ellen Birrell                 Y ea _ N ay _

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 17th day of February 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of February 2026.




                                              2
                         Committee Volunteer Application Form

Committee Name:                           Health in the Heights

Volunteer Applicant Name:                 Danielle Lecourt

Address:                                  7937 South Mountain Oaks Drive

City:                                     Cottonwood Heights

State:                                    UT

City Council District:                    District 4

Phone Number:                             801-530-9340

Email Address:                            danielle@delecourt.co


Resume or Application Included:
                                          Danielle LeCourt, MSC
                             Cottonwood Heiglm, UT danieUe@ddecourt.co (801) 530-9340

Research-to-public communications leader/ Evidence-to-action storytelling/ Podcast strategist {since 2015)

Strategic communirn,ions and storytelling leader with ;i research foundation and 1G+ years of experience translating
complex research, science, and technology for mixed audiences. Career spans applied research, graduate-level
teaching, full-time leadership roles, and contract engagements with mission-driven institutions. Podcast producer
since 2015, specializing in high-trust, narrati-ve formats that support understanding, participation, and real-world
uptake of evidence-based work.

How I Can Support a Community Health Coalition
    •   Translate youth health and prevention <larn into dear, motiYating messages for families, partners, and
        community leaders
    •   Support cross-sector alignment through consistent, relationship-centered communications
    •   Help make coalition priorities, progress, and outcomes visible to sustain engagement
    •   Elevate community and youth voice in ways that are ethical, accessible, and evidence-aligned
    •   Draw on a national network of world-class education researchers and practitioner leaders to pressure-test
        messaging, surface relevant evidence, and connect the coalition to proven approaches from peer
        commut11ties


Selected Employment Experience {full-time roles}

Senior Manager, Author Communications I Pluralsight
Led communications strategy for a global es:pert community, supporting clarity, trust, and engagement across a
large, distributed nen.vork of subject-matter experts. Guided messaging during periods of change and built
feedback-informed communication rhrd1ms.

Director of Communication ! Caruth Institute for Engineering Education, Southern Methodist University
Built STEM storytelling and outreach communications connecting engineering education research with educators,
students, and youth audiences; supported visibility and engagement for e<lucation initiatiYes.

Director of Communication & Community Outreach I Utah Council for Citizen Diplomacy
Led community-facing communications and partnership outreach supporting international exchange, civic
engagement, wd public-facing programming across diverse stakeholders.



Selected Contract Engagements (Client Work)
Center for Education Policy Research (CEPR), Harvard University
Communications strategy and multimedia storytelling supporting research translation, network engagement, and
dissemination of education data and policy insights.

Genentech
l\foltimedia storytelling and internal communications translating complex scientific work into accessible narratives
for broad employee audiences.
Impact Florida
Storytelli11g and podcast production supporting practitioner learning, network comrnunirntions, and dissemination
of evidence-informed education improvement work.

Research & Teaching Foundation
Research Associate I PEGUS Research
Managed clinical research trials and mixed-method qualitative and quantitative consumer behavior studies, including
budgets up to millions of dollars and cross-functional teams (15-150). Led site coordination nationally, ensured
regulatory compliance/QA, and served as primary client contact for pharmaceutical partners.

Graduate-Level Teaching (Visiting Professor/ Adjunct)
Taught qualitative research methods and strategic communications concepts at the graduate level, supporting
srndents ·working at the intersection of research, policy, and practice.


Selected Portfolio
Podcasts (selected)

What Counts - 3-part Limited series (released January 2026)
A na.rrn.ti,-e podcast de,·eloped in partnership ,vith Impact Florida that explores a simple but overlooked driver of
math learning: rcbtionships. Built from first-person stories of educators and students, the series translates
research-backed insights into lived, practical reflections for teachers, school leaders, and education net,vorks.
Designed as a supplement to professional learning an.d released init.i.llly to a pi.lot cohort before public launch.

1"he Art of Mountain Biking - Host / producer (2023-2024, retired)
Globally ranked lifestyle podcast (top 25% ,vorld\vide) using mountain biking as a lens to explore resilience, identity,
grief, and meaning-designed for "humans on bikes," not onlr athletes. Inten-ie,v-forward storytelling with athletes
and leaders, built to open deeper conversations through a sport-based entry point.


Selected episodes: The Mechanics of Nor Gi,,in~ Up ,y/ I3ravdon Brin!!.hurst; hndirw i\le:inimi: ii: Ach-enture:
E;;:pJori11g tl1t: Connfq ion bct\vecn I Ium;m Nature «nd T hrllli.ug Pnr:;uits w / Dr. Ecic Br_1'mcr; Fas1 Is Fun: F-lmv   t ()


Build Spcc d with Rhi,111(111 Gclsornino
          0




Re-Quilibriurn - Host/ producer (2015-2021, retired)
Interview-driven podcast exploring the intersection of well-being, sustainability, and social change. Consistently
ranked in the top 10% of podcasts globally at the time, known for a thoughtful, research-informed approach and
in-depth conversations with global experts on systems-level challenge$ across environmental and public health.

Selected conversations: Cara Santa l\faria, Gael O'Sullivan; David .0.Ieiklejohn.

Writing (selected)

"A Powerful Link Between Research and Practice" -              Feature on the PIER Fellowship, published by the
Harnrd Grnduate School of Education (Apr 15, 2019).
"'The Effects of Police Violence on Inner-City Students" -   lntervie,v/ story with Strategic Data Project (Aug
21, 2020).

"How Digital Health is Bringing Personalized Cancer Care to Veterans" - Story published on gene.com
(i\fav 20, 2021 ).



Education
Master of Arts, Strategic Communication, \X'estminster College, Salt Lake City, UT                          2014
Bachelor of Arts, Anthropology, Uni,·ersity of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT                                     2008
