Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting ~   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes □ No ~ Undetermined D
                         Denied □   Approved ~ Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: - -~_Lj__



Agendas -Agendas for March 3, 2026, City Council Work Session, CDRA and Business
Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 2/17/2026.


CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING

3.0    REPORTS
3a.    Ridgecrest Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary Update Principal Sarah Allen
3b.    Prevent Child Abuse Utah Deondra Brown
3c.    CHPRD Master Plan Presentation Lyse Durrant

4.0    STAFF REPORTS
4a.    Staff Report/ Communications Strategy/Newsletter Discussion Jared Gerber
4b.    Staff Report/ America 250 Discussion Barbara Higgins



CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

4.0    Action Items
4.1    Resolution 2026-16
4.2    Resolution 2026-17
                    AGENDAS

                   March 3, 2026

City Council Work Session, CORA and Business Meeting
                       Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to bttps://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     1.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion ( l 0-15 min.)

              3.     REPORTS

                   a. Ridgecrest Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary Update
                      Principal Sarah Allen (30 min.)
                   b. Prevent Child Abuse Utah
                      Deandra Brown (JO min.)
                   c. CHPRD Master Plan Presentation
                      Lyse Durrant (20 min.)

              4.     STAFFREPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staJJprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or for staff to bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Communications Strategy/Newsletter Discussion
                      City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)
                   b. America 250 Discussion
                      Administrative Services Director Barbara Higgins (IO min.)


              5.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                   a. Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit-Monday, February
                      20th to Monday, March 1811\ 2026
                   b. The Jazz Ambassadors of The United States Army Field Band -
                      Thursday, March 19th , 2026, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at Butler Middle
                      School. (Tickets required, Free Event)
     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Community
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                NOTICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
               RENEWAL AGENCY BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Community Development and Renewal
Agency will hold a Business Meeting beginning at or about 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March
3, 2026, in the Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal
Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the
meeting through live broadcast by connecting to the city's YouTube channel:
https:/ /www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.

         1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
        2.0      DISCUSSION
        2.1      Town Center Open Space Discussion - City Manager Jared Gerber I CED
                 Director Jim Spung

        3.0      POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION,
                 PURCHASE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE
                 CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR
                 PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
                 OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED
                 MEETINGS UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR
                 OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

        4.0       APPROVAL OF MINUTES
                  The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The Agency's
                  secreta,y promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board members, who then
                  will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to the secretary. The
                  secreta,y will then circulate a revised draft ofthe minutes to the Board members, and the same
                  review process will continue until such time as no corrections to the draft minutes are received
                  within the three business days review period, whereupon that draft of the minutes will be
                  deemed approved and will become the final minutes of the meeting.

         s.o      ADJOURN

On Thursday, Februa,y 26, 2026, a copy ofthe foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the/i-ont foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cot1011wood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake
Tribune and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. 171e
agenda was also posted 011 the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at
/,11p:/1p111n.111ah. go,·.

DATED this 26th day ofFebmary 2026                                       Tiffany Janzen, Agency Secretary

The city building/or this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests/or reasonable acco111111odation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-
944-7015 or reconler(a clwtah.go,·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                                      -="
                                                   f ;t, '\   '
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                          City between the mnyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impe1tinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                       "During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons affending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not affend the meeting eitherphysically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before noon on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admiffed info the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.


               4.0     ACTION ITEMS
               4.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-16 Approving an Agreement with
                       Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services.
                       (By this resolution the council will approve the city 's entry info an independent
                       contractor agreement whereunder Perkins Engineering, Inc. will provide
                           engineering and related services in connection with the city's planned construction
                           or reconstruction ofan East/West crossing on the North side ofthe 3000 East and
                           Cottonwood Parkway signalized intersection, to coincide with the existing Big
                           Cottonwood Canyon Trail under City's project no. 006.26).
                  4.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-17 Approving an Agreement with the
                           State of Utah Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo and Identity.
                           (By this resolution the council will recognize the "Cottonwood Heights Utah 250
                           Community Committee" and approve an agreement with the Utah Department of
                           Cultural and Community Engagement to coordinate the city's use of the
                           "America250" name, logo and brand identity in connection with our nation's
                           upcoming 25(Ji' anniversary).

                  5.0      CONSENT CALENDAR
                  5.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                           Meetings ofFebmary 17, 2026.

                  6.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                        PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen c01mnent. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by d1e Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
     name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their co1mnents to no more than five (S)
     minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment pe1iod shall be allowed to comment
     more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be dete1mined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.


011 Thursday, Februa,y 26, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in tl,e front .foyer of
the Coflonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. T71e agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.ch.u1ah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at h11p:/ pnm.uwh. gov.

DATED this 26th day of Febmary 2026                                      Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building.for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests.for reasonable acco111111odation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or recorder{a c/1.urah.goi-, at least two business days be.fore the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
         MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 2/17/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION HELD
TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 17, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                        Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                                Member Ellen Bin·ell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland (via Zoom),
                                Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:                  City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                                Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Assistant Police
                                Chief, Chris McHugh; Administrative Services Director, Barbara
                                Higgins; City Recorder, Jiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                                Development Director, Jim Spung; Planner III, Sheldon Howa; IT
                                Manage, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                                Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0    WELCOME - Mavor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lyim Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0    REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA -Mayor Gay Lvnn Be1111io11.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pl.edge of Allegiance would be led
by Council Member Hyland, followed by the City Council Committee Reports and Citizen Conunent
Period.

Item 5.1 was a Public Heming to receive input on the proposed Budget Amendments for the 2025-
2026 Fiscal Year. Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reported that the amendments were predominantly
for Fund transfers, including $400,000 in County Option Sales Tax revenue that would be booked
into the General Fund and transferred to the Capital Projects Fund. The additional revenues received
from Butlerville Days and the Arts Council play were also included.

Item 6 was the Cottonwood Heights Police Department Quarterly Report, followed by five Action
Items. Item 7. I was Consideration of Ordinance 462, Adopting an Amended Budget for I July 2025
through 30 June 2026.

Mayor BiITell reported that there was an etTor on the aimouncement for Item 7 .2, Consideration of
Resolution 2026-12 Making Appointments to the Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Board. Council
Member Birrell will continue serving on the UFA Board.

Item 7 .3 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-13 Approving and Ratifying the Appointments of
Members to the Cottonwood Heights Citizens Budget Advisory Committee. Item 7.4 was
Consideration of Resolution 2026-14 Approving a Consulting Agreement for Budgetary Matters.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        1
Item 7.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-15 Approving an Appointment to the Health in the
Heights Advisory Committee. City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that the appointee was Danielle
Lecourt, who has a communications background and can assist with messaging. With the
appointment, there is only one open position on the 25-member committee.

The final Agenda item was the Consent Calendar. Mayor Bennion and Council Member Hyland
stated that they had forwarded minor changes to City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen. Council Member
BiITell remarked that the way things are stated and what is included in the minutes is very helpful.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.1   Wasatch Front Waste and Recvcling District- Geueral Manager Evan Tvrrell.

General Manager, Evan Tynell, presented the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
("WFWRD") update. THE WFWRD operates as an enterprise fund and receives no tax revenue or
subsidies. They are actively looking at ways to reduce costs and keep rates as low as possible.

The base residential rate increased to $26 per month in 2025. Services provided with that rate include:

      •   Weekly garbage and recycling collection;
      •   Seasonal Container Reservation Program ("SCRP") bulk waste collection;
      •   Landfill vouchers;
      •   Central glass drop-off locations;
      •   Container repair and replacement;
      •   Seasonal services, including leaf bag and Christmas tree collection;
      •   Education and outreach initiatives; and
      •   In-house customer service and account management.

Additional services:

      •   Curbside green waste reclamation: $12 per month; and
      •   Curbside glass recycling; $8.50 per month.

In 2025, WFWRD collected:

      •   109,064 tons of curbside garbage;
      •   18,410 tons of recycling;
      •   5,900 tons of mate1ial through the SCRP program; and
      •   Over 1,200 tons of leaf bags.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Tyrrell clarified that the curbside
green waste fee is charged all year. The program cutTently starts in early March and ends in mid-
December, but they are consideting extending the program to December 31.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026      Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        2
Mr. Tyn-ell reviewed a chart of the WFWRD service area and collection dates. They service almost
10,000 homes in Cottonwood Heights with a total of 2,320 trash, recycling, green, and glass cans.
There are almost 1,800 green waste and 400 curbside glass collection subsc1ibers in the City. All
Cottonwood Heights waste is brought to the Salt Lake Valley Transfer Station and Rocky Mountain
Recycling Materials Recovery Facility. In 2025, approximately 15,000 tons of materials were
collected curbside, not including leaf, scrap, and bulk waste.

Council Member Birrell asked if the WF\1/RD evaluates per-capita consumption. Mr. Tyrrell stated
that they may have conducted that research in the past, but had not done so recently. However, the
data they have been collecting will enable them to do so in the future. The number of residences
serviced changes each month, but they are starting to evaluate that type of data. In response to a
follow-up question from Council Member Birrell, he reported that WFWRD only services
approximately 3,000 households in the eastern portion Q!__,_Munay, not the entire city.

The WFWRD Board of Trnstees will be reviewing a cost comparison for the tri-county area at its
March 2 meeting. The comparison includes botl! public and private services in Salt Lake, Utah, and
Davis Counties. It is difficult to do an apples-to-apples comparison because each service provider
provides different tiers of service. For example, some providers only collect recycling bi-weekly, and
others have weekly collection. Disposal processing costs will a1so be discussed. Tipping costs are
higher in Herriman because they utilize the Trans Jordan Landfill facility, which has a higher cost per
ton of $41. By contrast, the Salt Lake Valley Transfer Station cost $37 per ton, which resulted in a
lower total disposal cost for Cottonwood Heights. Millcreek has a high number of green waste and
glass subscriptions, which sigrrificantly reduces its disposal costs.

Council Member BiITell asked if the number of households that subscribe to green waste and glass
recycling con-elates with the City's socioeconomic makeup. Mr. Tyrrell did not have that information
available.

A chart of 2025 recycling costs through Rocky Mountain Recycling and Waste Management was
reviewed. Rocky Mountain Recycling is more centrally located and generally more cost-effective.
However, the p1ices are driven by global commodity markets and can be quite volatile. If cardboard
is in high demand, its value increases and processing costs decrease. Composition audits also affect
p1icing. If a high percentage of contamination (non-recyclable waste) is found during an audit, the
price will increase. WFWRD reviews this data regularly and will reroute recycling to an alternate
facility if it results in cost savings.

2025 WFWRD revenues artd expenses were discussed. Mr. TyITell reported that many of the year's
initiatives were due to efforts by his predecessor, Pam Robe1ts, to lower costs and keep rates as low
as possible, and he is confident that there will be no rate increases until at least 2027. Revenues came
in over budget and expenses under budget as a result of efforts in the following areas:

    •   Slight reduction in staffing and position reclassification;
    •   Optimized routing, including using cameras and GPS to reduce the number of "missed can"
        reroutes. SCRP and landfill voucher program enhancements;
    •   Vendor negotiations and rate reductions; and


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        3
    •   Purchase of diesel trucks rather than compressed natural gas ("CNG") trucks as the resale
        value of CNG equipment is very low while its purchase price has increased dramatically. A
        new diesel truck costs approximately $50,000 less than a CNG truck.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Tynell reported that eight new trucks
were budgeted for 2026, but that number will likely be reduced. Council Member Binell suggested
that the City conduct a FlashVote survey to detennine citizens' position on diesel versus CNG trncks
from an air-quality standpoint. Council Member Holton stated that the Board discussed the matter in
detail but believed that they needed to find ways to save money, and moving to diesel was a
unanimous decision. Mr. Tyrrell reported that diesel trucks now have better environmental controls,
and their resale value is significantly higher. The cu1Tent fleet consists of 56 trucks with a replacement
schedule of eight per year, so moving to diesel saves a minimum of $400,000 per year.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Tyrrell reported that the industry
standard is to replace trncks every seven years, but that depends on the number of hours and miles on
each trnck. WFWRD typically replaces its side-load trucks at six to eight years of age.

Mr. Tyrrell reviewed Cottonwood Heights specific data and reported that curbside refuse tons
decreased from 12,280 in 2024 to 11,557 in 2025. Recycling, green waste, glass, SCRP, etc.,
remained steady. Service orders for things like replacing cans increased slightly.

Council Member Holton stated that Mr. Tyrrell had a tough job coming into his role and has taken an
innovative approach to reviewing and suggesting changes to each program. The Board consists of 15
entities, and most of its__ decisions have been unanimous. Mr. Tyrrell stated that he has developed a
series of priorities, goals, and initiatives for the calendar year, and they will be documenting both the
qualitative and quantitative benefits of those programs.

In 2025, Cottonwood Heights dive1ted 20% of its waste away from the landfill, which is higher than
the district average of 18. 7%. A1ong with Holladay and Millcreek, it consistently outperforms other
cities in th,e service area. WFWRD created a new-recycling guide on accepted items for each program
and is reviewing partner cities' websites for compliance. The new guide stresses the importance of
not bagging recyclable materials as they are considered contaminated and routed to the landfill.

Council Member Birrell asked if consumers need to look at the number on the bottom of plastic items.
Mr. Tyrrell stated that plastics are the most complicated item to recycle. Some facilities can recover
plastics rated 1, 2, and 5: Rocky Mountain Recycling accepts the other numbers as well and routes
them to a waste-to-energy facility. Things like strawbeny containers and salad clamshells are rated 1,
but they are often not captured for recycling. Council Member Bin-ell stated that the new guide is
helpful, but it does not answer questions about other types of plastic that may contaminate the bin.
Mr. Tyn-ell clarified that bottles, jars, jugs, and tubs are recovered for recycling, but salad clamshells
are not and are considered contamination. Recyclables should be empty, clean, and dry. WFWRD
can provide more infonnation and a1rnnge facility tours for interested Council Members.

Youth Council Mayor, Mary Arm Jensen, asked about recyclable garbage bags. Mr. Tyrrell stated
that plastic film bags should not be placed in recycling containers. Recyclables need to be loose in
the bin, not bagged. Plastic film and bags can be recycled at various retail stores.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        4
Mr. TytTell provided updates on the SCRP program. Repeat users were minimized with a new
tracking system in 2025. The fee-based trailer rental program was discontinued, and SCRP program
capacity will be ramped up to better meet bulk waste demands in 2026. They are also considering
revamping the program in 2027. Council Member Holton stated that they are considering curbside
pickup and other options. Council Member Newell remarked that previously, the containers were
centralized on a street so multiple households could utilize them. Although everyone can still use
them, because they are now placed in driveways, other residents are hesitant to do so. Mr. Tynell
stated that the program was decentralized because people would place items all around the container,
which created a lot of extra work. They plan to increase the number of containers per day from 60 to
a minimum of72 in 2026.

WFWRD's 2026 initiatives are designed to identify areas that can be streamlined, maxumze
efficiency, reduce costs, and delay future rate increases. Their goal is to operate as efficiently as
possible by optimizing programs and services without reducing service levels. They will be absorbing
increased tipping fees, as well as labor and fuel costs.

The following new fees were planned for 2026:

    •   A payment transaction fee has been tentatively adopted to cover the cost of credit card
        processing for credit and debit cards. This will encourage customers to use other payment
        methods like ACH that cost less to process.
    •   Late set-out return pickup fee of $25 per request.
    •   Recycling contamination fee of $25.00 after three or more documented occun-ences.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Tynell reported that each truck has
a camera that points into the hopper, and drivers can make note of any significant or problematic
items. There is also a quality assurance team that inspects recycling containers throughout the year.
If conta111ination is found, the bin is tagged and documented. They have seen a significant reduction
in contamination rates. For example, from 2022 to 2025, the contamination rate in Cottonwood
Heights decreased by 8.07%. Residents are educated through their enhanced website and new flyers,
as well as community events and the efforts of local City Councils.

Mayor Bennion serves on the Salt Lake Valley Council of Govenunents Solid Waste Board. She has
visited the facility, which they expect to last until 2050 but may last longer ifresidents continue to
reduce waste.

Mayor Bennion introduced Youth Council Mayor, Mary Ann Jensen and reported that she was
shadowing Council Member Birrell for the day. Council Member Hyland expressed her gratitude to
Ms. Jensen for attending but asked that she refrain from asking questions, as no other citizens can
engage in the discussion during work sessions.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026    Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                         5
4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1   Public Safety Firearms Training Facilitv - City Manager Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber presented on the proposed Wasatch Front Regional Public Safety Firearms Training
Facility and displayed photographs of other training facilities. The facility will enhance law
enforcement readiness, provide live-fire and scenario-based training, and suppo1t deescalation tactics
and address current threats. Assistant Police Chief, Cluis McHugh reported that the manufacturer's
parent company, MILO, is well-known for simulator and use-of-force training. The Utah Attorney
General's Office purchased their simulator through MILO.

The facility will cover many use-of-force siluations, and eacn simulation evolves based on the
officer's reaction. If there is an issue with an officer, they can set up a scenario that mimics what they
expe1ienced in the field and retrain them on how they should have responded. It will provide the
opportunity for real-world training on events that happened elsewhere in the country. 1t will also be
a firing range as patrol officers must qualify twfce yearly on pistols and once on rifles. The only
ranges in the area are in Mu1Tay and Salt Lake County, and it is difficult to-reserve range time. The
Mun-ay range is over 20 years old and has been out of service for three months, waiting on parts.

Chief Russo stated that the facility will be similar to the Attorney General's simulator, except the
officer can use their own fireanns and live fire in the scenarios.

Mr. Gerber stated that the facility will serve the Cottonwood Heights Police Depaiiment and up to 20
other agencies in the Salt Lake Valley. Other police chiefs have shown great interest in using the
facility, as it is hard to reserve time at the other area ranges.

The facility will be a prefabricated, modular unit and include six 25-yard lanes. It will have both live
fire and virtual reality simulations and features OSHA-approved ventilation and ballistic containment.
AssistantChief McHugh stated that old facilities u_tilized rubberized bullet traps that must be emptied,
decontaininated, and cleaned every six months. This facility will funnel bullets into a self-contained
lead conta1runent trap that is sealed and picked up by a lead disposal company.

Chief Russo stated that the grant required that the facility have no constmction costs, and only two
vendors could comply with this provision. Utah-based Action Anns is very expensive and does not
offer a combination simulator/range or prefabricated facility. The MILO facility will be
approximately half the cost and much more efficient. Mr. Gerber added that the original request was
for over $4 million because they were considering the Action Anns product.

Benefits of the facility include:

      •   The Cottonwood Heights Police Department will have the first pick of training options.
      •   Potential monthly revenue of $5,000 to $10,000 per month, which will cover operating and
          maintenance costs.
      •   Rapid deployment.
      •   Eco-friendly and compliant.
      •   Flexible training options.

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                         6
   •   Exterior design elements.

Chief Russo remarked that the challenge will not be how to keep the facility booked, but how to
allocate the time fairly. He anticipates a high demand from local, state, county, and federal
organizations. The City pays Mutrny $500 per day to use their facility, and the new Cottonwood
Heights facility will be a much better range.

In response to a question from Council Member BiLTell, Assistant ChiefMcHugh reporied that Mun-ay
has 12 to 13 lanes, but two are not in use. Cities book the entire range. The Cottonwood Heights
facility will be in high demand due to the simulator. Utah requires both live-fire and use-of-force
training. Chief Russo stated that six lanes is a good number that allows for efficient use of the facility.
In response to a follow-up question, Assistant Chief McHugh c9nfinned that live-fire and simulator
training can be conducted at the same time. There is a col}trol room at the front of the facility, two
bays per area, and the three training areas are separated by ballistic materials. A full shift of
Cottonwood Heights police officers could participate in fireann qualification training or use-of-force
training at the same time. Chief Russo added tliaEit is important to train officers in groups so they
are prepared for major events where they will arrive together. Civilian school guardians must also be
trained and ce1iified, and that training is not cun-ently available anywhere in Salt Lake County.

Council Member Newell asked about public use. Chief Russo stated that it would be a City Council
decision, but opening it to the public would have 1isks. Assistant Chief McHugh reported that there
are currently eight fireanns instructors on staff, and he intends to send some new officers to training
as well. However, to run an open range, a rangemaster must be on-site at all times. Council Member
Newell stated that he was not interested in that option due to liability concerns. However, the citizenry
is anned, and it would_b~ good for those with pennits to participate in firearms training. No training
is required for a pennit, but it would be advantageous to train residents who are willing to pay a fee
for training from a qualified instructor. Council Member Hyland stated that the most impactful part
of the Citizens Academy for her was when they went to the range. She was shocked at how effective
scenario training can be. Assistant Chief McHugh agreed that many people who carry fireanns have
not been properly trained.

Mr. Gerber statt!d that the current focus was on state and federal law enforcement trainings as opening
the facility the public would create staffing and liability issues. When the police department goes to
a range, it provides its own rangemaster and three to four fireanns instructors. Other departments
would be trained on operation of the range, and one Cottonwood Heights officer would inspect the
facility before and after use.

Council Member Hyland reiterated the importance of the Citizens Academy. The next session begins
in two weeks, and anyone interested in participating should contact the Cottonwood Heights Police
Department. Council Member Holton recounted a specific training scenario. Council Member
Newell remarked on the importance of firearms training.

Mr. Gerber stated the exterior design enhancements that were included in the grant. They initially
considered placing the facility at the Public Works building, but detennined that there is not sufficient
space there. Two possible locations had been identified near the retention ponds at City Hall. The
preferred location was adjacent to the Police Department but canied significant additional costs.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                        7
Site preparation costs:

   •   Near the Police Depmtment: $200,420;
   •   West of City Hall: $38,500;
   •   Concrete pad: $110,000; and
   •   Liability insurance: Approximately $3,500 per year.

Mr. Gerber reported that other entities have expressed a willingness to cover the above costs. Council
Member Holton stated that there are enough commitments to fully cover the costs of placing the
facility west of City Hall. With direction from the City Council, they can obtain finn commih11ents
to ensure that the costs are covered by donations.

Mayor Bennion asked about concerns with locating the facility near Brighton High School, as well
as potential noise or environmental impacts. Assistant Chief McHugh stated that it is self-contained
and carries no safety or environmental concerns_. The manufacturer has never had a failure, and the
facility is built to withstand much higher calibers than will be fired. There is some noise, but it is
rated below OSHA standards. Fifteen feet from the building, the noise generated is less than that of
a car. They had discussed installing tall shrubs to further block the sound.

The facility also meets all environmental standards as long as the filters are maintained. It is a
negative pressure building with two filters-at the rear, a pre-filter and HEPA filter. Pre-filters are
changed monthly, and HEPA filters are changed quarterly. Action Target will remove and pay for
the lead with a credit that can be used for filter replacements. The filter cost is approximately $15,000
per year, which shoulcl decrease to $4,000 after lead credits are applied. Chief Russo repo1ted that
Murray makes enough to also pay for its paper targets.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, City Attorney, Shane Topham, stated
that the City is not legally required to conduct a· fee study before setting fees, but it may be advisable
if they ar~ competing with other entities. Mr. Gerber stated that the facility can be incorporated into
the planed 2027 citywide fee study. Council Member Binell asked for a fee study as part of a
comprehensive business plan, as the City Council needs to study the financial aspects and understand
the impact of locating the facility in a residential area.

Mayor Bennion remarked that gun ranges typically need a comprehensive wet cleaning to remove
lead paiticles and dust and asked_if this facility would need similar cleaning. Assistant Chief McHugh
stated that he would speak with the manufacturer and rep01t back to the Council. 1n response to a
question raised by Mayor Bennion, Assistant Chief McHugh reported that frangible (non-lead)
ammunition costs approximately twice as much as lead anununition. If other agencies brought in
lead ammunition and did not notify the City, it would contaminate the facility. However, it can be
done. Chief Russo stated that training ammunition typically costs $40,000 per year. Mayor Bennion
indicated that it might be wo1th $80,000 per year to avoid lead contamination. Assistant Chief
McHugh stated that it might decrease the number of agencies that want to rent the facility, but it
would also decrease filter replacement and interior cleaning costs. He used frangible ammunition in
the military, and it is comparable to traditional ammunition as long as it is purchased from a reputable
supplier.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026        Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                        8
Mayor Bennion asked about other facilities in similar climates and if the building can handle snow.
Assistant Chief McHugh stated that it will need to be on a regular maintenance schedule for things
like paint, but other facilities are located in cold climates, and they will have gas heat.

Mayor Bennion expressed surprise that the item was not discussed by the Council in the summer, as
it would have been beneficial to have a full discussion at that time. Cow1cil Member Holton reported
that the grant application was submitted two years ago, but the federal government passed continuing
resolutions rather than a budget. All community funding was shelved and applications had to be
resubmitted. The application that was submitted in 2025 was exactly the same as the previous
application. Council Member Newell stated that it was first discussed in a 2024 Work Session and
Council communication, and then again at the 2025 Budget Retreat. Council Member BiiTell asked
for evidence that it had been deliberated in a publicly sighted meeting.

Council Member Holton stated that the approp1iation had been awarded, and it was communicated
and supported by the City Council and Staff at the time. A program to help public safety across the
nation awarded $2.l million to the City without a matching funds requirement, and citizens were
willing to pay the additional costs to ensure that police officers have proper training without the City
expending its resources. He did not believe the decision was made in secret, as it had been discussed
in Council meetings and is on the record, and he hoped the Council saw it as a great opportunity.

Council Member Bi1Tell stated that she ~ in favor of more and better training. The City had a
wrongful death suit filed against it for use of force, and there has been great interest in de-escalation
training in recent years. She understands that many people are enthused about the opportunity, but
they would be taking on an additional building project and need to ensure proper funding for its
operation and maintenance. The City is in a budget crunch due to a lack of such planning. She
believes the item needs more scrutiny. She asked if the Department of Justice funding can be applied
to constrnction and other elements.

Council Member Holton stated that he did not see how the City's police officers could be provided
with better training than this facility offers. The funding is for police equipment only, and the self-
contained facility can be purchased with it. He agreed that Cottonwood Heights has a tight budget,
but the City does not need to purchase it, and it can be moved if a future Council determines that it is
not self-sustaining.

Council Member Hyland reported that a City Journal recap of the 2025 Budget Retreat discussed the
facility, so it had been discussed. The Council just did not have the specific details until recently.
Mayor Bennion stated that locating the facility so close to City Hall and residences was not discussed.
She requested that Staff prepare annual expense and revenue estimates for the facility. A resident
who is a fo1rner police officer estimated over $100,000 per year in costs for software, insurance,
equipment maintenance, calibration, and lead recovery. She hoped that frangible ammunition would
be looked at as a possibility. She fully suppo1ts Cottonwood Heights police officers being prepared
in every way possible, but they also need to look at all the financial parameters that had not yet been
fully discussed.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        9
Assistant Chief McHugh stated that because MILO is primarily a use-of-force training company,
software updates are included in the purchase cost. Filters are an additional cost of approximately
$17,400 per year, not including lead credits. Murray funds most of their filters, targets, etc., through
lead sales. He does not want the City to be in a situation where they cannot afford something because
they had not thought of it. Mr. Gerber repo1ted that hardware upgrades will be necessary at some
point. Assistant Chief McHugh stated that rental revenue should be set aside for those costs.

Chief Russo invited a City Council Member join him on a tour ofMILO's Las Vegas facility. Council
Member Newell stated that he would like Staff to speak with two or three of MILO's current
customers regarding their experience. Council Member Hyland will join Chief Russo on the Las
Vegas trip. Mayor Bennion asked if the donors would be interested in funding the trip so the funds
can be put toward other essential costs.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges reported that the City Council
can restrict funds for ce11ain purposes. However, those funds will not be available for other expenses,
so they should be careful about restricting too many revenue sources. He recommended that it be a
line item rather than a restricted fund. This type of expense belongs in the General Fund budget, but
a Profit and Loss statement can be generated based on the activity.

Mayor Bennion thanked the Council for the discussion and expressed her supp011 for keeping the
City's police officers fully trained.

        4.2     Interfaith Coalition Discussion - Mayor Gay Lynn Ben11io11.

Mayor Bennion stated that Holladay has had an Interfaith Council for 24 years, and Millcreek sta11ed
one in 2022. She invited Jerrea Chamberlain, Paul Chamberlain, and Rob Dahle to discuss Holladay's
Interfaith Coalition.

Mr. Chamberlain stated that he and Ms. Chamberlain are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and they had been building interfaith bridges by visiting different faith communities
in the Cottonwood Heights area over the past several months. They have become ftiends with
members of the Muslim, Jewish, Catholic, and Anglican faiths. Holladay has a great model of a
community- and unity-building, service-oriented initiative that can bless any community. The
Greater Salt Lake Interfaith Ro1.1J1dtable began during the 2002 Olympics, and there are also smaller
city roundtables. They hope to facilitate an Interfaith Coalition in Cottonwood Heights.
Ms. Chamberlain stated that it is a time of disunity in politics, and the coalition moves away from
that. All religions have things in common; they want to be neighborly and love their brothers and
sisters, and the Interfaith Coalition can foster that.

Mr. Dahle stated that modem politics purposely divides people, which is not healthy. The interfaith
model brings people with different philosophies together to learn about each other. Everyone wants
a safe place to raise their family and has similar values, and the discussions help them realize that
they have more in common than not. He served on the Holladay Interfaith Council when he was the
mayor and formed very close friendships there. He did not know why a city would not want to do it.
Holladay did not fomrnlize their group because they did not see the need. Their Interfaith Council
includes eight different religions, and they have an annual Thanksgiving service two Sw1days before

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       10
Thanksgiving. Each service has both a youth and adult speaker who speaks on gratitude. Between
500 and 600 people typically attend. They also have monthly meetings and hold one fundraising
event each year.

Council Member Hyland stated that anything that increases understanding and acceptance is
worthwhile. However, she was unclear as to what they were requesting. Mr. Dahle stated that the
Holladay budget is $2,000 to cover lunches and some food for events.

Council Member Newell stated that he is a man of faith, but he is also a man of the Constitution. The
First Amendment requires separation of church and state and created a clear wall between faith and
governance. This would sanction a faith event, which is prohibited by the Constitution. He works
with a group that would bring together 70 faith leaders for a safety event at the Thomas S. Monson
Center the following week. However, that event is separate from any municipality or his work at the
City. He is concerned about having this type of conversation as a municipality. Mr. Dahle stated that
the issue did not arise in Holladay. lt does not single out a specific faith; all faiths are welcome, as
are agnostic and atheist citizens.

Council Member Birrell stated that she is in favor of anything that helps the conummity be healthier
and more connected. She was not opposed to fonding an Interfaith Coalition but believed it should
begin infonnally. Everyone is stressed by many factors, and anything that can be done to cultivate a
sense of unity, community, and service should be encouraged.

Ms. Chamberlain stated that it could be a commm1ity council, not an interfaith council.
Mr. Chamberlain stated that their request might be for space for a monthly meeting. It would not
need to be sponsored or fonded by the City. There is an overlap between the faith and nonprofit
communities. Mr. Dahle stated that each year, they highlight a nonprofit. In 2025, they highlighted
New Roots, which advocates for people fanning their own food.

Council Member Hyland asked what specifically Holladay did for its Interfaith Council. Mr. Dahle
stated that it h as been active for 24 years, and Holladay provides $2,000 in annual funding.

Council Member Holton stated that at the 2024 Council Retreat, he brought up the idea of creating or
supporting a nonprofit to help residents serve one another. The City Council did not support his idea
because there is no fair way to choose which group to support. It must be left to residents to take the
initiative to build up the group they want to support and work with one another. The City Council is
supportive, but it does not formally engage. He was disappointed at the time, but he understands the
reasoning because you cannot choose one group over all the others.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the Emerald Hills Institute in Cottonwood Heights is a similar
organization. Mr. Chamberlain stated that he would like to invite their Interfaith Dialogue Director,
Zeynep Kariparduc, to j oin the coalition. Council Member Hyland stated that their mission is to
"work with individuals and organizations of all backgrounds and faiths to learn more about each
other, cooperate on meaningful projects, and build stronger bonds. Emerald Hills Institute stlives for
social justice, interfaith cooperation, advocacy for positive change and connections, relationship
building," etc. To Council Member Holton's point, there is no way to choose.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       11
Council Member Newell stated that if the Council gives the Interfaith Coalition a space for meetings,
they must provide everyone else with space as well. They cannot say yes to one organization and
justify saying no to others because that is not equitable. Council Member Hyland indicated that the
Emerald Hills Institute was charged a fee to hold a banquet at City Hall.

Mr. Chamberlain stated that the Emerald Hills institute is a 50 l (c)(3) nonprofit, and they were trying
to create a grassroots community coalition. Mr. Dahle stated that Holladay's Interfaith Council has
been very positive for the c01rununity and they have never had issues with it.

Mayor Bennion asked Rachel Quinney to introduce herself. Ms. Quinney stated that she belongs to
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and has collaborated with the Chamberlains. She was
inspired by the meeting in Holladay because it was community-building. She saw people of different
faiths working together as one body; eve1yone had equal voices and wanted to hear from each other.
She believes an Interfaith Coalition would serve the citizens of Cottonwood Heights. Mayor Bennion
asked if she would be interested in building the coalition, and she would be excited to do so.

Mayor Be1mion stated that Ms. Qui1mey could help build the coalition, and it could meet in churches,
not City Hall. They would not require funding or any other commitment from the City. Any Council
Members who are interested can simply involve any faith leaders they know, and it will be entirely
separate from the City. The City Council agreed. Council Member Hyland stated that they are
suppmted and welcome in Cottonwood Heights.

Mr. Chamberlain stated that they hoped to follow the example of Millcreek and Holladay, as they
have seen it work well in those cities. However, if it is not the right fit for the City as a government
entity, they will still find a way to make it happen.

Mayor Bem1ion stated that she spoke with Millcreek Mayor Cheri Jackson, who indicated that their
Interfaith Coalition is tied to the city through its Promise Foundation. Their coalition was very helpful
during the Fall 2025 fire. A coalition can be very helpful for Cottonwood Heights, even if it is not
tied to the City. She will be asking Ms. Quinney and Ms. Kariparduc to lead the coalition together.

Council Member Newell remarked that the Faith and Culture Safety and Security Symposiwn also
involves law enforcement. However, local government is not involved in it. He acts as a conduit,
and he believes that method may work well with the Interfaith Coalition and will assuage concerns
about the First Amendment.

        4.3     City Hall Hours Discussion - Citv Manager Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City had been on a pilot program where employees could work either
five eight-hour days or four ten-hour days. The program has gone well, but management of the
vaiying schedules can be difficult. The front office has tracked how many calls and in-person visits
they receive each Friday. An average of seven to eight people come to City Hall on F1idays, at least
half of whom have appointments to see specific people. On busy weeks, there are approximately 15
calls. He asked for the Council's input on a new pilot program where City offices are open Monday
through Thursday from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and closed on Friday. lf a holiday falls on a Sunday,


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       12
the City will be closed on Monday. If it falls on Friday, it will be closed on Thursday. If it falls on
Saturday, managers will offer flex time to their staff, but the offices will not close.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber confinned that remote work
would be eliminated. Council Member Hyland stated that she spoke with a Midvale employee who
indicated that they went to a four-ten workweek during COVID with the understanding that they
would have to go back to a standard schedule if there were a lot of complaints. She is in favor of the
trial pe1iod as it is a positive fringe benefit that will not cost anything and can attract quality candidates
to Cottonwood Heights. Mr. Gerber remarked that the Public Works Department has not received
any complaints about being closed on F1idays for the past six months, but they rarely get visitors.
Council Member Hyland stated that she would have accepted a lower salary for this type of benefit.
Council Member Bi1Tel1 stood with Council Member Hyland.

Council Member Holton stated that he would like to have someone at City Hall on Fridays. Eagle
Mountain works Monday through Thursday, but their clerk is in the office for four hours on Fridays.
He understands that it would present an admini~ative challenge. In response to a question raised by
Mayor Bennion, City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen reported that there are usually three to four employees
in the front office. It would be difficult to have one employee alone in the office. Council Member
Newell asked about having a phone message indicating that the offices are closed on Fridays.
Mr. Gerber stated that Staff had discussed having someone on call, but that employee would need to
be paid for their time.

Council Member Hyland expressed concern about Mayor Bennion being alone at City Hall for her
Friday open office hours. Mayor Bennion stated that she can meet with citizens in the lobby, and the
police will be down the hall. Council Member Hyland reiterated her concern in light of the cmTent
level of political divisiven_ess. Mr. Gerber stated that they can discuss security measw-es. Mayor
Bennion remarked that she can move office hours to Thursdays if necessary.

Mayor Bennion stated that its employees are critical to Cottonwood Heights, and the sho1ter
workwe~Jc w1II give them a benefit without additional cost to the City.

5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Senior Bh1go at City Hall - Wednesday. February 18, 2026, at 1:30 p.m. at City
                Hall.
        5.2     Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit - Monday, February 20 to
                Monday, March 18, 2026.
        5.3     The Jazz Ambassadors of the US Army Field Band - Thursday, March 19 from
                7:00 PM to 8:30 PM at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free event, See
                City website for additional information).
        5.4     Cottonwood Heights City Book Club-Thursday, March 26 at 7:00 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       13
6.0    POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
       LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
       COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, OR
       ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER UTAH
       CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

Mayor Bennion reported that a Closed Meeting was necessary to discuss Character and Professional
Competence of Physical or Mental Health of an Individual.

7.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

Motion: Council Member Binell moved to ADOURN the Work Session and move into a Closed
Meeting to Discuss the Character or Professional Competence of Physical and Mental Health of an
Individual. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:28 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                       14
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                         Mayor Gay Lynn Be1mion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                                 Member Ellen BiITell, Council Member Suzmme Hyland (via Zoom),
                                 Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:                   City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                                 Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Assistant Police
                                 Chief, Cluis McHugh; Administrative Services Director, Barbara
                                 Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic
                                 Development Director, Jim Spung; Planner III, Sheldon Howa; IT
                                 Manage, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                                 Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley Pilgrim; Police Support Specialist
                                 Supervisor, Candie Terry

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Be1mion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Hyla_ng led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Reports by Council Memher Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton rep01tedthat the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District ("WFWRD")
gave a presentation to the Council during the Work Session, and he encouraged anyone who is curious
about how they are working to improve service going forward to review it. There is a bill before the
legislature that would allow municipalities to leave WFWRD by a simple council vote rather than a
vote by the WFWRD Board. It was passed in the House of Representatives earlier that day and he
believes it will also pass in the Senate. There is immense value in the service provided by WFWRD,
and it will impact the City if other municipalities leave the district. The WFWRD has moved to
monthly billing and has discussed charging a fee to pay by credit card. The trailer program has been
discontinued, hut the Seasonal Container Reservation Program ("SCRP") program is being expanded.
He asked anyone with ideas for changes or improvements to contact him.

        3.2      Committee Reports bv Cou11cil Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland rep01ted that she and Council Member BiITell were approached by citizens
about spreading the word on senior activities. The newsletter now includes a "Senior Corner" written
by those citizens, and the March newsletter will feature a map of local senior centers. There likely

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       15
will not be a senior center in Cottonwood Heights in the near future, but there are centers nearby. The
City piloted a monthly senior activity, but there was not enough participation to continue the program.
However, they will be holding quarterly events. The most requested event was bingo, and it will be
held on February 18 at 1:30 p.m. at City Hall.

Council Member Hyland also serves on the Emergency Management Committee. Nothing is
happening, which is good, but they try to be prepared. The March newsletter will also include an
article encouraging citizens to sign up for Reverse 911. The City currently does not have the software
to send a message to everyone in the area in the event of an emergency, but anyone who opts into
Reverse 91 1 will be contacted. The article will also include information on texting 911, which she
was not aware was possible. It is still better to call, but anyone in a compromised situation can text.

       3.3      Committee Reports by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell reported that he is the Health in the Heights Coalition liaison, and he has
been astonished by the number of committee lnembers who are passionate about the health of the
community and its young people. They are reviewing data to uncover trends impacting the City's
youth. He appreciates their efforts for the community. He is also part of the Canyons Education
Foundation. The Canyons Innovation-Center in Draper will be a science, technology, engineering,
and mathematics ("STEM") facility, an._d he is looking forward to it opening.

The Arts Council 's Lunar New Year event at City Hall was very successful and well-attended. The
performers and musicians were highly talented, and his grandchildren really enjoyed stenciling fans
at the event. The City does a great job of providing these types of events to bring the community
together.

        3.4     Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member BiITell has been very concerned about the unusual weather conditions. It is
importanrfor the City to prioritize sustainability and resiliency. She recently helped Staff create a
reminderTor residents that will be included in the March newsletter. It may be okay to let sod die off
during the current dry conditions, but it is important to provide trees with water.

The Collection of Hard to Recycle Materials ("CHaRM") event for unusual, hazardous, and bulk
waste items is tentatively scheduled for June 6 at either City Hall or Hillside Plaza.

The Historic Committee has set a theme of "Movement" for the year.

The Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT") Legislative Policy Committee ("LPC") provides
strong advocacy for the City. Mayor Be1mion and City Council Members attend their weekly
meetings to discuss the importance of protecting the municipality from sometimes misguided
legislation that can st1ip the City's authority.

Council Member Bine\1 is the Council Liaison to the Cottonwood Heights Recreation and Service
Dist1ict. She has been a member for the past 40 years and is enthused to be a paii of its board. She
reminded citizens to sign up for the FlashVote survey series. She also supports efforts on public

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026      Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       16
access to trails, and work is being done to realize the B01meville Shoreline Trail and provide access
to United States Forest Service lands.

        3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reported that she serves on the Unified Fire Authority Board, as well as the Benefits
and Compensation Board. She wants to ensure that firefighters and police officers are well-paid; they
work in difficult conditions and should be able to retire while they are still healthy.

She serves on the Salt Lake Valley Council of Governments Solid Waste Board. Everyone can make
an effort to reduce waste and recycle to ensure that the facility CQ11_tinues to operate for many decades.
It is planned to function until 2050, but it can last longer if citizens are good stewards of the planet.

Mayor Bennion serves on the Central Wasatch Commission, which recently put out a statement on
the proposed Parley's Mill. The request is now down to six acres. However, once a mine is started,
it can extend the length of the vein. The Commission must stand up for the values of the community.
She serves on their Short-Tenn Projects Board as well. As Mayor, it is her responsibility to be
outward-facing for the City. She is happy to see that citizens are taking advantage of the yearlong
review process for the Old Mill demolition. She believes they are making progress in finding a way
to preserve the Old Mill, even ifjust for an adaptive use.

She is also working with Council Member Binell on open access to trails to benefit both the City and
the region.

4.0     CITIZEN COl\tlMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Mike Hanson thanked the City Council for its willingness to create the Citizen Budget Committee.
Budget wo_r_k is not easy, and he appreciates anyone who will step into that responsibility. However,
there had 110t been much dialogue or meaningful public deliberation around conservation measures
in the Budget, and no discussions of temporary wage freezes, hiring pauses, or structural efficiency
reviews. Early discussions were centered on a potential tax increase. Before residents are asked to
pay more, the City owes them a deep and transparent examination of whether it can operate more
efficiently first. He challenged the Committee to conduct a conservative deep dive by examining
every depai1ment, reviewing discretionary spending, evaluating temporary wage freezes, and
considering holding more frequent work sessions. In the early years of Cottonwood Heights, the
City's financials were extremely tight. The founding Mayor and Cow1cil chose a difficult path; wages
were frozen, and weekly meetings ran late into the night. Hard choices were made before they
considered passing anything on to the taxpayer. He believes that it is a recent, valuable lesson on
fiscal discipline, and taxes should be the last tool, not the first.

He also addressed the importance of neutrality, as some members of the Committee were publicly
outspoken on political matters. That is their right as citizens. However, once they sit in the Budget
Committee, he believes their responsibilities shift as the public deserves recommendations that are
based on data, not ideology. If impartiality cannot be maintained, the honorable thing to do is to step

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       17
back because they need to represent everybody. Transparency is essential, and he requested that the
meeting minutes and Committee contact infonnation be posted publicly. Transparency builds
confidence. He believes they need to start with conservation, exhaust internal efficiencies, and honor
the set example before conside1ing making residents pay more.

Dennis Magaro stated that as a veteran, he believes in police officer trammg, especially in
deescalation. However, he agrees with Council Member Bin-ell that a feasibility study is necessary
so the City Council knows what the training facility will really cost and how much revenue it will
bring in. He did not know about the facility until a week ago, although he understands that the Council
discussed it in 2024. He disagrees with the location but understands that they may be stuck with it.

Chester Frantz thanked the Council for their work on the trails. The skate park and pickleball courts
are great facilities. He spoke about the Net Zero by 2050 initiative. A total of 190 countries have
committed to this goal. When carbon is added to the atrnosphere, the Earth's temperature increases.
If that trend continues, humanity will be in a difficult situation. Net Zero by 2050 means no carbon
after 2050, and that includes cars, trains, planes, buildings, and agticulture. He asked the City Council
to consider continuing as pait of Utah Renewable Communities ("URC"). It will only cost between
$3 and $4 per month and can bring residents' carbon footprint down to zero. A typical electric bill
can-ies $41 in external costs to the environment and public health. If someone wai1ts to offset their
carbon now, they can join the BlueSky pr~~am, which costs an average of $14 per month. URC is
a much more cost-effective way to offset carbon. Humanity is digging a clin1ate hole for its children,
and taking these low-cost steps is the least we can do.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

5.0       PUBLIC HEARING

          5.1   Public Hearing to Receive Input on the Proposed Budget Amendments for
                the 2025-2026 Fiscal Year - Introduction by Administrative and Fiscal Services
                Director Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges rep01ted that the proposed Budget Amendments were all revenue
neutral.

General Fund adjustments:

      •   State of Utah DUI, EZ Check, and Click-It police overtime reimbursements: $11,393;
      e   Restitution reimbursement: $850;
      •   Event ove1time reimbursements for CHPD: $64,609;
      •   Evidence gun sale: $3,970;
      •   Sister City donation: $1,000 ;
      •   County Local Transit Tax: $400,000 (transfers to the Capital Projects Fw1d);
      •   Wellness Council grant: $400;
      •   Rocky Mountain Power Light the Heights contiibution: $2,500;
      •   Rocky Mountain Power Historic Committee monument contribution: $3,500;


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       18
      •   Additional revenue and expenses related to Butlerville Days and Arts Council Play: $46,654;
      •   Justice Assistance Grant from the Utah Division of Public Safety: $5,916; and
      •   Total revenue General Fund adjustments: $540,792.

Capital Projects Fund:

      •   Transfer of County Local Transit Tax: $400,000

Mayor Bennion opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

6.0       REPORTS

          6.1    CHPD Quarterly Report - ChiefRobby Russo.

Police Support Specialist Supervisor, Candie Terry, reported on January 2026 statistics.

Calls for service: 1,298, a slight increase from 1,295 in 2025.

Response times:

      •   Priority 1: 02: 11
      •   Priority 2: 04: 17
      o   Priority 3: 04:07

Crime: There were 61 total crimes, an increase from 50 in January 2025 due to an increase in both
thefts and assaults.

      •   Assaults: 12
      •   Burglaries: l
      •   Thefts: 47
      •   Stolen auto: 1

Arrests: 58, a decrease from 69 in Januaiy 2025.

Trnffic:

      o   Citations: 385
      •   Warnings: 263
      •   DUis: 4

Accidents:

      •   Prope1ty damage: 23
      •   Injmy: 11



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026     Approved: _ _    _ _ __

                                                       19
Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated that the downward trend in accidents can be atttib uted to the traffic
unit's enforcement efforts.

Animal Control/ Code Enforcement: A new officer is being trained so most hours were devoted to
training. There were 24 total calls for service and 6 citations issued.

Deaths: Two attended and one unattended death.

Ms. Terry reviewed the three-month averages, property c1ime reports by district, and citation reports,
as well as total bookings for the County. Chief Russo stated that Cottonwood Heights makes far more
arrests than similar c01mnunities, and he is proud that CHPD officers are solving crimes and bringing
people to justice.

Ms. Terry reported that the heat map feature of the records management system was broken, so that
infonnation was not available. There were a total of 70 property crimes in January, including
trespassing, prope1ty damage, and theft.

Chief Russo reported that two massage parlors were closed after an investigation by CHPD.
Approximately $5,000 was seized. Both businesses were owned by the same person, and the women
involved are suspected to be victims of human trafficking. The owner has not been apprehended.
Other communities have similar businesses but choose not to go after them. However, it is a quality-
of-life issue to Chief Russo, and he will address the issue quickly if it arises again.

CHPD and UFA responded to an overdose call. The victim had overdosed on his own product, and
as a result, $30,000 anq one kilogram of cocaine were seized. Mushrooms and LSD were also seized.
There was no fentanyl, and Chief Russo repo1ted that they have not seized any fentanyl recently. A
photograph of tainted candies was displayed, and Chief Russo cautioned that children may believe
they are can_dy and accidentally ingest them.

CHPD is pJeased with the successful effort to secure $2.1 million in funding for the live-fire and
scenario training facility, which will be an important facility for the department. The facility will be
expensive, but not having properly trained police officers is also expensive and can get an officer
killed.

Chief Russo stated that the City Council had been discussing the issue with three-man UFA crews
and provided tlu·ee examples of why the understaffing issue must be addressed.

        1.      The dry weather will lead to fires. Almost an entire block was lost in the Banbury fire,
                and it is difficult for three-man engines to fight these fires.

        2.      An accident at Highland Drive and Creek Road trapped a driver under a delivery truck.
                A tlu·ee-man Sandy crew responded as UFA was unavailable. The woman was badly
                injured and all three crew members were needed to stabilize her, so they had to wait
                until more help arrived before she could be extricated.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       20
        3.      A quadtiplegic resident of District 4 was trapped inside her home by a fire. The three-
                man crew that arrived could not rescue her. Instead, they staged at her bedroom door
                and fought the fire w1til help arrived and she could be removed from the scene. A
                fourth firefighter could have removed her without putting the other crew members in
                more danger.

New police officer, Kayla Manning, was first on scene at a heart attack call and began perfonning
CPR, which is very fatiguing. She kept working on him until firefighters were able to get him in the
chest compression device. Officer Manning was awarded the UFA Life-Saving Award for saving his
life. CHPD officers do things like this every day.

Ms. Terry rep011ed that the 2026 Citizens Academy would begin the following week, and residents
wishing to sign up should contact the records department. Classes are held on Wednesdays from 6:00
p.m. to 9:00 p.m. through April 29. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Ms.
Terry stated that children under the age of 18 must be accompanied by an adult.

The CHPD safety message was on the most common fo1ms of domestic violence. The City's victim
advocate is Yesenia Escobar, and there are other resow-ces available for those who need assistance.
Chief Russo remarked that the criminal justice system can be overwhelming for victims of violent
crime. Ms. Escobar walks victims through the process, assists them with getting to court, and explains
their options and available resources.

7.0     ACTION ITEMS

        7.1     Consideration of Ordinance 462 Adopting an Amended Budget for 1 July 2025
                through 30 June 2026. (The Utah State Treasurer suggests that Utah cities amend
                their budgets at least quarterly to reflect any necessary changes since the budget was
                adopted. This ordinance will approve an amendment to the city's current {2025-
                2026/ budget).

Mayor Be1mion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 462, Adopting an Amended
Budget for 1 July 2025 through 30 June 2026. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland.
Vote on Motion: Council Member BiITell-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Cow1cil Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        7.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-12 Making Appointments to the Unified Fire
                Authority Board. (By this resolution, t/ze council will approve the appointments of
                ft1avor Gay Lynn Bennion, as the regular member, a11d Cm111cilme111be1· Suzanne
                Hyland, as the a/temate member, to represent the citv on the Unified Fire Authority
                Board).

Mayor Bennion reported that she serves on the UFA Board, and the alternate member is Council
Member Bin-ell. Council Member Hyland stated that the posted agenda had her name as the alternate
member, but it should have listed Council Member BiITell.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026      Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       21
MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE 2026-12 Making Appointments to the
Unified Fire Authority Board. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on
Motion: Council Member BitTell-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        7.3     Consideration of Resolution 2026-13 Approving and Ratifying the Appointments
                of Members to the Cottonwood Heights Citizens Budget Advisory
                Committee. (Bv this resolution, tlze council will approve and ratifv the
                appointments o[tlze members o(the city's citi.zell budget advisory committee).

Council Member Hyland stated that there was a list of requirements to participate in the C01mnittee
including having a willingness to act in an advisory capacity to review and comment on the Budget,
being able to attend regular meetings, possessing the ability to co11aborate with Committee members
and put putting aside personal to special interests for the bettennent of the City, and represent the
needs of the community as a whole. She and Mayor Bennion sit on the Budget Committee and will
be part of the meetings, and they are committed to ensuring that those requirements are adhered to.

In response to a question, Mr. Gerber rep01ted that all Citizens Budget Advisory Committee meetings
are public, and minutes and recordings will be posted as available.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE 2026-13 Approving and Ratifying the
Appointments of Members to the Cottonwood Heights Citizens Budget Advisory Committee. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Bin-ell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes;
Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Binell-Yes; Mayor
Bennion-Yes. T11e motion passed unanimously.

Mayor Bennion addressed the comment heard during the Citizen Comment Period and reported that
a staff vacancy had not been filled, and further cuts were being made due to budget constraints.

        7.4    - Consideration of Resolution 2026-14 Approving a Consulting Agreement for
                 Budgetary Matters. (This resolution will approve the city's e11trv into a consulting
                 agreement wlzereumler Kerri Nakamura a1td Associates will provide services in
                 cmmection with the city's FY 2026-27 budgetary process).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Council Member Hyland stated that the agreement will help the City navigate the difficult budget
process and leave no stone unturned.

Council Member Newell abstained from the vote due to his relationship with the contractor.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-14 Approving a
Consulting Agreement for Budgetary Matters. The motion was seconded by Council Member Binell.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bem1ion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

Cottonwood /-/eights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                         22
       7.5     Consideration of Resolution 2026-15 Approving an Appointment to the Health in
               the Heights Advisorv Committee. (This resolution will approve tlze manager's
               appointment of Danielle Lecourt to tlze city's Health ill the Heights advisorv
               committee).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-15 Approving an
Appointment to the Health in the Heights Advisory Committee. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes;;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.                                          :

8.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

       8.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of January 20, 2026, and February 3, 2026, along with the Mayor and
                City Council Retreat of Januarv 24, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Consent Calendar. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

9.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Me@h._er Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:58 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes/or February 17, 2026   Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      23
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of tlze
Cottonwood Heights City Co1111cil Work Session and Business Meetings held 011 Tuesday,
February 17, 2026.


TeYL FoYbe.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ ________ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for February 17, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       24
                        3a.

                     REPORT

Ridgecrest Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary Update

                   Principal Sarah Allen
Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D   Work Session M    Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No lg] Undetermined D
                            Denied D Approved lg]             D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:


Summary:

Ptincipal Sarah Allen will be presenting to the Mayor and Council with updates regarding Ridgecrest
Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary.

Let me know if you have any questions prior to the meeting.
Thank you.
          -3b.
       REPORT
Prevent Child Abuse Utah

     Deandra Brown
Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D   Work Session lijg..   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No ~   Undetermined D
                            Denied D Approved ~ Co tin ed D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:


Summary:

Attached is Proclamation 2020-04 recognizing April as Child Abuse Prevention Month. Deandra Brown from
Prevent Child Abuse Utah will be presenting to the Mayor and Council

Let me know if you have any questions prior to the meeting.

Thank you.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   PROCLAMATION 2020-04

                       A PROCLAMATION DESIGNATING EACH APRIL
                           AS CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH

        WHEREAS, children are the future of the world, and investing in their general welfare,
safety and livelihood is of utmost importance; and

        WHEREAS, all children deserve to grow up in a safe and nurturing environment to assure
that they are able to reach their full potential; and

        WHEREAS, the protection of children and strengthening of families is of concern to, and
the responsibility of, all citizens because the wellness of children affects all lives, now and in the
future; and

        WHEREAS, child abuse is a serious problem throughout the world, crossing all racial,
religious, socio-economic and geographic boundaries, with each instance of child abuse impacting
not only that family but also the entire community; and

       WHEREAS, it is desirable for all of the residents of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") to become more aware of child abuse and its prevention, and for the City to actively
encourage its residents to raise their children in a safe and nurturing environment; and

        WHEREAS, the City's city council therefore deems it appropriate to designate each April
as "Child Abuse Prevention Month" in the City in order to raise the awareness of the City's
residents to the potential for child abuse and to encourage all to be attentive to the problems of
famil ies around them and to commit to do everything they can to help prevent child abuse;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED by the Cottonwood Heights city council
that the City hereby designates each April as Child Abuse Prevention Month in the City, and calls
upon all citizens to renew their commitment to be educated on the impact of child abuse and to
join together in working for its prevention within the City and throughout the world.

        DATED this 7th day of April 2020.


ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



By:_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _                       By
                                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --
   Paula Melgar, Recorder                           Mich ael J. Peterson, Mayor
             3c.

          REPORT
CHPRD Master Plan Presentation

         Lyse Durrant
Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D   Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No [SI Undetermined D
                            Denied D Appro
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:


Summary:


Lyse Durrant will be presenting the CHPRD Master Plan to the Mayor and Council.

Let me know if you have any questions piior to the meeting.

Thank you.
                     4a.

              STAFF REPORT
Communications Strategy/Newsletter Discussion
                Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested :         Business Meeting □   Work Session @.   Ot her D

Public Hearing Needed?      Yes □ No ~ Undetermined □
                            Denied □ Approved IXl
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:


Summary:


City Manager Jared Gerber wi11 lead a discussion with the Mayor and Council regarding communications
strategy and the City newsletter.

Let me know if you have any questions prior to the meeting.

Thank. you.
         4b.

  STAFF REPORT
America 250 Discussion
   Barbara Higgins
Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D   Work Session@     Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes □ No ~   Undetermined D
                            Denied D Approved ~ Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:


Summary:

Administrative Services Director Barbara Higgins will lead a discussion and brainstonning session on the
America 250 initiative.


Let me know if you have any questions prior to the meeting.

Thank you.
        CM-,.
         ~~o~:vood
           brtu·u,1 thf
            ( ",r_)·
                        Heights
                             r,111)om




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                       4.0
          Action Items
         Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                      Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                      Wednesday, February 25, 2026 12:51 PM
To:                        Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                   [EXT:]Legislation for March 3rd City Council Business Meeting
Attachments:               WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026- 16 Approving Independent Contractor Agreement with Perkins
                           Engineering.pdf; WST- Cottonwood Heights-Perkins Contract (3000 E BCC Trail Crosswalk)_signed.pdf; WST-
                           Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-17 Approving America250 License Agreement with State of Utah.pdf; WST-
                           Cottonwood Heights-America250 Utah Community Licensing Agreement (2.25.26).pdf



Greetings-

The following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the city council's March 3rd business
meeting are attached for your review and comment:

      1. Resolution 2026-16. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an
         independent contractor agreement where under Perkins Engineering, Inc. will provide engineering
         and related services in connection with the city's planned construction or reconstruction of an
         East/West crossing on the North side of the 3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway signalized
         intersection, to coincide with the existing Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail under City's project no.
         006.26 for a not-to-exceed price of $47,074.99. A copy of the proposed agreement also is
         attached, which includes a copy of the provider's proposal attached as an exhibit to t he
         agreement.

      2. Resolution 2026-17. This resolution w ill approve the city's entry into an agreement with the Utah
         Department of Cultural and Community Engagement to coordinate the city's use of the
         "America250" name, logo and brand identity in connection with our nation's upcoming 250th
         anniversary. A copy of the proposed agreement also is attached .

Please contact me as soon as possible if you have any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
t el+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged . If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegat.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                                1
                       C2t0-,,.,. ,,
                        l@.;~o:
                          C11y Im
                                  ~voodr,u,,n111
                                 wrm 1hr
                                          Heights




                                 4.1
                      Resolution 2026-16
 By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
   an independent contractor agreement whereunder Perkins
 Engineering, Inc. will provide engineering and related services
      in connection with the city's planned construction or
reconstruction of an East/West crossing on the North side of the
 3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway signalized intersection, to
coincide with the existing Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail under
                    City's project no. 006.26.
      '        .       \            '                            •


 Staff Report Memo
                   J       -·   •       .,   •   '.   •   -




 o:       Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                     From: Ben Nelsen, P.E., - Assistant City Engineer
          Cottonwood Heights City Council


Date : 3 March 2026




Meeting Requested:                      Business Meeting ~               Work Session O     Other □
                                                                                                      - - - - - -- - -
Public Hearing Needed?                  Yes □ No ~ Undetermined □

                                        Denied □              Approved l2SI Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                                        CM Signature:-~ ( _======- -


History Summary:
Cottonwood Heights has approximately $294,000 in RDA funds for the improvement of public infrastructure along 3000
E and facilities within the RDA. These funds are only to be used for improvements with the RDA and cannot be used for
any other improvements in the city. Funds from this account have previously been used to make improvements to the
Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail (from 3000 E west through the RDA) . A betterment that is of interest to the city is
improving crosswalk safety where Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail crosses 3000 E. The city looks to add safety
improvements including enhanced lighting at the intersection and crosswalk, bulb outs, and physical and visual
separation of the crosswalk to enhance visibility of the crosswalk and pedestrians.
Staff has engaged Perkins Engineering to come up with an innovative design to slow traffic and enhance pedestrian
safety in meeting the goals of this project. Perkins is anticipated to complete all investigation and design of the
crosswalk for $47,075. These costs w ill be paid from the allotted funds specific to the RDA.
Staff Recommendations: Approve the agreement w ith Perkins engineering and authorize the mayor to sign the
agreement.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION No. 2026-16

                A RESOLUTION APPROVlNG AN AGREEMENT WITH PERKINS
                    ENGINEERING, INC. FOR ENGINEERING SERVICES

       WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 3 March 2026 to consider, among other things, approving an
independent contractor agreement (the "Agreement") with Perkins Engineering, Inc. ("Provider")
whereunder Provider would provide engineering and related services in connection with City's
planned constmction or reconstruction ofan East/West crossing on the North side of the 3000 East
and Cottonwood Parkway signalized intersection, to coincide with the existing Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail under City's project no. 006.26, as described in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fonn of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration., the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citiz;ens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and tihat the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
alld d,irected to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-16, shalt! take effect inunediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 3 March 2026.


ATTEST:                                         COTTON)VOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                                 B y : - - - -- -- - - - - - - - --
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                                VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                      Yea_Nay _
                                                Suzanne Hyland                   Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                  Yea_Nay _
                                                Ellen Birrell                    Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 3rd day of March 2026.

        RECORDED this _ day of March 2026.
                      Independent Contractor Agreen1ent
        THIS INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made
effective 3 March 2026 by COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is
2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84 12 1 ("City"), and by PERKINS
ENGINEERING, INC. a Utah corporation whose address is 2526 Starling Drive, Salt Lake
City, UT 84121 ("Contractor"). In this Agreement, City and Contractor are each a "party" and
collectively are the "parties."



        A.      City desires to obtain from a qualified, licensed engineering or engineering finn
expert engineering and related services concerning the proposed constmction or reconstruction
of sidewalk bulb outs and colored MMA cross walk markings, crossing East/West on the North
side of 3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway signalized intersection, to coincide with the existing
Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail under City's project no. 006.26 (the "Project"), and to perfonn
related services, all in accordance with applicable standards and Contractor's attached Proposal.

       B.      Contractor regularly provides such services and on or about 15 January 2026
submitted a proposal to City in response to a request for proposals r(the "RFP") previously issued
by City conceming ~he services desired by City. A copy of Contractor's proposal (the
"Proposal") is attached hereto as Exhibit "A."

        C.      After reviewing the Proposal City has detennined to retain Contractor to provide
the subject services.

        D.     By this Agreement, City desires to retain Contractor, and Contractor desires to be
retained by City, to perform the subject services on the tenns and conditions specified herein.

        E.     City and Contractor intend to identify herein the services to be perfonned for City
by Contractor, the basis of compensation for such services, and to otherwise set forth their entire
agreement concerning the subject services. Consequently, this Agreement shall supercede any
and all prior or contemporaneous negotiations and/or agreements, oral and/or written, between
the parties concerning the services to be provided under this Agreement.

                                      AGREEMENT:

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
w1dertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        Section I.      Scope of Services. Contractor shall provide the services ( collectively, the
"Services'') to City that are described in the RFP, the Proposal, and below, as well as all ancillary
and associated services as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to complement and
complete the Services, all as contemplated by all applicable legal requirements and best
practices. Subject to the foregoing, the Services shall include the following:

               (a)    Phases. The Services shall be divided into the phases, steps and work
described in the Proposal.
               (b)      Public Meetings. Contractor shall attend such public meetings concerning
the Services as City reasonably may direct. City shall schedule and adve1iise all public meetings
or hearings. City may request Contractor to make a presentation concerning the Services and the
Project at one or more public meetings to receive public input and direction from City. All
reasonable and final adjustments to the resulting Project requested by City will be made by
Contractor prior to its final adoption/approval by City.

               (c)     Schedule. It is anticipated that the Project will be completed and the
Services will be fully rendered within approximately four months after the effective date of this
Agreement, which deadline is anticipated to be approximately 30 June 2026. Contractor shall
comply with such performance schedule for the component Services as City reasonably may
direct upon reasonable prior notice to Conh·actor.

              (d)      Deliverables. Contractor shall provide all deliverables identified in the
Proposal, as well as such other documentation and deliverables as City reasonably may request.

                (e)    Other Services. Contractor shall perform all other services and work as
specified in the Proposal, or as may be mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.

If Contractor believes that any of the aforementioned Services merit payment of any additional
fee beyond the Fee (defined below), then Contractor shall so inform City in advance before
undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and
the not-to-exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Contractor to proceed with any such
additional services, City shall so inform Contractor in ,vriting. Contractor may not perfonn any
additional services, or seek compensation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

        Section 2.      Performance of Services. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement, Contractor shall furnish all supervision, personnel, labor, materials, supplies and
shall obtain all licenses and permits required for performance of the Services. The Services shall
be performed at Contractor's offices and other muh1ally-agreeable places.

       Section 3.     Compensation; Invoices; Remittance. City shall compensate Contractor
for the Services satisfactorily performed at the rates specified in the Proposal, up to the
maximum amount of $47,074.99 (the "Fee") plus any additional amount due under the last
paragraph of Section I, above.

               (a)    Invoices. Contractor shall invoice City for the Services perfonned during
each calendar month at the end of that month or as soon as practical thereafter. All invoices
submitted to City shall contain references to this Agreement. Invoices shall detail the Services
perfonned and shall contain copies of all supporting documents or proof of any expenditures 011
behalf of City and otherwise shall be in sync with the stage of completion of the Services
outlined in the Proposal. Invoices for any approved additional services also shall specify the
person(s) performing such services, the hours worked, the applicable hourly rate(s),

                (b)      Questioned Charges. Any questions or objections by City concerning
Contractor's charges under an invoice for the any services shall be submitted within 30 days
after City's receipt of the subject invoice.


                                               -2-
                (c)     Remillances. Subject to subsection 3(b). all invoiced amounts due for
Services performed shall be paid by City within 30 days after City's receipt of the subject
invoice. If payment is not remitted or reasonably questioned to Contractor when due, Contractor
shall be entitled to recover interest thereon at the rate of I 0% per amrnm from and after the date
the remittance is due and payable.

        Section 4.     Change in Level of Services. City shall be freely entitled to modify
(increase or decrease) the level of the Services hereunder by providing at least 15 days' prior
written notice to Contractor of such change, provided that (a) any increase in the level of the
Services shall be subject to Contractor's reasonable approval, and (b) Contractor's compensation
shall be reasonably modified in connection with any such change.

        Section 5.     Suspension of Services. City shall have the absolute right to tenninate the
Services at any time without cost or liability to Contractor as provided in this Agreement. City
also may by written notice direct Contractor to temporarily suspend perfonnance of any or all of
the Services for a specified period of time. If such suspension is not occasioned by the fault or
negligence of Contractor, this Agreement may be modified to compensate Contractor for extra
costs reasonably incurred as a result of said suspension, provided that any claim for adjustment is
supported by appropriate cost documentation and asserted within 20 calendar days after the date
that City issues an order for resumption ofthe Services. Upon its receipt of any such suspension
notice, Contractor immediately shall (a) discontinue the Services; (b) place no further orders or
subcontracts in connection with the Services; (c) suspend all outstanding orders and subcontracts
in connection with the Services; (d) protect and maintain the existing work and work-product in
connection with the Services; and ( e) otherwise mitigate City' s costs and liabilities for the
suspended areas of the Services.

       Section 6.     Termination fo1· Convenience. City may terminate this Agreement, or
any part hereof, at any time with or without cause prior to its completion by sending to
Contractor written notice of such termination. Upon any such termination, City shall pay to
Contractor the full amount due for all Services satisfactorily performed by Contractor as of the
date of tennination, excluding damages or anticipated profits on work not yet completed or
performed.

        Section 7.      Ownership of Designs and Drawings. All documents (whether printed or
stored on paper or as electronic, magnetic, or digital infonnation) produced or collected by
Contractor in its perfonnance of the Services (including, without limitation, original drawings,
estimates, specifications, field notes and data) (collectively, the "Documents") are and shall
remain the exclusive property of City. Conditioned only on City's payment to Contractor of the
amounts due hereunder, at the conclusion of the Services or any earlier termination thereof
Contractor shall deliver to City all Documents, whether or not complete. Contractor may, at its
expense, reproduce for its own records the Docmnents so supplied to City. Contractor may not
disclose, sell, use, publish or display any Documents or other information collected or produced
in connection with its performance of this Agreement without City's prior written consent.

        Section 8.    Nondisclosure; Conflict of Interest. Contractor shall not diV11lge to third
parties without City's prior written consent any infonnation obtained from or through City in
connection with the performance of this Agreement. Unless waived by City, Contractor shall
require its employees and subcontractors of any tier to adhere to the same covenant of
nondisclosure. Contractor shall safeguard the confidentiality of any information obtained from or
                                                -3-
through City in connection with the perfom1ance of this Agreement to the same extent as
Contractor safeguards the confidentiality of its own proprietary or confidential information.
Contractor and its subcontractors shall not act as a Contractor in any matters adverse to City.

       Section 9.      Compliance with Laws. Contractor shall at all times comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances, including,
without limitation, those governing wages, hours, desegregation, employment discrimination,
workers' compensation, employer's liability and safety. Contractor also shall comply with all
applicable equal opportunity laws and regulations.

        Section 10.    Patent and Copvright If Contractor's employees, officers, agents,
subcontractors of any tier, or anyone of a like nature in the perfonnance of the Services or as a
result of performing the Services develop any trade secret, prepare any copyrighted material,
make any improvement, originate any invention, or develop any process or the like (collectively,
an "Innovation"), {a) such Innovation shall be the property of Contractor, but {b) Contractor shall
grant or cause to be used for the benefit of City {or for City's own internal use) the Innovation
for so long as City reasonably desires.

        Section 11.  Independent Contractor Status. Contractor shall pe1form the Services as
an independent contractor, and all persons employed by Contractor in connection herewith shall
be employees or independent contractors of Contractor and not employees of Agency in any
respect.

              (a)    Control. Contractor shall have complete control and discretion over all
personnel providing Services hereunder.

             (b)   Scilarv and Wages. Agency shall not have any obligation or liability for
the payment of any salaries, wages or other compensation to personnel providing Services
heretmder.

                (c)    No Emplovment Benefits. All perso1mel providing Services are and shall
be and remain Contractor's employees, and shall have no right to any Agency pension, civil
service, or any other Agency benefits pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.

        Section 12.     Assignment Contractor shall not assign this Agreement, or any part
thereof, ·without City's prior written consent. Any attempted assigtm1ent in violation of this
section shall be void from its inception.

       Section l 3.    Subcontracts. Except for those subcontractors which are specified in the
Proposal, Contractor shall not award any work to any subcontractor without City's prior written
approval, which approval will not be given until {a) Contractor submits to City a written
statement (containing such information as City may require) concerning the proposed award to
the subcontractor, and (b) City has reasonably approved such proposed subcontract.

Contractor shall be as fully responsible to City for the acts and omissions of Contractor's
subcontractors, and of persons either directly or indirectly employed by such subcontractors, in
the same manner as Contractor is liable for the acts and omissions of its own employees.
Contractor shall cause appropriate provisions to be inserted in all subcontracts to bind
subcontractors to Contractor by the tenns and conditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable
                                                -4-
to the work of subcontractors, and to give Contractor the same power to tenninate any
subcontract as City may exercise over Contractor under this Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement, and no course of dealing, shall create any contractual relationship between City and
any of Contractor's subcontractors.

        Section 14.    Accounting and Auditing. Contractor shall keep accurate and complete
records in support of all remuneration paid hereunder. City, or its audit representative, shall have
the right at any reasonable time(s) to examine, audit, and reproduce all records pertaining to
costs, including but not Iimited to payrolls, employees' time sheets, invoices, and all other
evidence of expenditures for the Services. Such records shall be available for one year after
completion of the Services.

       Section 15.    Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be constmed as
granting to Contractor the exclusive right to perfonn any or all of the Services from time to time
required by City.

       Section 16.     Indemnification.

               (a)     Bv Contractor. Contractor shall indenmify and hold harmless City and
City's elected and appointed officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively,
"City Parties") from and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, costs
(including attorney fees), actions or proceedings (collectively, "Losses"), arising from or related
to the breach by Contractor of its obligations under this Agreement or Contractor's intentional or
negligent acts or omissions hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or
arise from, Contractor's good faith reliance upon the instmction, direction, negligence or
misconduct of any of the City Parties.

               (b)     Bv Citv. City shall indemnify and hold hannless Contractor, its affiliates
and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and subcontractors (collectively,
"Contractor Parties") from any and all of any of Contractor Parties' Losses arising from or
related to the breach by City of its obligations under this Agreement or the negligent acts or
omissions of City hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or arise from
City's good faith reliance upon the instruction, direction, negligence or misconduct of any of the
Contractor Parties.

        Section l 7.  Insurance. Without limiting any obligations of Contractor, Contractor
shall prior to commencing work secure and thereafter continuously throughout the tenn of this
Agreement carry insurance in accordance with City's standard insurance requirements set forth
on attached Exhibit "B" and shall furnish proof thereof satisfactory to City promptly when
requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the following insurance requirements set
forth on attached Exhibit "B" are modified as follows : (a) Professional Liability coverage under
Section A(l) is modified to $1 Million for each claim and $3 Million aggregate; and (b) the
requirement for Excess Liability coverage under Section A(5) is omitted.

       Section 18.    Professional Responsibilitv. Contractor shall perfonn the Se1vices using
equal or higher standards of care, skill and diligence as normally provided by a professional in
the perfonnance of services similar to those contemplated hereunder. Without limiting any other
remedies available to City, if Contractor fails to comply with such professional standards,


                                                 -5-
Contractor shalJ, upon notice from City, promptly re-perfonn the sub-standard work at
Contractor's sole cost.

        Section 19.    Examination of Work. All Services shall be subject to examination by
City at any reasonable time(s). City shall have the right to reject any unsatisfactory work. Neither
examination of the Services, lack of the same, acceptance of the Services by City nor payment
therefor shall relieve Contractor from its obligations under this Agreement regarding the quality
and accuracy of the Services.

        Section 20.   Progress. Contractor shall submit periodic written progress reports as
reasonably requested by City. City or its agents or representatives may visit Contractor's offices
at any reasonable time(s) to detenuine the status of the Services.

        Section 21.    Conflict Resolution. Except as otheIWise provided herein, in the event of
a dispute between the parties regarding the Services which is not disposed of by agreement, the
resolution of the dispute shall be decided by City, which shall provide written notice of its
decision to Contractor. Such decision by City shall be final unless Contractor, within 30 calendar
days after such notice of City's decision, provides to City a written notice of protest, stating
clearly and in detail the basis thereof. Contractor shall continue its performance of this
Agreement during such resolution. If the parties do not agree, then the parties shall resolve the
dispute pursuant to section 22 below.

        Section 22.    Claims and Disputes. Claims, disputes and other issues between the
patties arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be decided by lit,igation in the Third
Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the
provisions hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Contractor shall continue to perform the
Services during any such litigation and City shall continue to make payments to Contractor in
accordance with the tenns of this Agreement.

        Section 23.    Notice. Any notice required or pennitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such
notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the
parties at their addresses specified above or such substitute or additional addresses as a party
previously may have provided to the other parties through written notice.

       Section 24.    Citv's Cooperation. City will provide the following assistance to
Contractor in connection with the Services:

               (a)     Representative. Designate a representative of City to act as Contractor's
point of contact with respect to the Services.

               (b)    Information. Provide to Contractor access to all non-confidential
infonnation pe11aining to the Services that is in City's possession or is reasonably available to
City. Contractor shall not be responsible for errors or omissions in any City-provided
infonnation, nor for delays in completing the Services attributable to City's delay in providing
required infonnation.

                ( c)   StaffAssistance. Such support of City' s staff as City determines, in its sole
                                                 -6-
discretion, to make available to Contractor.

        Section 25.    Conflicts. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
Agreement, the attached exhibits, the RFP, the Proposal or applicable legal requirements,
Contractor shall (a) provide the better quality or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with
the more beneficial requirements to City, either or both in accordance with City's reasonable
interpretation.

      Section 26.      Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this
Agreement:

                (a)    Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and
shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
or parts hereof.

               (b)    Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter fonns, and the
singular fonn of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

               (c)    Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

               ( d)   Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes aU prior agreements and
understandings pertaining thereto.

               (e)     Time. Time is the essence hereof.

               (f)     Su111ival. All agreements, covenants, representations and wananties
contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force
and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.

               (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of
any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party.
No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other
covenant, agreement, tenn and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

                (h)    Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
shall not preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

               (i)     Severabihtv. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision
hereof is held to be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of
                                                 -7-
this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If
such condition, covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth,
such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth pennitted by law.

               (i)    Litigation. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the
prevailing party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be paid
by the non-prevailing party.

              (k)     Exhibits. All exhibits annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a pat1
of this Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either
in this Agreement itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this
Agreement and all such exhibits and writings.

               (l)    Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed and delivered
electronically by facsimile, pdf transmission or similar, with the same legal effect as manual
execution and physical delivery.

                (m)     Authori=ations. Each person signing this Agreement represents and
warrants that (s)he is authorized to sign this Agreement for the party indicated.

       iDATED effective the date first-above written.

                                                CONTRACTOR:

                                                 PERKINS ENGINEERING, INC.,
                                                a Utah corporation




                                                 Name and Title: Todd Perkins, President


                                                 CITY:

ATTEST:                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


By: - -- - - -- - - -                            By:
                                                       ---------------
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor




                                               -8-
         Exhibit "A" to
Independent Contractor Agreement

(Attach Contractor's 15 January 2026 Proposal)




                     -9-
                                                                     Perkins Engineering, Inc.



~
     P·f!R1KINS
          NG/NEERING
                                                                     Salt Lake City, UT 84121

                                                                              (801) 815-1491
                                                                             todd@tperk.com
                                                                              www.tperk.com



Perkins Engineering Proposal January 15, 2026




    3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway (6580 S) Sidewalk bulb out and crosswalk



                                  Table Of Contents


Scope of Work
Tasks and Detail Hours
Cost proposal
Subconsultants - Merdian, Scope and cost proposal for survey
Concept Drawing from Cottonwood Heiglhts
Project Schedule- Deliver by End of April 2026



Scope Of Work
3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway (6580 S) Sidewalk bulb out and crosswalk
updates.


PROJECT EXTENTS
Sidewalk bulb outs and colored MMA cross walk markings, crossing East/West on the
north side of the 3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway signalized intersection. Concrete
High Visibility Cross walk to coincide with existing Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail.


SCOPE OF WORK .
     •   Design Sidewalk bulb-outs with colored stamped concrete on north side of
         intersection supporting East/West crossing maneuver. Analyze bu lb-outs for
         compatibility with snowplows.
     •   Design cross walk with concrete High visibility cross walk
     •   Design Signing. Advance warning trail crossing signs per MUTCD
     •   Design Updated ADA ramps
     •   Design arterial streetlights as shown on the concept drawing.
                                                                     Perkins Engineering, Inc.



~
        PEfllNS
         NG/NEERING
                                                                     Salt Lake City, UT 84121

                                                                              (801) 815-1491
                                                                             todd@tperk.com
                                                                              www.tperk.com



           o   We can recommend lighting or city will provide street light specs. In
               addition, we recommend placing UDOT or County standard lighting on top
               of all 4 existing traffic signal poles. We can coordinate that with the
               County.
           o Coordination with power company for lighting power source. May be able
               to use power from the existing traffic signal.
    •   Request Level D utility as builts from utility companies. No SUE work or utility
        plans will be prepared. Assume light pole foundations can be shifted as needed
        during construction to avoid utilities.
    •   Design to stay within existing R/W or identify areas where additional R/W would
        be needed.
           o R/W deeds are not included. Meridian will map the existing ROW.
    •   Produce bidding schedule, cost estimate, specifications (APWA), and plan set.
           o Plans will follow Cottonwood Heights templates and would include
                   • Survey control sheet
                   • Horizontal control sheet
                   • Roadway sheets
                   • Roadway/grading details
                         •   Grading details to assure that drainage will still work with
                             new sidewalk bulb-outs.
                  •   Striping & Signing sheets/detail
                  •   Lighting sheets
                  •   No profile or modeling would be part of the project.
                  •   No drainage design or plan sheets would be part of the project. We
                      will design the curb & gutter to drain to existing inlets.
                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~
                               PERKINS ENGINEERING - HOURS DETAIL
3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway (6580 S) Sidewalk bulb out and crosswalk
Cottonwood Heights City
CH PM: Ben Nelsen
Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineering

                           TASK                                      Todd               Brian                    Marcy
                        DESCRIPTION                                 Perkins            Bonell                   Perkins
                                                                    Project            Project       Design    Accounting                   Total
                                                                    Manager           Engineer      Engineer     Admin                      Hours

2R1 30% Roadway, Striping & Signing Design, and Lighting               11,              28            26           0                0        65
                                                                                  I
                                                                                  I                                                     I
Initial Bulb Out Sidewalk and ADA Ramp Design                                           10             6
Initial Signing & Striping Design                                                       4              2
 lntial Lighting Design and Coordination with Power Company &
County Signal Maintenance. Lighting calcs in AGl32. Request            10                              4
utility maps.
Prepare title sheet, horizontal control sheet, and 30% roadway,
                                                                                        12            12
striping, signing, lighting plans
Prepare initial cost estimate                                          1                 2             2
                                                                                                                       -·   ~


2V1 30% Review Me·eting                                         I      4          ;      4   .. L      0           0                0        8
                                                                                                                                        '
Prepare for and conduct the in-person 30% review meeting               2                 2
Prepare meeting materials, agenda, meeting notes, com~ent                                2
                                                                       2
form
4R1 90% PS&E - Roadway, Striping, Signing, & Lighting                        •r         27            24           0
                                                                                                                        - ......
                                                                                                                               ,

                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                             61
                                                                       10
Plans, Specs, and Estimate                                                   .I                                                         I


Complete roadway plans, grading plans, ADA ramp plans, and                              15            12
details
Complete striping & signing plans and details                                            4             2
Complete lighting plans and details                                    8                               4
Prepare quantities, estimate, bid schedule, specs, and M&P             2                 8             6
                                                                       4      -   ~
                                                                                         4             0           0               0         8
4V1 PS&E 90% Review Meeting                                                  - .



                                                                    Page 1 of 2                                                             1/15/2026
                               PERKINS ENGINEERING - HOURS DETAIL
3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway (6580 S) Sidewalk bulb out and crosswalk
                                                                                                                    ~!liKINS
                                                                                                                         N G/ ~; ( ( R l ."J G


Cottonwood Heights City
CH PM: Ben Nelsen
Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineering

                            TASK                                Todd          Brian                      Marcy
                        DESCRIPTION                            Perkins       Bonell                     Perkins
                                                              Project        Project         Design    Accounting                     Total
                                                              Manager       Engineer        Engineer     Admin                        Hours
Prepare the agenda, meeting materials, and the CRF               2             2
Prepare for and conduct the in-person PS&E meeting               2             2
                                                                                                                            -- • 1·
5Y1 Incorporate PS&E Review Comments                             2             7               7       I   0         0                  16
Revise plans                                                     1             5               5
Revise estimate, bid schedule, specs, and M&P                    1             2               2
121 Project Management                                           5             2   .::J L      0           3         0                  10
Manage the project (informal meetings, emails, phone calls,
                                                                 3             2
manage internal staff, and subconsultant )
Accounting & Invoicing                                           2                                         3
                                                Total Hours      36           72              57           3         0                 168




                                                              Page 2 of 2                                                             1/15/2026
                                         PERKINS ENGINEERING - STAFFING, HOURS, AND COST PROPOSAL
       3000 East and Cottonwood Parkway (6580 S) Sidewalk bulb out and crosswalk                                                          ~~~~~~~.
       Cottonwood Heights City
       CH PM: Ben Nelsen
       Prime Consultant: Perkins Engineering~
                                            ~

                              TASK                                Todd       Brian               Marcy
                           DESCRIPTION                           Perkins    Bonell              Perkins
                                                                 Project    Project    Design  Accounting
                                                                 Manager   Engineer   Engineer   Admin                                  Total      Labor
                                                         RATE*   $101.28    $91.00     $43.00    $52.50                                 Hours      Cost
       2R1 30% Roadway, Striping & Signing Design, and             11        28         26                                               65       $4,780.08
       Lighting
       2V1 30% Review Meeting                                      4          4                                                          8        $769.12
       4R1 90% PS&E - Roadway, Striping, Signing, & Lighting                                                                             61       $4,501.80
                                                                   10        27         24
       Plans, Specs, and Estimate
       4V1 PS&E 90% Review Meeting                                 4          4                                                          8        $769.12

       5Y1 Incorporate PS&E Review Comments                         2         7          7                                               16       $1,140.56

       121 Project Management                                       5         2                    3                                     10       $845.90
                                                Total Hours        36        72         57         3        0     0          0           168
                                                                                                                            Total Direct Labor    $12,806.58
                                                                                                                         Overhead     156.47%     $20,038.46
                                                                                                                Total Direct Labor + Overhead     $32,845.04
                                                                                                                         Fixed Fee     11.0%       $3,612.95
                                                                                                                Miles       100        $0.670          $67.00
                                                                                                                              Perkins Subtotal    $36,524.99
                                                                                                                                 Subconsultanfa
                                                                                                                  Meridian Engineering (Survey)   $10,550.00
                                                                                                                                          Total   $47,074.99




1/1 5/2026
                                                                          !t12~ W~sl 11010 Solllh, SJJI!~ 102
, , MERIDIAN                                                                       Soult, Jordan UT IJ,IOCJ5
    ENGINEERING , I N C.
                                                                          r 601 56913 15 • F 801 5691319
                                                                                      w~.vw MEiamer1cf1 corTI




   December 23, 2024



   Perkins Engineering
   2526 Starling Drive
   Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121

   Attention:   Todd Perkins, PE

   Re:          Scope and Fee to provide Surveying and Mapping Services

   Subject:     Cottonwood He1ights- 3000 East Crosswalk

   Todd,

   Pursuant to your request that Meridian Engineering, Inc. (Meridian) provide surveying and
   mapping services on the above-mentioned project, we respectfully offer the attached
   scope of work services with associated fees.

   Thank you for this opportunity and if you have any questions, or need any other
   assistance, don't hesitate to contact me.




  ~~
   Michael Nadeau, PLS/CFedS
   Meridian Engineering, Inc.
SCOPE OF WORK
Task #1 - Control for Base Mapping, Construction and Right of Way

Primary Control: The primary control network will be established outside of the project
   areas and will be based on RTK VRS observations for all primary control values. This
   will allow for accurate longitude and latitude determination. State plane coordinates
   will be calculated from these values. Project coordinates will be used for actual
   topographic surveys.
Secondary Control: Meridian will set multiple copper rivets in existing concrete or #5 x
   24-inch rebar with "control point" caps to aid in the survey base mapping and for the
   use by the Contractor after design. These control points will be set at each location
   and differential level loops will tbe run through them for accurate elevations from the
   project benchmark retrieved during the primary control adjustment.
Controlling Monuments: Meridian will survey controlling monuments. These
   monuments may 1include Section Corners, Quarter Corners, and Center Quarter
   Corners throughout the proposed alignments necessary to deter.mine the existing
   property matrix for right of way takes or parcel agreements within the project limits.
   Meridian will survey secondary monuments. These monuments may 1include street
   monuments, subdivision monuments, right of way markers and property corners on
   adjoining lands throughout the project area.

   Note: Controll1ing monuments for Sections 23 of Township 2 South, Range 1 East, Salt
   Lake Base and Meridian may be surveyed for this project.
   Note: Controlling monuments along 3000 East may be surveyed for this project.
   Note: A Control Sheet will be provided for use by the design team for alignment
   purposes, as well as the contractor during construction.

Task #2 - Base Mapping Survey (See Last Page for Limits):

   a. Meridian's senior pilot will fly the project site to acquire orthorectified photos along
   with a point cloud of the project site for extraction of the following information.
   b. Survey will include the following items inside the project limits:
       • Curb, gutter and sidewalks, driveways and misc. concrete pads.
       • Edge of pavements, visible pavement crowns, signage, structural and
          landscape walls, fences and barriers.
       • Grade changes, breaks, toe and top of slopes, open ditches, drainage areas
          and other grade transitions.
       • Striping on cross section intervals and at the beginning or ending locations of
          stripe types.
       • Significant trees (6" diameter and larger). Outline clusters of smaller trees and
          shrubs.




                                                                       Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 2
      •   Visible surface utilities: sewer manholes, sewer clean-outs, storm drain
          manholes along with the invert elevations of the utilities inside the scoped
          project limits, water meters, water valves, fire hydrants, gas valves, gas meters
          (where pipe comes out of the ground), communications manholes, telephone
          boxes, transformers, utility poles (with cross arms, guys and line sag elevations
          when crossing the route with the current temperature and time added as a
          note), irrigation boxes, weirs, culverts, visible piping, sprinkler control boxes,
          signal boxes, other surface utilities, etc.
      •   Mailboxes, commercial signs (with overhangs) and building fronts.
      •   Found boundary evidence to aid in developing the existing right-of-way (Exrow)
          such as curb or sidewalk rivets, property monuments, right of way markers, etc.

Task #3- Develop the Existing R/W:

   a. Conduct ownership deed and subdivision plat research within the Salt Lake County
      Recorder's Office. Conduct a complete title abstract search to determine fee
      ownership of all parcels within the project limits. Retrieve copies of subdivision
      plats and road dedication plats.
   b. Conduct previously recorded boundary survey research with the Salt Lake County
      Surveyor's Office. This information will aid in placing subdivisions and private
      survey data within the right of way drawings.
   c. There are approximately four (4) parcels inside the limits of this scope of work.
   d. Meridian will provide a current MicroStation drawing of the above survey
      information for the site development of the subject parcel

   Note: Right of Way Design is not anticipated with this Scope of Work.

   Project Deliverables:
   • Control Sheet for use by the contractor during construction
   • Base Mapping in an Extopo format (dgn and dtm)
   • Existing RNV in an Exrow format (dgn)

   Note:
   • All boundary calculations and analysis will be done by a Utah Licensed Land
     Surveyor.
   • A record of survey will not be prepared with this scope of work.




                                                                      Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 3
PROJECT FEE
Meridian proposes to provide the above defined scope of work services for a lump sum price
shown below. The breakdown of our costs is as follows :
 TASK                                                                                  FEE SCHEDULE
    1) Primary Control, Monumentation, Control Sheet                                   $3,750.00
    2) Base Mapping Survey (Flight & Ground Survey)                                    $3,800.00
    3) Develop Existing R/W                                                            $3,000.00
                                                Grand Total                            $10,550.00


PROJECT SCHEDULE
Upon notice to proceed (NTP), Meridian will immediately schedule the field work for this project.
Meridian will deliver Task 2 within 3 weeks from NTP. Meridian will deliver the property matrix in
Task 3 within 1 week from delivery of the survey files.


PROJECT LOCATION AND TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY LIMITS:

                                                                               -                   -
                                                                                                   (JI         ' I' \ :                          1"I
                                                                                   .

                                                                          :,-.,;i' ro::,'!5.
                                                                                                       ~

                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                    \
                                                                                                                                                     r




                                                                                                      1{- .
                                                             •J
                                                                  •        •           "'ii~•··                  ..

                                                                                               ,_,. , , .. ··
                                                                          ..,,. ~ ( f -                    •
                                                                      •                                                     ~
                                                                                              , .. ,                        1-...__ .

                                                         f        l,,._•' .._~
                                                                             .. • :· ·- '--:,-
                                                                                       ....                             / (              '
                                                     (.                        "~A:                                             ,...::. ,
                                                                                       •                   ~
                                                    l

               ~
                                 •
                                        ~



                                     - -l
                                          ,
                                       -~Z!I
                                               (.
                                                    ..
                                                                               j
                                                                               .
                                                                                   '                            •


                                                                                                                        I       ~
                                                                                                                                i>._~
                                                                                                                                     J
                                                                                                                                      ,. ,
                                                                                                                                             .


                                                                                                                    ·1
                                                                                                                        ••          a::.,



                                                                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                                                 '       \




                                                                                                                    Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 4
 l>\,bl1',hed: July 811,, 1025        Cottonwood Heig hts
Source,: Utah Stntc AGnc
        Cottonwood I ktlOhl!i       22 77 E Beng11I Boulevard
            Snit lnke County     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                                         801 -944-7000




                                                                .. • iJ...'
                                                                              .;
                                                                   •     ' ··
                               Exhibit "B" to
                      Independent Contractor Agreement
                  lNSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTIES
            CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

       The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the perfonnance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the
contracting party's bid.

       A.      MINIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.

       The contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

                I.      Professional Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, including "tail coverage" for
at least one year after completion of atl services.

                2.     Automobile Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per accident
for bodily injury and property damage. "Any Auto" coverage is required.

               3.       Worker's Compensation: Worker's compensation limits as required by
applicable law for all employees and other persons.

               4.     Commercial General Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
occurrence for personal injury and property damage; $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Broad
Fonn Commercial General Liability is required (ISO 1993 or better). Personal injury, premises-
operations, products-completed operation, independent contractors and subcontractors fire legal
liability and, when appropriate, coverages for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU)
hazards.

               5.      Excess Liability. $5,000,000.00.

       B.      DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS.

       Any deductibles (5% limit), self-insured programs or retentions must be declared to and
approved by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"). At the option of the City, either: the
insurer may be required to reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as
respect to the City, its officers, officials and employees; or the contracting party may be required
to procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution
and defense expenses.

       C.      NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT.

       The contracting party shall agree to promptly disclose to the City all incidents or
occurrences of accident, injury, and/or prope1ty damage covered by the insurance policy or
policies.

        D.     OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS.

        The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

                I.     General Liability and Alllomobile LiabUity Coverages.

                      (a)    The City, its officers, officials, employees and volW1teers are to be
covered as additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities perfonned by or on
behalf of the contracting party; products and completed operations of the contracting party;
premises owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting party. The coverage shall contain
no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the City, its officers, officials,
employees or volunteers.

                       (b)     The contracting party's insurance coverage shall be a primary
insurance as respects to the City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall be
in excess of the contracting party's insurance and shall not contribute with it.

                       (c)     Any non-material failure to comply with reporting provisions of
the policies shall not affect coverage provided to the City, its officers, officials, employees or
volunteers.

                     (d)    The contracting party's insurance shall apply separately to each
insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the
insurer's liability.

                2.     Worker's Compensation and Employer's Liability Coverage.

                The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against the City, its
officers, officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work perfonued by the
contracting party for the City.

                3.     All Coverages.

               Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that
coverage shall not be cancelled before its expiration date except after thirty (30) days' prior
written notice (from the insurer) by first class mail, retum receipt requested, has been given to
the City.

        E.      ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS.

              Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a Bests ' rating of no less than A: VII,
unless approved by the Manager.

        F.      VERIFICATION OF COVERAGE.

                The contracting party shall fumish the City with certificates of insurance and with
                                                - I 1-
original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and
endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The certificates and endorsements are to be on forms provided before work commences.
The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies,
with all endorsements, at any time.

       G.      SUBCONTRACTORS.

                The contracting party shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policy
or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.




                                                -12-
Agreement for Engineering Service and
Technical Services
Final Audit Report                                                        2026-02-18

    Created:               2026-02-18

    By:                    Marcy Perkins (marcy@tperk.com)

    Status:                Signed

    Transaction ID:        CBJCHBCAABAA0HW834Bs0m8zcEdOBEOAPgWc-tMTqLPr




"Agreement for Engineering Service and Technical Services" His
tory
~ Document created by Marcy Perkins (marcy@tperk.com)
     2026-02- 18 - 4:49:34 PM GMT


1:1 Document emailed to Todd Perkins (todd@tperk.com) for signature
     2026-02-18 - 4:49:40 PM GMT


~ Email viewed by Todd Perkins (todd@tperk.com)
     2026-02-18 - 4:51 :05 PM GMT


&0 Document e-signed by Todd Perkins (todd@tperk.com)
     Signature Date: 2026-02-18 - 4:52:42 PM GMT• Time Source: server


0    Agreement completed.
     2026-02-18 - 4 :52:42 PM GMT




a    Adobe Acrobat Sign
                      '-,&.~     .u( ~            I


                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City b,tr,Ym the m n)r,111




                                    4.2
                     Resolution 2026-18
 By this resolution the council will recognize the "Cottonwood
  Heights Utah 250 Community Committee" and approve an
     agreement with the Utah Department of Cultural and
  Community Engagement to coordinate the city's use of the
"America250" name, logo and brand identity in connection with
           our nation's upcoming 250th anniversary.
                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-17

         A RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING AND APPROVING THE " COTTONWOOD
              HEIGHTS AMERICA250 COMMUNITY COMMITTEE" AND
            APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH THE UTAH DEPARTMENT
              OF CULTURAL AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT FOR USE
                 OF THE "AMERICA250" NAME, LOGO AND BRAND

        WHEREAS, in anticipation of our nation's impending 250th anniversary the state of Utah
(the "State") has created the America250 Utah Commission (the "Commission") to commemorate
and celebrate, reflect on our nation' s past, build community, and look forward to the future by
educating, engaging, and uniting Utahns and visitors to our state; and

        WHEREAS, the Commission is seeking partnerships with counties and cities to further its
mission and has proposed for the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") to form a local
committee called the "Cottonwood Heights Utah250 Community Committee" (the "Committee" )
to focus on important events, people, and places within the City to commemorate and celebrate
their role in America's 250th anniversary, thereby enhancing community building, tourism and
economic development opportunities; and

      WHEREAS, in furtherance of those purposes the State through its Department of Cultural
and Community Engagement also has submitted for the City's approval an agreement (the
"Agreement") to coordinate the City's use of the "America250" name, logo and brand identity in
connection with the 250th anniversa1y, as described in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the City's city council (the "Council") met in regular session on 3 March
2026 to consider, among other things, recognizing the Committee as its official "America250"
committee and approving the City's entry into the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City and its residents to so act;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that:

               (a)     The Committee is hereby recognized as the City's official "America250"
committee for, inter alia, partnering with the Commission, supporting signature programs with the
Commission, and engaging in local efforts to educate, engage and unify Utahns and visitors in the
City, Salt Lake County, and the State; and

               (b)    The attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City' s mayor and
recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-17, shall take effect immediately upon passage.
    PASSED AND APPROVED effective 3 March 2026.


ATTEST:                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:-- - - - - - - - - - -              B y : - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder               Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                       VOTING:

                                       Gay Lynn Bem1ion            Yea_Nay_
                                       Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                       Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                       Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                       Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

    DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 3rd day of March 2026.

     RECORDED this_ day of March 2026.




                                          2
                          AMERICA250 UTAH
                       LOGO USAGE AGREEMENT
This Trademark License Agreement ("Agreement" ) is entered into on 3 March 2026 (the "Effective
Date" ) by and between the UTAH DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AND COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT, a state governmental entity with a principal place of business at 3760 S.
Highland Dr., Millcreek, UT 84106 (the "Department"), and the city of COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality with a principal place of business at 2277 East Bengal Blvd.,
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("Entity"). The Parties execute the Agreement under relevant
provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act at Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code.

                                    BACKGROUND FACTS

In preparation for America's 250th a1miversary ("Semiquincentennial") in 2026, Utah's goal is to
create a brand identity for the Semiquincentennial that can bring communities together and
generate awareness for the anniversary. To that end, America250 Utah has chosen to utilize a
licensing agreement for its logo and name with the national foundation, America250™. The
Department's hope is that, in coordination with counties, cities, tribes, and organizations planning
events around the state, we can create a unifying America250 Utah brand that creates a sense of
cohesion leading up to 2026, bringing together celebrations and commemorations around the state
and country.

To pennit local governments to access the America250 Utah logo and use the America250 name
in individual brand identity, we will share this Agreement, which functions as a standalone
licensing agreement, with county, city, and tribal comrnittees that complete the steps detailed in
th:e next paragraph. These local governments will receive a commw1ity-specific logo to use. To
become a Utah250 Community member and receive a community-specific logo, Entity must do
each of tile following:

1) Pass a resolution in a public meeting of its governing commission or council;
2) Submit to the Department a list of Entity's Utah250 Community committee members;
3) Share with the Department the committee's plans and detail how Entity will utilize any funds
or branding received by America250 Utah in alliance with America250 Utah's mission, vision,
and pillars; and
4) Sign and return this Agreement to the Department.

                                      SCOPE OF WORK

After communities have completed the above four steps, America250 Utah will share a unique,
community-specific logo with the community and an organizing stipend. Counties and Tribal
nations that create a Utah250 Community committee may receive a stipend of $3,000 and cities
may receive a stipend of $1,500.

                                 TERMS AND CONDITIONS

The parties agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I-DEFINITIONS

Unless the Agreement clearly indicates the contrary, the following terms have the following
meanmgs:

1.1     "Confidential Information" means information that is deemed private, protected,
controlled, or confidential under applicable state and federal laws, including personal information.
The Department and the State of Utah reserve the right to identify, during and after this Agreement,
additional reasonable types of categories of information that must be kept confidential under
federal and state laws.

1.2    " Trademark" means the Entity-specific logo that the Department creates and provide to
Entity under this Agreement.

1.3   "Licensed Products" means any Entity-designed or -produced products that feature the
Trademark.

l .4   "Licensed Territmy" means the United States and its territories, and possessions.

                    ARTICLE II-GRANT OF TRADEMARK LICENSE

2. 1       If for any reason Entity wishes to utilize tl1e America250 Utah or America250™ logos
or marks in a way not permitted by this Agreement, Entity must first submit a request to Nicole
Handy or their successor for Department review and approval.

2.2     Upon the terms and conditions in this Agreement, the Department grants to Entity and
Entity accepts, for the Agreement tenn, the limited right to use the Trademark in the Licensed
Territory.

2.3    Unless sooner terminated under A1ticle VI, the Agreement will remain in force until
December 31, 2026. If the Agreement is renewed, the new Agreement shall expire five (5) years
from the prior expiration date.

2.4     The Department shall be permitted to provide input on and final say on the Trademark's
use in any Licensed Product.

2.5     This Agreement may be amended or modified only by written agreement of both parties,
which amendment will be attached to this Agreement. Automatic renewals will not apply to this
Agreement, even if listed elsewhere in the Agreement.
2.6     The Department may use the Trademark however it wishes and may grant license rights
for any use of its Trademark to other vendors dming the term of this Agreement.

2.7    Entity has no authorization, express or implied, to bind the Department or the State of Utah
to any agreements, settlements, liability, or understanding and agrees not to perfonn acts as an
agent for the Department.

2.8    The Department and the America250 Foundation, Inc. ("Foundation") have executed a
separate agreement (" Contract"), available to Entity upon request, that governs the Department's
                                                 2
right to use and sublicense at least one separate trademark from which the Trademark is derived.
In using the Trademark, Entity shall be bound to all ten11S and limitations applicable to the
Department under the Contract. Among other things, those terms and limitations include
Branding and Trademark Usage Guidelines that govern the use of the Trademark. Though the
Department has reviewed the Contract and made the good-faith determination that nothing in this
Agreement conflicts with the separate agreement, this detennination does not constitute legal
advice. Entity shall be responsible for securing legal advice and opinions from its own legal
counsel.

                            ARTICLE ID-USE OF TRADEMARK

3.1    Except as authorized under this Agreement, Entity will not use the Trademark or trade
name in any manner for or in connection with the use, advertising, sale, offer for sale, or promotion
of any Licensed Products without the express written consent of the Department. Entity agrees to
comply with all licensing terms and limitations applicable to the State of Utah under its STATE &
TERRITORY PARTNERSHIP & SUBLICENSE AGREEMENT with America250.org.

3.2    Entity undertakes fully and without reservation to render to the Department all assistance
in connection with any matter pertaining to the Trademark protection, including furnis hing
documents, records, files, or other information; making available its employees; and executing all
necessary documents. The Foundation will maintain the registration for the Trademark.

3.3     Apart from its license rights und·e r this Agreement, Entity will not acquire any right, title,
or interest in the Trademark during this Agreement.

3.4      Entity may not challenge the validity or ownership of the Trademark or assist in any claim
that is adverse to the Depaitment or the State of Utah. Furthermore, Entity may not commit an act
that may prejudice the Foundation or tbe Department's rights in the Trademark or damage the
Foundation or the Department's reputation. Entity may not attempt to register a trademark similar
to the Trademark. The Parties agree that if Entity violates this or any other provision in this
Agreement, the Department or the State of Utah will suffer economic hann and the Department or
the State of Utah will be entitled to seek reasonable damages.

3.5    In addition to the permitted uses described in Article 111, Entity may use the Trademark to
do each of the following:

        1.     Promote events and programs commemorating the Semiquincentennial.
        11.    Share the Trademark with agencies and organizations in the Entity's city, county,
               or tribal jurisdiction;
        111.   Produce, sell, and distribute merchandise bearing the Trademark, subject to all
               other tenns of this Agreement, including Article IV;
        1v.    Create and promote an America250 website with Entity' s county, city, or tribal
               name prominently represented; and
       v.      Utilize the Trademark- but not any of the separate trademarks from which the
               Trademark is derived- for fundraising, corporate sponsorship, or any other
               commercial activity.

3.6     Entity may not do any of the following:

                                                   3
         1.      Alter the Trademark in any way;
         11.     Pursue merchandising or royalty agreements involving the words
                 "America250" or any registered America250 mark; or
         111.    Use the Trademark in connection with the promotion of any partisan or political
                 event or activity.

                            ARTICLE IV-QUALITY CONTROL

4.1    As noted in Section 2.8, the Trademark derives from separate trademarks owned by the
Foundation. Entity may not design or sell products that feature any of those separate trademarks
without the Department's prior written approval.

4.2     Entity will produce, sell, and distribute Licensed Products in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws. The quality of the Licensed Products will at all times be equal to or
greater than the quality of any other products currently produced or sold by Entity.

4.3     On each anniversary of this Agreement, or from time to time upon the Department's
reasonable request, the Department may review random samples of Licensed Products. The
Department may also rev iew any labels, cartons, containers, packing and wrapping materiaL and
advertising and promotional items used in connection with the use Trademark by Entity.

4.4     If the Department objects to a quality change in the Licensed Products, it will inform Entity
inunediately, in writing, and specify the reasons for such disapproval. Entity will have twenty-one
(21) days from the certified mail receipt of such notice to cure any defects. If the Parties
acknowledge that the cure will take longer than twenty-one (21) days, Entity may ask for one l 4-
day extension. If any defects are not cured, the Department may terminate the Agreement under
Article 6.1 .

                                ARTICLE V-ADVERTISING

5.1    From time to time upon the Department's reasonable request, Entity will furnish to the
Department, without cost, 1°epresentative advertising, promotion, and sales examples of materials
bearing the Trademark to the Department to ensure that the Trademark's use accords with this
Agreement.

5.2   In all printed materials, Entity must acknowledge that the Foundation owns and the
Department sublicenses the Trademark.

                      ARTICLE VI-DEFAULT AND TERMINATION

6.1     The Department may terminate this Agreement with cause at any time by written notice to
Entity. Cause includes Entity's breach of any provisions in this Agreement or if Entity is otherwise
in default and does not cure the breach or default within twenty-one (21) days after written notice
by the Department, delivered via USPS certified mail.

6.2     This Agreement may also be terminated without cause (for convenience), in advance of the
expiration date, by either pa11y, upon one hundred eighty (180) days' prior written termination
notice being given to the other party.

                                                 4
6.3     If this Agreement is terminated by the Department for cause, or terminated without cause
by either party, the Parties will confer on the sale of remaining Licensed Product and the
Department reserves the right to demand that the remaining inventory be sold within one hundred
eighty ( 180) days. Upon termination of this Agreement, and after the one hundred eighty ( 180)
day sell-off period, Entity will be prohibited from selling Licensed Product. If any portion of the
stipend has not been used or spent by Entity, then within five business days of notice of termination
from the Department, Entity shall refund the unused portion of the stipend. If Entity creates a
material breach of this Agreement, the Department shall have the right to demand and collect the
stipend from Entity.

                 ARTICLE VII-INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE

7 .1    Entity shall hold hannless, defend, and indemnify the Department against any and all
claims, demands, and causes of action arising out of any defects or Entity's failure to perform as
to the Licensed Products or any material used in connection therewith or any use thereof.

7.2     Entity repfesents that it is a fully self-insured governmental entity covered by Utah' s
Division of Risk Management or a comparable agency within its county, municipal, or tribal
government. Based solely on this representation, Entity shall not be required to carry additional
insurance. If at any time during the Agreement term the first sentence of this section ceases to be
true, Entity sl1all immediately purchase commercial general liability insurance from an insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Utah. The limits of such insurance shall be no
less than one million dollars ($ 1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate, and Entity shall add the State of Utah as an additional insured with
notice of cancellation.

7 .3  Entity warrants that any Licensed Products provided by them under this License
Agreement will not, to Entity's knowledge, infringe any third-party copyTights, patents,
Trademark, or trade secrets that exist, arise, or are enforceable under the laws of the United States.

                             ARTICLE VIII-MISCELLANEOUS

8.1    The Parties are governmental entities subject to the Governmental Inununity Act ("Act").
The execution of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver or forfeiture of any protections or
defenses under the Act.

8.2     This Agreement is governed by the laws, mies, and regulations of Utah. Any action or
proceeding arising from this Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in
the State of Utah. Exclusive venue shall be in Salt Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court
for Salt Lake County.

8.3     Entity agrees to abide by federal and state employment laws, including: (i) Title VI and
VIl of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e), which prohibits discrimination against any
employee or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of services, on the basis of
race, religion, color, or national origin; (ii) Executive Order No. 11246, as amended, which
prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45 CFR 90, which prohibits discrimination on the
basis of age; (iv) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v) Utah's Executive
                                                  5
Order, dated December 13, 2006, which prohibits unlawful harassment in the workplace. Entity
further agrees to abide by any other laws, regulations, or orders that prohibit the discrimination of
any kind by any of Entity's employees.

8.4     Entity will not represent itself as the agent or legal representative for the Department, the
State of Utah, or the Foundation for any purpose whatsoever, and has no right to create or assume
any similar obligation, express or implied, for or on behalf of the Department, the State of Utah,
or the Foundation in any way. This Agreement does not create any agency, partnership, or joint
venture between the parties.

8.5     This Agreement will not be assigned, transferred, or sublicensed by Entity except with the
Department's prior written consent. Any violation of the preceding sentence is null and void and
any attempt by Entity to assign, transfer, or sublicense its rights will result in immediate
termination of this Agreement and Entity's rights to the Trademark. Subject to such restriction and
to the restriction against assignment provided above, this Agreement binds to the parties' benefit
and their permitted successors.

8.6     If any part of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of the Agreement shall remain valid.

8. 7   Neither party will be held responsible for delay or default caased by fire, riot, act of God,
and/or war that is beyond that party's reasonable control. The Department or the State of Utah may
tenrunate tl1is Agr,eement after determining such delay will prevent successful perfonnance of this
Agreement.

8.8   A waiver of any right, power, or privilege shall not be construed as a waiver of any
subsequent right, power, or privilege.

8.9    In the event of any judicial action to enforce rights under this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled its costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees incurred in
connection with such action.

8. l O This Agreement constitutes the complete and final agreement between the parties and
supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings between
the parties, whether oral or written.

8. l l All notices and statements required under this Agreement will be in writing addressed to
the pa11ies at their respective addresses specified above and sent certified mail or email, return
receipt requested, unless an address change notification is given in writing. The mailing date is the
date the notice or statement is given.

                 (This section is intentionally left blank. Signature page follows)




                                                  6
IN WITNESS, the parties have caused this instnunent to be duly executed as of the day and year
first above written.

State of Utah, Department of Cultural              Cottonwood Heights:
And Community Engagement:


By:_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _                         By:
                                                         - - - - - - -- - - --
                                                       Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
Print Name:                                        Date: 3 March 2026
            - -- - - - - - --
Title:
       - - -- -- - - - - - -
Date: - - - -- - - - -
                                                   ATTEST:


                                                   By:
                                                         - - - - - - -- - - -- -
                                                         Tiffany Janzen, Recorder




                                              7
