COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
AMENDED
March 4, 2026
This agenda was amended on March 2, 2026, to add Item 3.2 – Project CUP-25-005 (Old Mill Demolition) to the Business
Session

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, March
4, 2026, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

    1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers
    2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

        2.0 CUP-25-005 -Old Mill Demolition

        3.0 Use Table Update

        4.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose.

        2.0 General Public Comment
        This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
        scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
        Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

        3.0 Business Items

                3.1 Project CUP-26-003
                The Planning Commission will review and take possible action on a Conditional Use Permit request
                by Mark Schik to operate children's Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy office/daycare at 1950
                E. Fort Union.

                3.2 Project CUP-25-005
                The Planning Commission will review on a Conditional Use Permit request to demolish a structure
                located within the Cottonwood Paper Mill (“Old Mill”) site.

        4.0 Consent Agenda
               4.1 Approval of January 21, and February 4, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.
       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: April 1, 2026.


Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Monday, March 2, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 2nd DAY OF MARCH 2026, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
STAFF REPORT
March 4, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-26-003

Subject Property:
1950 East Fort Union Blvd

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval for
children's Applied Behavior
Analysis (ABA) therapy
office/daycare

Applicants:
Mark Schik

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions




                                      Aerial View

Context
Property Owners:
Saunders Holdings LLC

Address & Parcel #:
1950 East Fort Union Blvd
22-21-483-013-0000

Acres:
0.45

Zoning:
CR – Regional Commercial




                               View of property from north
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                                                   March 4, 2026


Request
The applicant is requesting approval to operate an outpatient pediatric Applied Behavior Analysis
(ABA) clinic.

Little Champs ABA UT LLC is requesting approval of a Conditional Use Permit to operate a clinic-
based Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy facility serving children ages 2–8. The proposed
clinic would operate Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., with no overnight
services.

The business currently provides in-home ABA therapy and seeks to expand into a clinic-based
setting to meet growing community demand for early intervention services. All services will occur
indoors within an existing professional office space. Only minimal interior modifications are
proposed, and no exterior changes are planned

The clinic will operate on a scheduled basis. Drop-off is anticipated between 8:00–9:00 a.m., and
pick-up between 4:00–5:00 p.m., with staggered arrival times to avoid clustering. Parents are
expected to park briefly (approximately 1–2 minutes) during drop-off and pick-up. The applicant
states the site provides adequate parking, including access to 50% of the shared lot plus three
designated spaces

ABA services are structured, evidence-based therapy sessions conducted in a quiet, supervised
clinical environment. No heavy machinery, outdoor activity areas, or hazardous materials are
proposed. The applicant states the clinic will provide a community benefit by increasing access to
early intervention services for children with autism spectrum disorder and other developmental
needs and reducing travel burdens for families within Cottonwood Heights.

Floor plan




                              Floor plan (no exterior changes)
                                                                                        Page 2 of 7
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                                                   March 4, 2026

Parking Detail




The applicant states the site provides adequate parking, including access to 50% of the shared lot
plus three designated spaces




                                                                                        Page 3 of 7
             Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                               March 4, 2026


Zoning Map




                R-1-8                CR
              Residential        Regional
             Single Family      Commercial

                        Zoning Map




                                                                 Page 4 of 7
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                                                    March 4, 2026


Analysis
Zoning
The subject property is located within the CR (Regional Commercial) zoning district. Pursuant to
CHMC §19.40.030.B, “Nursery schools and day care centers” are listed as conditional uses within
the CR zone.
The applicant proposes to operate a children’s Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy clinic serving
children ages 2–8 during weekday daytime hours. While ABA therapy is a structured clinical service,
the operational characteristics of the proposed use are comparable to those of a nursery school or
day care center in that:
    • Services are provided to minors in a supervised setting;
    • Clients are dropped off and picked up by parents or guardians;
    • Activities occur indoors during standard daytime business hours;
    • No overnight care is provided;
    • No outdoor play areas or exterior site modifications are proposed.

ABA therapy focuses on improving communication, social, behavioral, and daily living skills through
individualized, evidence-based therapy provided in one-on-one or small-group sessions by trained
professionals. The services are educational and developmental in nature and do not involve medical
procedures, overnight stays, or disruptive equipment. Based on these operational characteristics,
staff finds the proposed use to be appropriately reviewed under the conditional use category for
nursery schools and day care centers in the CR zoning district.

19.84.080 Determination

   A. Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
      public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
      factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
      approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;
      postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
      applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use.
   B. In approving a conditional use, the planning commission may impose such requirements
      and conditions as it deems necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
      welfare. The planning commission shall only approve with conditions, or deny a conditional
      use, based upon written findings of fact with regard to each of the standards set forth below
      and, where applicable, any special standards for conditional uses set forth in the specific
      zoning district. The planning commission shall not approve issuance of a conditional use
      permit unless the evidence presented is such as to establish the following:
         1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning
             district in which it is to be located;
         2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental
             to the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working
             in the vicinity;
         3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
             compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
         4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in
             which it is to be located;

                                                                                           Page 5 of 7
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                                                    March 4, 2026

           5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be
               abated by the conditions imposed;
           6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will
               be assured;
           7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
           8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
               imposed on the applicant or owner;
           9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly
               designed;
           10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
               development;
           11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light,
               noise and visual impacts;
           12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
               surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
               ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
           13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses
               will be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
           14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features
               of the property; and
           15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
           16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of
               Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.

Noticing
Notice of the public hearing was mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property
at least 10 days prior to the public hearing, in accordance with CHMC §19.84.050.



Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
   1. The applicant has provided a written narrative and supporting materials addressing client
      parking, hours of operation, staffing, and traffic flow. Based on the information submitted,
      staff finds that the proposed business will not negatively impact the surrounding area.
   2. A Planning Commission public hearing will be held in accordance with applicable local and
      state noticing and procedural requirements to consider the Conditional Use Permit request.

Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the application with conditions:

Conditions of Approval
   1. The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business license for the
      duration of the operations.
   2. All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing property. The
      business shall not rely on on-street parking or adjacent off-property parking lots.

                                                                                          Page 6 of 7
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-003
                                                                                   March 4, 2026

   3. A building permit shall be obtained for any exterior signage and other alterations to the
      premises that normally require a building permit.
   4. Any exterior signage and other exterior alterations will meet the guidelines outlined in the
      Gateway Overlay District (§19.49).
   5. Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon complaint or
      evidence of noncompliance with the conditions of approval or applicable City codes.
   6. Any expansion or change in the scope of the business shall require additional City review and
      approval.

Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-26-003, based upon the recommended findings for approval
outlined in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-26-003, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1.   Applicant Narrative
   2.   Traffic/parking plan
   3.   Floor plan
   4.   Owner consent




                                                                                        Page 7 of 7
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION

Applicant / Business Name
Little Champs ABA UT LLC

Proposed Business Address
1950 E Fort Union Blvd, Suite 100
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121

Owner / Authorized Representative
Mark Schik
Phone: 385-494-3500
Email: mark@littlechampsaba.com

Proposed Hours of Operation
Monday through Friday
8:00 AM – 6:00 PM

Ages Served
Children ages 2–8 years old

Overnight Services
None

Construction / Renovations
Minimal interior modifications only

Project Overview

Little Champs ABA UT LLC is requesting approval for a Conditional Use Permit to operate an
outpatient pediatric Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) clinic at 1950 E Fort Union Blvd, Suite
100, Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121.

Little Champs ABA currently provides in-home ABA therapy services and is seeking to
expand into clinic-based services to meet a growing community need. The proposed clinic
will provide structured, evidence-based therapy in a safe, professional, and supervised
environment.




      Little Champs ABA


      (385) 494-3500


      info@littlechampsaba.com


      www.littlechampsaba.com
Description of Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA)

Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) is a widely recognized, evidence-based therapy used to
support children with autism spectrum disorder and other developmental or neurodiverse
needs. ABA therapy focuses on improving communication, social skills, adaptive behaviors,
and daily living skills through individualized treatment plans and positive reinforcement.

In a clinic setting, ABA services include one-on-one or small group therapy sessions,
structured learning activities, play-based skill development, and continuous supervision by
trained clinical professionals. The clinic environment provides consistency and access to
therapeutic resources that support early intervention and positive developmental outcomes.

Clinic Operations

The clinic will operate Monday through Friday from 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM. Children will be
dropped off by parents or guardians in the morning and picked up at the end of the day. No
overnight services will be provided.

All services are scheduled and conducted indoors. The clinic does not use heavy machinery,
industrial equipment, or loud tools. Activities are quiet in nature and compatible with
surrounding commercial and professional uses.

Facility and Site Information

The space at 1950 E Fort Union Blvd, Suite 100 is already built out for professional use. Little
Champs ABA plans only minimal interior modifications to configure therapy rooms, learning
areas, and administrative spaces. No exterior modifications or major construction are
proposed.

Insurance Acceptance and Accessibility

Little Champs ABA UT LLC accepts a wide range of insurance plans, including private
insurance and state-funded insurance programs. Acceptance of state insurance allows the
clinic to serve families who may otherwise face financial barriers to accessing therapy
services.

This inclusive approach ensures that services are accessible to children across all
socioeconomic backgrounds and expands access to care based on need.




      Little Champs ABA


      (385) 494-3500


      info@littlechampsaba.com


      www.littlechampsaba.com
Compatibility with Surrounding Uses

The proposed clinic is compatible with surrounding commercial and professional uses. The
clinic will generate minimal noise, no outdoor activity areas, no overnight traffic, and no
hazardous materials. Operations align with the character and expectations of the surrounding
area.

Community Benefit

The proposed clinic will benefit the Cottonwood Heights community by increasing access to
essential early intervention and developmental services for children on the autism spectrum
and those with other neurodiverse needs. The clinic will reduce travel burdens for families,
support working parents with consistent weekday hours, and help address the shortage of
clinic-based ABA services in the area.

Conclusion

Little Champs ABA UT LLC respectfully requests approval of this Conditional Use Permit.
The proposed clinic will operate responsibly, comply with all applicable regulations, and
provide a valuable service that supports children and families within the Cottonwood Heights
community.

Sincerely,

Mark Schik
Owner
Little Champs ABA UT LLC




      Little Champs ABA


      (385) 494-3500


      info@littlechampsaba.com


      www.littlechampsaba.com
GOOGLE MAP
                                  Parking and Pick Up/Drop Off

We are writing to provide additional clarification regarding parking usage and drop-off and
pick-up procedures for Little Champs ABA, and to further explain why our operations will not
negatively impact traffic flow or cause congestion.

Parking Availability and Usage
Per our lease agreement with the landlord, Little Champs ABA is entitled to use 50% of the
total parking available on the property, in addition to three parking spaces designated
exclusively for our use. The property includes parking areas at the front, side, and rear of the
building, all of which are available and accessible. This distribution of parking allows vehicles
to disperse naturally rather than concentrate in one area, significantly reducing the potential
for congestion.

Our operations do not involve high-volume, continuous vehicle turnover. Staff members
arrive prior to client drop-off times and remain on site throughout the day, limiting staff-related
traffic during peak hours. Visitor traffic outside of drop-off and pick-up times is minimal.

Drop-Off and Pick-Up Procedures
Client drop-off occurs between 8:00 and 9:00 a.m., and pick-up typically takes place between
4:00 and 5:00 p.m. These windows are spread over a full hour, preventing clustering of
vehicles at any single point in time. Parents briefly park their vehicles for approximately one
to two minutes to drop off or pick up their child before exiting the parking lot.

This short duration of parking ensures a steady flow of vehicles rather than prolonged
occupancy of parking spaces. There are no situations in which vehicles are queued or idling
in drive lanes. Entry and exit points remain clear at all times.

Additionally, Little Champs ABA serves a limited number of clients at any given time, further
reducing traffic volume. Unlike retail or medical facilities with frequent walk-in traffic, our
services operate on scheduled appointments only, creating predictable and controlled traffic
patterns.

Overall, the combination of ample parking availability, staggered arrival and departure times,
short vehicle dwell times, and low overall traffic volume ensures that our operations will not
create congestion or interfere with safe and efficient access to the property.




       Little Champs ABA


       (385) 494-3500


       info@littlechampsaba.com


       www.littlechampsaba.com
We appreciate your time and consideration and are happy to provide any additional
information if needed.

Sincerely,
Mark Schik
Little Champs ABA




      Little Champs ABA


      (385) 494-3500


      info@littlechampsaba.com


      www.littlechampsaba.com
PLAT MAP




    Designated Parking
    for LC
FLOOR PLAN
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT (WORK SESSION)
March 4, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-005

Subject Property:
6851 S. Big Cottonwood
Canyon Rd

Action Requested:
Review and discussion




                         Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Doug Shelby; WDOM
Properties LLC

Acreage:
0.86 acres




                               Google Street View
                                                         Planning Commission Work Session– March 4, 2026
                                                   Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd


Background / Summary
The request to demolish the Cottonwood Paper Mill was presented to the Planning Commission on
January 21, 2026. Pursuant to Section 19.86.040 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code,
applications involving designated historic sites must pend before the Planning Commission for a
minimum period of one year prior to a final decision. Accordingly, no formal action may be taken on the
demolition request until that review period has elapsed.

During this interim period, the Planning Commission has directed staff to conduct additional research
and provide further analysis to inform its eventual decision. Specifically, the Commission has requested
the following:

    •   National Historic Designation Impact: Research how the structure’s National Register of Historic
        Places designation affects the City’s review authority and decision-making regarding the
        proposed demolition.
    •   History of Enforcement Measures: Provide a history of any enforcement measures the City has
        taken related to the property, along with a timeline outlining how the City’s historic
        preservation ordinances have evolved since incorporation in 2006.
    •   Liability Considerations: Analyze potential municipal liability associated with approving,
        approving with conditions, or denying the demolition request.
    •   City’s Preservation Efforts: Outline the City’s previous efforts to preserve the Cottonwood Paper
        Mill, including outreach to donors, preservation organizations, or other collaborative initiatives.
    •   Historic Designation Process: Summarize the process for designation on the National Register of
        Historic Places and compare it to the City’s historic designation process under local code.

In addition, the applicant has provided materials for the March 4, 2026 Planning Commission work
session, which are included in the attachments to this staff report. The submitted materials address the
following topics:

    •   Flood damage statement; seismic analysis; Utah seismic law and code.
    •   Cark Eriksson, SL County Chief Building Official, Inspection Report (1996)

The applicant has also proposed a schedule for future Planning Commission meetings to address
additional topics. Walker Development and members of the Walker family have indicated that public
discussion regarding the Old Mill is important and that additional time is needed to review historical
records dating back to 1923 to ensure accurate information is presented.

The applicant has indicated that the following schedule is feasible and has expressed hope that it is
agreeable to the Planning Commission.

The proposed schedule includes:

    •   April 2026 Planning Commission Work Session – Donations and contributions related to
        preservation
    •   May 2026 Planning Commission Work Session – Maintenance, rebuild, and renovation
        considerations
    •   June 2026 Planning Commission Work Session – Old Mill business review


                                                                                                Page 2 of 6
                                                        Planning Commission Work Session– March 4, 2026
                                                  Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd

The following report addresses the Commission’s requested research items to assist in developing a
complete record during the required one-year review period.


Analysis of Planning Commission Requested Items
National Historic Register Designation Impact
The Cottonwood Paper Mill is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, which recognizes
the structure’s historical significance at the national level. However, inclusion on the National
Register does not, by itself, prohibit demolition or alteration of the structure by a private property
owner, nor does it impose direct regulatory authority on the City.
Federal historic preservation law distinguishes between recognition and regulation. National
Register listing is primarily honorary and does not restrict a private property owner’s right to alter or
demolish a property unless a federal nexus exists, such as federal funding, federal permits, or
federal land ownership.
If federal funding, permits, or approvals were involved, Section 106 of the National Historic
Preservation Act would require review of impacts to historic resources. In the absence of such
federal involvement, Section 106 review is not triggered.
Accordingly:
    •   National Register listing establishes historical significance.
    •   It does not independently regulate demolition.
    •   It does not supersede local land use authority.
    •   The City’s authority to review and act on the demolition request arises from local land use
        and historic preservation regulations.


History of Enforcement Measures
A review of City records, including archived files dating back to the City’s incorporation in 2005, did
not identify any documented enforcement actions taken by the City related to nuisances, safety
concerns, or protective maintenance requirements under Section 19.86.045 (Protective
Maintenance Required) of the City Code.
Based on the available records, there is no evidence of formal notices of violation, corrective
orders, citations, or other enforcement measures initiated by the City pursuant to the protective
maintenance provisions of Chapter 19.86.


Evolution of the City’s Historic Preservation Ordinance
Chapter 19.86 (Historic Preservation) was adopted at the time of the City’s incorporation in 2005
and established the framework for identifying and regulating locally designated historic sites. The
chapter provides for Planning Commission review of alterations and demolition, establishes



                                                                                               Page 3 of 6
                                                       Planning Commission Work Session– March 4, 2026
                                                 Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd
maintenance requirements, and outlines standards applicable to historic properties. Based on a
review of City records, Chapter 19.86 has remained substantively unchanged since its adoption.
In May 2024, the City adopted Ordinance No. 416, codified as Chapter 15.15 (Demolition). This
ordinance strengthened the City’s regulatory authority over demolition, particularly for historic
structures. Key components include:
   •   Requiring both a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) and a Certificate of Appropriateness before
       demolition of a historic structure may occur;
   •   Establishing a hardship standard that must be proven by clear and convincing evidence
       before a Certificate of Appropriateness may be issued;
   •   Creating civil and criminal penalties for illegal demolition, including $500 per day civil
       penalties for historic structures; and
   •   Requiring reconstruction or imposing a 25-year redevelopment restriction if a historic
       structure is demolished unlawfully.
Together, Chapters 19.86 and 15.15 form the City’s current regulatory framework governing historic
preservation and demolition.


City’s Preservation Efforts
As part of the Planning Commission’s request, staff has begun compiling information regarding the
City’s past efforts to preserve the Cottonwood Paper Mill. Staff contacted former Mayor Mike
Weichers to gather background information on preservation initiatives undertaken during his
administration.
Former Mayor Weichers indicated that during his tenure, he pursued several avenues for potential
funding to assist with preservation of the structure. These efforts included outreach to
organizations such as the Utah Historical Society and exploration of available historic preservation
grant opportunities. Based on those discussions, the City learned that available funding options
were limited, consisting primarily of relatively small grants that were not sufficient to address the
broader preservation needs of the site.
At this time, the former Mayor is unable to access his prior City email account and therefore cannot
recall or provide documentation of each specific instance of outreach or funding exploration. Staff
is coordinating with the former Mayor and other previous staff members to gather additional
details, including correspondence, meeting summaries, grant programs explored, and other
preservation-related initiatives, in order to develop a more complete timeline of the City’s efforts.
Staff will also coordinate with the City’s IT Department to determine whether prior email
correspondence can be retrieved to supplement the record and ensure the Planning Commission
receives the most complete information available.
Staff will provide any additional information obtained to the Planning Commission at future
meeting dates to ensure the record reflects the full scope of preservation efforts undertaken.




                                                                                             Page 4 of 6
                                                     Planning Commission Work Session– March 4, 2026
                                                Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd



Historic Designation Process: National Register vs. City Designation
National Register of Historic Places – Overview
National Register designation is a federal recognition process administered by the National Park
Service. The process generally includes:
   •   Documentation of historical, architectural, or cultural significance under established
       criteria;
   •   Review by the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO); and
   •   Approval by the National Park Service.
National Register listing provides formal recognition and may make a property eligible for
incentives such as tax credits or grants. However, it does not regulate land use, requires
maintenance, or prohibit demolition by a private owner absent federal involvement.
Cottonwood Heights Historic Designation – Local Authority
Cottonwood Heights’ historic designation process is established under Chapter 19.86 of the City
Code and functions as a local regulatory tool.
Key provisions include:
   •   Purpose (CHMC §19.86.010):
       The regulations are intended to preserve sites, structures, landmarks, or buildings with
       special historical, architectural, or aesthetic value that are unique and irreplaceable
       assets.
   •   Designation Authority (CHMC §19.86.020):
       The City Code identifies locally designated historic sites, including the Granite Paper Mill.
       The City Council may amend the list of designated historic sites through formal amendment
       procedures under Chapter 19.90.
Unlike National Register listing, local historic designation directly affects development rights.
Modifications, alterations, or demolition of designated historic sites require Planning Commission
review and approval, and the Commission may apply conditions or deny requests based on
adopted preservation standards.
For purposes of this demolition request:
   •   National Register designation recognizes historical significance but does not independently
       regulate demolition.
   •   Local historic designation under Chapter 19.86 is the operative authority governing the
       City’s review.
   •   The Planning Commission’s discretion arises from Chapters 15.5 and 19.86 of the City
       Code, not federal historic preservation law.




                                                                                             Page 5 of 6
                                                        Planning Commission Work Session– March 4, 2026
                                                  Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd




Attachments
  A.   Cark Eriksson, SL County Chief Building Official, Inspection Report (1996)
  B.   1983 Flood Damage Statement – Douglas Shelby
  C.   Geological Hazards Mapping and Data Report (2026)
  D.   Highlights of Utah Seismic Law and Code




                                                                                            Page 6 of 6
                           Attachment - A
Clark Eriksson, SL County Chief Building Official,
                        Inspection Report (1996)
                       Attachment - B
1983 Flood damage Statement - Douglas Shelby
                           Attachment - C
Geological Hazards Mapping and Data Report (2026)
                 Attachment - D
Highlights of Utah Seismic Law and Code
                   MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, January 21, 2026
                                           5:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa; City Attorney, Shane Topham

Absent:                Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda and reported that the General Public
Comment period would be followed by two Business Items and the Consent Agenda. The next
Planning Commission meeting will be held on February 24, 2026.

Planner III, Maverick Yeh, reported that item 3.1 was Project CUP-26-001, a request for a
Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) to operate a home business with clients at 2137 Lorita Way. The
property is zoned R-1-8 Single-Family Residential. The applicant requested approval to perform
non-medical cosmetic services, including cosmetic teeth whitening using over-the-counter vegan
products and cosmetic tooth gem services. The business owner will meet with clients Tuesday
through Saturday between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and anticipates between two and
four clients per day. Appointments will be staggered to prevent overlapping arrivals and
departures. The proposed use is low impact and not expected to generate noise, odors, or traffic
beyond typical residential activity. Only one client vehicle will be on-site at any time, and no retail
sales, commercial deliveries, or structural modifications were proposed.

Mr. Yeh reviewed the floor plan and site photographs. The business will utilize the first-floor
office area and restroom, as well as a designated parking area. Staff analysis determined that the
use would be incidental and secondary to the primary residential use and consistent with the intent
of the zone, subject to compliance with the Conditions of Approval outlined in the Staff Report.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            1
In response to a question, Mr. Yeh reported that the applicant had indicated that she can
accommodate a maximum of four clients per day, and there will be a buffer between appointment
times. That was not specified in the conditions, but language could be added to Condition 3 to
limit the number of clients per day. Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung,
suggested that clients be limited to one at a time.

Commissioner Lugo expressed concern about opening the door for other businesses in the
neighborhood and asked if it was in opposition to the City’s economic development plan.
Mr. Spung clarified that home occupations are allowed as a conditional use. If any potential
negative impacts can be reasonably mitigated, the Planning Commission is required to approve the
application.

Commissioner Mills asked about the mechanism for handling potential complaints. Mr. Spung
reported that the CUP establishes the rules that must be followed to operate the home occupation.
If the applicant does not follow the rules, the CUP and business license can be modified or revoked.

Item 3.2 was Project CUP-25-005. City Attorney, Shane Topham, reported that the item is the
first step in a process that will take at least one year to complete. An application has not yet been
made for the Certificate of Appropriateness for demolition, which will be considered by the City
Council.

Mr. Spung stated that the request was to demolish the Old Mill structure at 6851 South Big
Cottonwood Canyon Road, and the item would be discussed but not decided upon in the Business
Meeting. The application would be reviewed by the Planning Commission, after which the
applicant would present information and answer questions. A public hearing would then be
conducted prior to the Planning Commission determining next steps. Cottonwood Heights
Municipal Code (“CHMC”) §19.86.040 requires a one-year waiting period before action can be
taken on the CUP. That time can be used to collect information, answer questions, and perform a
more in-depth review of the application and relevant sections of the CHMC. However, there are
no requirements for additional meetings or public hearings.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Topham clarified that the ordinance
requires a one-year waiting period to provide time to gather information and make a considered
decision. The waiting period is not optional.

Mr. Spung reported that the structure is designated as a historical site in CHMC §19.86.020(A)(1),
which triggers additional review criteria. A Certificate of Appropriateness from the City Council
is required in addition to the CUP from the Planning Commission. The applicant cannot apply for
the Certificate of Appropriateness until the one-year waiting period is complete and a CUP is
issued, and the Council has four months from the time the complete application is received to make
a decision. The application could theoretically be made earlier, but Staff would advise them to
wait until the Planning Commission had made its decision.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung reported that the Appeals Officer denied a variance request
to waive the 12-month waiting period.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          2
CHMC §19.86.040, Noncomplying Conditional Uses, states:

The Planning Commission shall not approve a Conditional Use for a historic site which would be
contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance, the
historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:

       1.      The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in
               Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses”;

       2.      The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property
               is located; and

       3.      The application has been pending before the Planning Commission for a period of
               at least one year.

Mr. Spung reported that specific review criteria was included in the Staff Report. Additionally, as
the use is required to comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of the entire CHMC, the
Planning Commission can also consider §19.86, Historic Preservation.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung stated that after the one-year waiting period and four-month
City Council review period, the applicant will need to apply for a building permit and any other
required permits. Conditions can be placed on the CUP when the motion is made in January 2027,
but they can be discussed at any time.

Staff recommended that the item be continued to a future date and asked that the Planning
Commission inform them as to how often they would like to meet to discuss the application.
Commissioner Anderson remarked that the project is very complex and suggested that it be
discussed at every meeting. Chair Steinman stated that the Commission should establish
milestones to better understand what data needs to be collected to make an informed decision.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Topham reported that the site has
been on the list of Historic Structures since Title 19 was adopted in 2005, and it was on Salt Lake
County’s list of Historic Structures prior to the City’s incorporation. Mr. Spung added that it was
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971.

Commissioner Mills asked if the site’s inclusion on the National Register had any bearing on the
decision. Staff will research any potential affect the National and State registers may have on the
City’s review process.

Commissioner Mills stated that seismic studies for the site and any adjacent properties would also
be helpful. Mr. Spung stated that seismic data would be required for new developments. The
applicant can be asked to provide information if a reason is provided as to why it would affect the
Planning Commission’s decision. Commissioner Mills stated that historical studies should be
available, although they may not be accurate. Commissioner Shelton questioned if discovery of a



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        3
fault at the site would impact the CUP to demolish the building. Mr. Spung reviewed the list of
studies included in the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant can be asked about specific
studies during the Business Meeting.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Topham stated that the City did not
condemn the property. Staff could research which entity condemned it, the reasons for
condemnation, and whether it was condemned prior to being designated a Historic Site by
Cottonwood Heights. Chair Steinman requested information on any additional oversight that
would be necessary if it had been condemned pre-designation, as well as what work would be
required to issue a Certificate of Occupancy. Mr. Topham stated that he was aware of structures
that were condemned, but later the problems were cured, and the structure became habitable. He
believes that the City Council will want to conduct its own study of the structure to verify its
condition and determine if it can be restored.

Chair Steinman stated that, to his recollection, the property was subject to a $500 per day fee for
not curing maintenance and safety issues. Mr. Topham stated that he did not recall any fees being
collected, but it was a question for Code Enforcement.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the County would have any jurisdiction if it had condemned the
property. Mr. Topham clarified that it is a City issue.

In response to a question, Mr. Topham stated that he was unsure of the City’s liability exposure if
it does not allow the owner to demolish an unsafe structure and an accident occurs. Commissioner
Mills stated that the Historic Structure was not adequately maintained. Commissioner Smith stated
that the City adopted the County Code and added the section on maintenance. If the property was
condemned and no longer habitable prior to that time, that means it was already in a state of
disrepair when the City incorporated.

Chair Steinman asked about the protocol to add structures to the City’s Historic Registry and how
a private party can be required to maintain a condemned building. He believes understanding the
structure’s history is an important consideration. The Planning Commission also needs to ensure
that the building is being treated comparably to the Butler School Teachers' Dormitory. He loves
the Old Mill and would like to see it preserved, but it is important to consider property rights. They
should also consider who could take on the potential $50-million liability of retrofitting the
structure.

Chair Steinman believes it is important to understand the process because the City could
hypothetically face a similar issue if the Butler School Teachers Dormitory is sold and found to
have so much deferred maintenance that it is also condemned.

Mr. Topham stated that the structures in CHMC §19.86 were transferred from Salt Lake County
code. When the City was formed, the City Council directed him to draft zoning ordinances to
mimic County ordinances as closely as possible. Adding or subtracting structures would be done
via a Text Amendment. The Planning Commission would review the proposed change and make
a recommendation to the City Council, which would then make the final decision.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                           4
Mr. Spung encouraged the Commission to refrain from speculating. They would have a year to
collect and review information prior to making their decision. He then reviewed the current list of
questions and concerns.

    •   How do the national and state historic designations affect the City’s review and decisions?
    •   Provide more seismic information with regard to fault lines and how that might affect the
        structure’s future.
    •   When was the structure condemned and why? Provide associated documentation.
    •   What has the City done historically to enforce the Historic Preservation Code standards?
    •   Is there any City liability in regard to the property?
    •   When was the maintenance clause added to City code?
    •   Provide more history on the structure and differences in City and County code.
    •   Detail the specific process by which a Historic Structure is designated in the City.

Commissioner Mills stated that all the City’s Mayors have spoken with potential large donors, all
of whom declined the project. The Mayors have tried to pursue preservation without success. He
asked that those efforts be documented, as members of the public are concerned that no effort was
made toward preservation. He also asked that the applicant speak to previous efforts to turn the
structure into a public performing arts space. He believes it is important that the public understands
the City is not in a fiscal situation to take on a multimillion-dollar project, and efforts to find other
funding sources have failed. Mr. Spung stated that he will defer to the applicant to provide the
bulk of the requested information.

Chair Steinman stated that the City should also detail the steps it has taken to enforce protective
maintenance requirements. Mr. Topham stated that he could not recall an enforcement discussion,
and he had not been privy to a discussion of the property being condemned prior to the City’s
incorporation.

Commissioner Mills stated that the City Council adopted CHMC §15.15 in May 2024, which
imposed new standards of appropriateness. Mr. Topham stated that the standards were imposed
due to a situation in Salt Lake City. A developer began demolishing a historic church building on
a weekend, and demolition was halted after the vestibule had been destroyed. The City Council
was concerned about a similar situation occurring in Cottonwood Heights, and the standards were
adopted to ensure that any unauthorized demolition could be stopped quickly. Language from the
Salt Lake City ordinance was adopted almost verbatim as CHMC §15.15. The decision was made
to put the Certificate of Appropriateness process before the City Council to separate it from the
CUP process.

Chair Steinman asked about the legal process of condemning a property. Mr. Topham stated that
the City has never condemned a property, but it would involve the Building Official and inspection
of the property. He does not know if the City received a file on the structure from Salt Lake County
when Cottonwood Heights was formed.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                              5
2.0    Use Table Update.

Mr. Spung reported that Staff was working to clean up existing City Code. Prior to coming to
Cottonwood Heights, he consulted with cities and counties on updating their land use codes, and
many areas of the City’s current code need to be clarified or cleaned up. For example, each zoning
district has a list of permitted and conditional uses, but the Neighborhood Commercial Zone has
no permitted uses. That creates an administrative burden because all business license applications
require a conditional use review, which is expensive for the applicant and time-consuming for
staff.

Planning Department staff is now in the process of updating the code to better reflect the City’s
current needs. The first step in the process was to extract information from the current code into
a table that can be sorted and categorized. In doing so, they found issues like accessory buildings
are referred to by six different terms and convenience stores by five. Some uses are not defined,
which can make it difficult to properly categorize a business. The next step will be to draft the
missing definitions and reconcile naming conventions. The updated Use Table will provide easy
access to all information. Any standards associated with a specific use will be in its own section.
For example, if pawn shops are allowed in parts of the City, it will indicate where they are allowed,
what type of review is required, and the specific standards that apply to the use. The final Use
Table will be more user-friendly and business-friendly.

3.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                 Wednesday, January 21, 2026
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa; City Attorney, Shane Topham

Absent:                Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

Chair Steinman reviewed the commenting rules. There were no public comments. The Public
Comment period was closed.

3.0    Business Items

       3.1       Project CUP-26-001 – The Planning Commission will Review and
                 Take Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit Request by Maylene Rowe
                 to Operate a Home Business with Clients, Providing Non-Medical, Non-
                 Dental, Cosmetic-Only Teeth Whitening and Tooth Gem Services, at 2137
                 Lorita Way.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                   7
Planner III, Maverick Yeh presented the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant, Maylene
Rowe, had requested a CUP to operate a Home Business with clients at 2137 Lorita Way. The
property is zoned R-1-8 Single-Family Residential.

The applicant requested approval to provide non-medical cosmetic teeth whitening services and
cosmetic tooth gem services in their home. The business owner will meet with clients by
appointment only, Tuesday through Saturday, between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., with
a maximum of four appointments per day. Arrival and departure times will be controlled to
minimize traffic impacts, and only the client will be on-site at any given time. The proposed use
is low impact, and Staff does not expect it to generate noise, odors, or traffic beyond typical
residential activity. No retail sales, commercial deliveries, or structural modifications were
proposed.

 A floor plan and site photographs were reviewed. The business will be operated in a room on the
first floor, and clients will also have access to a first-floor restroom. Client parking will be in the
driveway, which is wide enough to accommodate ingress and egress in addition to the parking
area.

Mr. Yeh reported that one public comment was received in response to the public notice. That
comment was forwarded to the Planning Commission for review.

Staff analysis determined the following:

   •   The subject property is located in the R-1-8 (Single-Family Residential) Zone, and Home
       Occupations with clients are allowed as a Conditional Use in the R-1-8 zone pursuant to
       CHMC §19.26.030.E.
   •   The proposed use is an appointment-only, owner-operated Home Occupation providing
       non-medical cosmetic services within an existing residence.
   •   The business will operate entirely indoors and will not include exterior signage, retail
       activity, or outdoor use.
   •   Staff found the use to be incidental and secondary to the primary residential use and
       consistent with the intent of the zone, subject to compliance with the Conditions of
       Approval outlined in the Staff Report.

Recommended Conditions of Approval:

       1.      The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business
               license for the duration of the home occupation.

       2.      All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing driveway.
               The business shall not rely on on-street parking, and clients must be informed of
               this restriction.

       3.      The home occupation shall operate by appointment only and be limited to the hours
               of 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday, as described in the
               applicant’s written materials in the official project file.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            8
       4.     The business shall be limited to non-medical cosmetic services as described in the
              application. No medical, dental, or invasive procedures shall be conducted on the
              premises.

       5.     The home occupation shall be owner-operated, with no additional employees, and
              shall remain clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of the property.

       6.     No exterior signage, outdoor activity, retail display, or alteration to the exterior
              appearance of the residence is permitted in connection with the home occupation.

       7.     Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon
              complaint or evidence of non-compliance with the Conditions of Approval or
              applicable City codes.

       8.     Any expansion or change in the scope of the business, including hours of operation,
              number of clients, services offered, or parking arrangements, shall require
              additional City review and approval.

       9.     Prior to issuance of a City business license, the applicant shall provide
              documentation demonstrating compliance with any applicable Salt Lake County
              Health Department requirements and/or State of Utah professional licensing
              requirements, as determined by the appropriate regulatory agencies.

Chair Steinman reported that the Planning Commission discussed additional conditions during the
Work Meeting, including limiting the business to one client at a time.

The applicant, Maylene Rowe participated online. She indicated that she can only use one light at
a time, and clients will be seen one at a time by appointment only.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Mills moved APPROVE Project CUP-26-001 based on the Findings and
Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated January 21, 2026, as amended to indicate that
only one client is allowed at a time, with a maximum of five clients daily. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.2    Project CUP-25-005 – The Planning Commission will Hold a Public Hearing
              and Review a Request from Doug Shelby for a Conditional Use Permit for the
              Demolition of a Historic Structure (Cottonwood Paper Mill) at 6851 South Big
              Cottonwood Canyon Road.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the purpose of the



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        9
agenda item was to introduce the application to the Planning Commission and review the
Commission’s decision-making authority as pertains to the request. The applicant was present to
present information and answer questions. The meeting was noticed as a public hearing. After
hearing public comment, he asked that the Planning Commission provide feedback to inform the
City’s next steps in the review process.

Mr. Spung reported that per CHMC §19.86.040, a one-year waiting period is required prior to the
Planning Commission taking action on the item. The soonest a decision can be made is January 21,
2027.

Photographs of the structure were displayed. The property’s current General Plan land use
designation is Mixed Use, and it is zoned Regional Commercial.

The applicant requested to demolish the Old Mill Historic Structure as they claim the structure is
an imminent danger to public safety and structurally unsalvageable due to extensive deterioration
and failure to meet modern building codes. As part of the application, the following supporting
materials were provided:

   •   1996 Carl Eriksson, Salt Lake County Engineer and Chief Building Officer, Statement;
   •   2022 Reavely Engineering Report– Structural Condition Assessment;
   •   2022 Gilson Engineering Report – Structural Assessment of the Feasibility of Restoration;
   •   2024 Gilson Engineering Report – Cost to Mitigate; and
   •   2024 Engineering Review Commissioned by Cottonwood Heights.

The structure is designated as a Historical Site in CHMC §19.86.020(A)(1), and as such the
following are required prior to demolition:

   •   A Certificate of Appropriateness from the City Council as outlined in CHMC §15.15.040.
   •   A Conditional Use Permit from the Planning Commission as outlined in CHMC
       §19.86.030.

CHMC §19.86.040, Noncomplying Conditional Uses, states:

The Planning Commission shall not approve a Conditional Use for a historic site which would be
contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance, the
historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:

       1.      The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in
               Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses”;

       2.      The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property
               is located;

       3.      The application has been pending before the Planning Commission for a period of
               at least one year.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       10
Mr. Spung reported that the Staff Report includes specific City and State review criteria that will
be discussed by the Planning Commission to assess whether the information provided by the
applicant would justify a positive or negative motion. The Planning Department recommended
that the Planning Commission continue the item to a future date for further consideration for the
following reasons:

       1.      In accordance with CHMC §19.86.040(C), the Conditional Use Permit application
               must be pending before the Planning Commission for at least one year before
               formal action.

       2.      The applicant submitted detailed engineering reports and proposed mitigation
               measures for the demolition which must be thoroughly reviewed and evaluated by
               City Staff and the Planning Commission. The City may also wish to commission
               its own survey.

       3.      Further discussion regarding the impact on the community and the City’s historic
               preservation goals to ensure compliance with adopted laws and ordinances.

Chair Steinman stated that most of the Planning Commission’s questions for Staff were discussed
during the Work Session. He then invited the applicant to speak.

Attorney Dan Hemmert spoke on behalf of the applicant. They understood that the meeting would
initiate a yearlong process, and they planned to engage with members of the community and the
Planning Commission during that time. They also understood that the structure is beloved by the
community. The property had been in the family since construction, but it was at the point where
they believed it is a dangerous public nuisance. The structure is unsound, and they cannot bear
the expense of making it safe.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Hemmert to explain why they believe the building to be structurally
unsafe. Mr. Hemmert stated that the property has never been formally condemned. The building
was constructed in the early 1900s as a paper mill. It has been used as a haunted house and in
films, but it has never been a financially viable operation. The building was not constructed with
a foundation. The family has tried to maintain and preserve the structure, but a flood in the 1980s
made it structurally unsound. As it continued to deteriorate, the family grew concerned that a wall
would fall down and injure someone. They invited a County engineer to survey the property and
hired engineering firms to determine what could be done to preserve the structure. Cost estimates
to restore and preserve the structure are as high as $100 million.

Mr. Hemmert stated that the structure is an attraction, and the family is concerned that its walls
will fall down and someone will die. They had offered the structure to the City in the past, but it
did not want to accept the associated liabilities and costs. They believe the best mechanism to
preserve the Old Mill is to tear it down and preserve elements of the structure for inclusion in the
new Town Center. Additionally, they hope to create a plaque in partnership with the Daughters
of Utah Pioneers. The Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee recommended digitally
preserving the building in an exhibit alongside the preserved physical elements. The applicant



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        11
believes that is the safest and best way to preserve the building while eliminating a dangerous
public nuisance.

Chair Steinman asked what steps the applicant had taken to preserve the space since it was placed
on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971, as well as any potential benefits the owner had
received from that status. Mr. Hemmert reported that it was placed on the Utah Registry of Historic
Places in 1966 by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. It is an honorific designation.

Mr. Hemmert provided the following timeline for the structure:

   •   1970s: The structure was rented as a haunted house throughout the decade by various
       charities. The charity that rented the space retained all proceeds.
   •   A sportsmen’s club was proposed, but that proposal did not move forward.
   •   1972: A reception center was proposed, but that proposal also failed to go forward.
   •   1974: The County proposed to purchase the Old Mill, but the bond initiative was defeated.
   •   1975: Septic tank issues were discovered.
   •   1976: A restaurant, ski hostel, and other businesses were proposed, but the building was
       deemed unsuitable for each use.
   •   1978-1979: The site was renovated, including the parking lot, grounds, fencing, curb and
       gutter, and interior furniture and fixtures. The structure was tuckpointed in areas where
       mortar was missing, and drywall and insulation were redone.
   •   1979: The Old Mill Disco opened briefly.
   •   1979-1982: An arts and crafts business operated during the summer, and it was rented as a
       party venue at other times.
   •   Numerous fundraisers were conducted over the years.
   •   1983: Septic tank issues were discovered.
   •   1984: Major wall damage occurred due to flooding. One wall moved six inches.
   •   Various events were held in the building after 1984. There were also several offers to
       purchase the building that fell through.
   •   Pre-COVID, there was an effort to turn the building into a public performing arts center.
       That effort stalled during COVID, and the center was then opened in a different location.
   •   Post-COVID, other venues were proposed but did not come to fruition. The structure
       became less safe, and engineers were brought in to determine what would be required to
       stabilize the structure. The family then engaged with the City to determine next steps.
       They also reached out to various preservation groups for help in preserving the site, but
       those efforts failed. The family then made the decision to request permission to demolish
       the structure.

Chair Steinman asked if the property was occupied between 1984 and 2020. Mr. Hemmert
reported that some fundraisers were held during that time, but there were no long-term tenants.
Chair Steinman asked how the protective maintenance requirement had been met during that time.
Mr. Hemmert stated that the property is under constant monitoring, but he did not know what
specific actions were taken. He would research the matter and provide that information to Staff.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        12
In response to a question, Mr. Hemmert stated that he did not know whether the building sustained
any damage during the 2020 earthquake, but he was not aware of the earthquake having a big
impact on the structure.

Commissioner Mills asked if the property owner was still open to gifting the property. Mr.
Hemmert stated that the applicant is open to discussing anything, but they find it untenable to
remain in their current state of limbo.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Mike Young stated that the current condition of the Old Mill is ample evidence of the lack of
stewardship the owners have given their property over decades. In contrast, you can see superb
stewardship of virtually all of the 151 single-family homes adjacent to Big Cottonwood Canyon
Creek and the Old Mill. He and his wife have lived in their home 1,028 feet from the Old Mill for
30 years. Much of their life savings is invested there, and his son purchased a home down the
street four years ago, so it is personal to his family. Demolition of the Old Mill is an initial step
in the future development of the canyon. The current owner will be long gone, and the 151 single-
family home owners will have to live with the results for generations to come. The owners of the
Old Mill have not been held accountable in the past, and there was no reason to think that they
would exhibit accountable stewardship in the future. He does not believe they have the
community’s best interests at heart in any way. It is up to the Planning Department Staff, Planning
Commission, City Council, and Mayor Bennion to make sure that the one-of-a-kind area of
Cottonwood Heights is preserved, developed, and enhanced with serious consideration for safe
evacuation in the case of wildfire, protection of the creek and drinking water, and all the single-
family homes that complement the unique area of Cottonwood Heights.

Jim Kichas stated that he is a resident of District 3 and Chair of the Cottonwood Heights Historic
Committee. He then read a statement that was drafted by the Committee and shared with the
Mayor and City Council after meeting with the property owners in August 2024 and evaluating
public comments gathered through November of 2024.

“The Cottonwood Heights Old Mill holds a significant place in our City's history and enjoys
widespread recognition and affection from the community. However, its current state of disrepair
has led the property owners to propose its demolition and redevelopment. While the Historic
Committee acknowledges the concerns raised by the property owners regarding the building's
condition and restoration costs, we also recognize a strong public opposition to demolition and the
historic value of the structure.

The Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee recommends the following:

       1.      Prioritize preservation. The Historic Committee recommends that all efforts be
               made to preserve the Cottonwood Heights Old Mill. The City should explore
               available funding sources and partnership opportunities that could
               help facilitate the remediation and ongoing maintenance of this beloved landmark.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                         13
       2.      Reject expedited demolition. We strongly recommend rejecting any proposals that
               would allow for an expedited demolition process. The building's long history of
               neglect necessitates careful consideration of all preservation and documentation
               options before any irreversible action is taken.

       3.      Enforcement of existing ordinances.           The Committee urges a thorough
               investigation into why the existing City Ordinance 19.86.045 regarding the
               protection and upkeep of the Old Mill has not been consistently enforced.
               Addressing this issue will be crucial in preventing similar situations in the
               future. Preservation of the Old Mill should be the highest priority at this moment
               when the structure still has a chance to be saved.

In the event that it is determined that the Old Mill will be demolished, the Historic Committee
recommends the following:

       1.      Comprehensive documentation. If demolition becomes unavoidable, the Historic
               Committee recommends that a thorough videographic record of the building's
               interior and exterior be created. The record should become the property of the City
               and be included in the City's digital archives to preserve the mill's memory for
               future generations.

       2.      A meaningful memorial. In the event of demolition, we recommend that a
               memorial be established that is accessible to all residents of Cottonwood Heights.
               The memorial should appropriately honor the mill's historic significance, and a
               clear plan for its ongoing care and upkeep should be established.

Opportunities like this provide us a rare moment to reflect on our community values and links in
the chain that we want to leave behind. Ensuring that this chain remains unbroken for future
residents of Cottonwood Heights is something in which every citizen, elected official, committee,
and commission has a part to play.

Anthony Ithurralde stated that he is a resident of Sundown Avenue. He believes the City should
find a way to save one of the oldest historic properties in the area. Areas of the City that were
inspired by and named after the Old Mill include the Old Mill Golf Course, Old Mill Village, Old
Mill Campus, Old Mill Park, Old Mill Corporate Center, Old Mill Circle, Old Mill Office, Old
Mill Estates, Old Mill Medical Office, and Old Mill Point. If European cities found a way to
restore castles and churches that were bombed out during World War II, Cottonwood Heights can
restore a mill from the 1800s.

Shawna Bland is a resident of Old Mill Estates. She had trouble listening to how the owners are
sad that the building is now dilapidated when they did not do anything to take care of it. It was
discouraging to look at pictures of how beautiful it once was. She drives past the property every
day. The owners recently erected a fence and security cameras, but for years they let it become
dilapidated and covered in graffiti. She believes that was done intentionally to provide justification
for tearing it down to build townhomes and condominiums. The road will not handle so many
homes, and she is concerned about being able to evacuate in the event of a fire. She does not



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          14
believe it is fair that residents will be forced to live with the consequences of the property owner’s
actions. The state of the Old Mill is a tragedy, but it is the owner's fault.

Alan Brown stated that he can see the Old Mill from his house. The owner of the historical paper
mill known as the Old Mill requested to demolish it and build high-density homes was a very
sad day for the City. They showed blatant disregard for a 143-year-old building that has gone
through fire and rebuilds throughout its life, but still stands even after an earthquake. Cottonwood
Heights shows love for its history with markers throughout the City, but the Old Mill is the only
historical structure that is still standing. The city book has a photo of has the Old Mill, and there
is one on the wall. It means something to the City.

The property owner wants to destroy the Old Mill to build high-density housing, but Mr. Brown
believes it should be open space so that everybody can enjoy it. The area does not have the
capability to handle the traffic. During ski season, residents cannot get out of their subdivisions.
The area should only have single-family homes. He believes the City should do more research
and save the building. The Shelbys have disregarded it for years. He moved to Cottonwood
Heights when it was first incorporated in 2005, and nothing has been done to the building since
that time. In the past year, the owner installed cameras and painted over the graffiti, but only
because he wants to demolish a mill that was built with discarded granite from the Salt Lake City
Temple. It frustrates him to hear the property owner say that he has done something, because he
has not done anything for 20 years. Mr. Brown asked the Planning Commission to look at better
options for the historical site and not approve a permit to destroy the building.

Robyn Taylor-Granda spoke on behalf of Preservation Utah, a nonprofit organization that serves
all of Utah. She has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights for over 20 years. The City’s
preservation ordinance states: This chapter is enacted to preserve sites, structures, landmarks, and
buildings with special historical, architectural, and aesthetic value, which are unique and
irreplaceable assets. The City only has two irreplaceable assets, and demolition of the Old Mill
would mean losing 50% of them. She was pleased to hear that the Planning Commission shared
that concern. A combination of the City's lack of enforcement of its own code and the owner's
lack of maintenance on the building led to the possibility that the entire building could be
demolished.

Ms. Taylor-Granda evaluates and advocates for historic buildings for a living. She has seen an
owner try to tear down a building on Easter Sunday at 8:00 a.m., when they think no one is
watching. When she brought that up to the City Council, a Council member told her that she was
being hyperbolic, but property owners engage in demolition by neglect all over the country.
Delaying maintenance so they can eventually claim hardship is a very well-known strategy, and
she believes that is what had happened with the Old Mill. The owner's lawyer said that they have
done virtually no maintenance since 1984, which is an admission to demolition by neglect. It is
alarming that they knew there were structural problems after a flood, and all they did was
have engineers evaluate it, but they took no action on it. For the City to say that they may or may
not have ever cited the property for code violations was also alarming and a major failure on the
part of Cottonwood Heights City. She oversees a protective easement program for 130 buildings
across the state, but no one in Cottonwood Heights was tasked with oversight on its two historic
structures.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          15
She hoped that the City would take responsibility for their role in neglecting to ensure that
maintenance was being done, and that they not allow the owner to get away with it. No building
is maintenance free, and the owner absolutely neglected that responsibility. They knew year after
year that the building was deficient structurally but could not prove that they did anything other
than tuckpoint every once in a while, and that is neglectful.

Eva Chan stated that she is a new City resident. She believes the owner of the building is clearly
at fault for not maintaining it. She moved from New York City, where she lived among 100- and
200-year-old brownstones, none of which was falling down. The owner stated that the cost
to maintain the building is $100 million, but she believes that may be overstated. They talked
about how the building needs to be restored to be compliant with code, but there are many
examples of historical buildings being partially preserved. The Opera House in San Francisco and
Domino's Sugar factory in New York are examples where certain walls were preserved and luxury
buildings built around them. Demolition of the Old Mill would also have a lot of externalities and
cost the City much more than just the loss of a building. Also, there is an effort to build a tourist
industry in Cottonwood Heights. Park City would look completely different without its Main
Street area. She believes the historical site needs to be preserved for people to see part of the City’s
history. When historical buildings like this were preserved in New York City, surrounding real
estate values increased dramatically. The economic impacts of losing the Old Mill need to be
considered as well.

Jeff Chapman stated that there were two parts to the approval, and the City Council’s part of the
process was to understand that the request is not appropriate. The Walker family took possession
of the property in 1927. The original owner was the Deseret News. The family has had the means
to take care of the property. He also believes that the neglect was intentional and geared toward
future development. The City allowed the property to deteriorate and be abandoned. The
requested density would overwhelm the road, which already has significant traffic problems on ski
days. It is a terrible area for more density, construction debris, housing, and traffic. Fire trucks
will not be able to get through on ski days, and there will not be appropriate services for so many
residents. He believes that the City condemned the property in 2005. We need to be better
stewards of our land, and a lot of development in Cottonwood Heights has slipped through the
cracks. He has lived on Racquet Club Circle for 18 years and has witnessed a terrible zoning
decisions that will result in 140 apartments. The family has had the means and wherewithal to
take care of the property, but they have not.

Deborah Bush stated that she walks by the Old Mill almost every day. She served on the
committee for restoring the historic mill. In 2019, plans were in place for the Cottonwood Heights
Community Center for the Arts, complete with architectural renderings and site development
plans. Multiple professionals in the community were on board to donate time and materials.
Hundreds of emails were sent. Dozens of meetings were held. An outstanding development
company had spent months assessing possibilities for the project. In 2019, a fair and reasonable
offer was presented to the owners. At first, they seemed very interested, but as time went on, there
were always new things that needed to be checked before they could accept the offer. In 2020, it
became more difficult due to COVID, but everyone was still hopeful. So many members of the
community anticipated a beautiful Cottonwood Heights Community Center for the Arts set along



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            16
the historic trail to the City's own Old Mill Park in beautiful Cottonwood Creek Canyon. Dedicated
citizens' expertise had gone into the plans to convert the Old Mill to a wonderful asset for
Cottonwood Heights. Mayor Peterson and his City Council were optimistic and excited about the
project. Everyone was waiting for a simple yes or no answer from the property owners, but the
reply never came. By 2022, it became obvious that other plans were being made for the Old Mill
and its surrounding acreage. Five years later, the building has fallen into disrepair.

Ms. Bush shared a text from a fellow committee member: “It's devastating to think that the Old
Mill may now be demolished. We brought the best offer, the best team, the best plans, and they
would never move forward.” According to City Code, the building has to be unusable and
unsellable, and she believes everyone can see that the building was sellable.

Diane McQuay stated that she has lived on McIntosh Lane overlooking the Old Mill for 38 years.
She hopes that the building can be preserved, but she is concerned about wildfires in the canyon.
She grew up in Pacific Palisades, which is now gone due to wildfires. Its topography is similar to
Cottonwood Heights and Sandy. They never thought a fire like that could happen, and it could
happen here as well. In one area of Pacific Palisades, traffic came to a standstill and people had
to exit their cars and run for their lives. The cars prevented fire trucks from getting through. She
hopes that the building can be saved, but it is important to consider what will happen in areas with
only one way in and out if there is a fire.

Brad Dickter stated that he is a resident of District 3 and is a proud supporter of responsible
development in his backyard, specifically development that includes affordable, high-density
housing paired with strong transit options and walkable neighborhoods. This is not that. This is
a developer and property owner who has a number that they are willing to spend to maximize their
profit at an immeasurable cost to Cottonwood Heights. The financial incentives driving this
decision are clear. The developer stands to gain from tearing down an iconic structure, while we,
the community, stand to lose the priceless heart of our community. It is not about necessity. This
is a business decision for one private property owner. Every day, he gets to enjoy the Old Mill
when he drives, bikes, or runs by it. At the City Council work session, Commissioner Steinman
spoke about the benefits of micro communities and alternative transit solutions, and the proposal
was the opposite of those plans. Tearing it down would be a step backward. The applicant’s
justification for demolition gave three reasons: reconstruction costs, comparative precedent, and
cost-effective alternative. The comparative precedents the applicant submitted were all restored,
and the reconstruction costs and most cost-effective alternative are simply a subjective choice by
the applicant. He is a YIMBY who says, “Yes in my backyard.” The Hillside Plaza
development be in his backyard, and he supports that type of development. This is not that. He
asked that the Planning Commission oppose this and any demolition that is not absolutely
necessary to enrich the community of Cottonwood Heights, rather than a private businessman.

Ronnie Pessetto spoke on behalf of Seven Canyons Trust, a local nonprofit focused on restoring
and protecting the creeks of the Salt Lake Valley, including Big Cottonwood Creek. The site is an
opportunity for how development interacts with an adjacent creek. Seven Canyons Trust is not
completely opposed to change. However, demolition along the creek corridor is not a neutral
action. It often initiates grading, vegetation removal, and changes to bank stability that can
permanently affect water quality, temperature, erosion, and habitat. Big Cottonwood Creek is



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                        17
already under stress as it provides water for a large majority of people in the Salt Lake Valley
every single day. Without clear conditions, demolition and development can unintentionally
accelerate that degradation and impact the Great Salt Lake because it is a tributary to the Great
Salt Lake. They respectfully asked that any decision include enforceable riparian protections such
as adequate setbacks, demolition, runoff protections, and designs that preserve the creek's
ecological function and greater community connectivity.

Ms. Pessetto pointed out that the mill exists where it does because of the creek. The building, the
City, and the waterway have a shared history, and the decisions made here will shape how residents
experience this place for decades to come. This was a moment to not just replace the structure,
but to get a higher standard, one that allows growth while honoring the creek as a living
infrastructure. Seven Canyons Trust urged the Commission to guide this project toward
smart, riparian-friendly development that protects Big Cottonwood Creek. All the values and
interests that had been presented can be honored and coexist. They are working with Salt Lake
City on the ballpark building, where creek restoration, building restoration, and economic
development exist. It can happen, and they would like to help.

Casey Sullivan stated that he is a masonry restoration contractor who has been interested in the
beautiful building for many years. He had been hopeful that someone might call his firm for a
quote. He has doubts about the building not having a foundation, as he is confident that it is built
on a stone foundation. He also questioned the reconstruction estimates. From what he has seen
from outside the fence, the walls do need repairs, but are not in horrible condition. There could be
adaptive ways to save some of them. The cover of Masonry Magazine shows an old coal
generation site in London that suffered through many decades of deferred maintenance, and that
building was repurposed. There is an opportunity to preserve something that cannot be
reproduced. Blood, sweat, and tears went into building the mill, and bulldozing it would be a
travesty. He believes it will be blood on Cottonwood Heights’ hands if they allow it to happen.
He is willing to donate his time to provide a budget to the City and the building owner for the
masonry restoration. He has worked on older buildings of this size and larger. He is also willing
to donate money to save this treasure.

Nancy Hardy stated that she moved to Cottonwood Heights from London in 2009, and the Old
Mill stood out to her. It is phenomenal to have that old building right in their backyards. Protective
maintenance could have been happening over all the years talking about the mill, and it could start
now. The CUP project will be discussed by the Planning Commission for a year before it goes to
the City Council, and right now is the time to start enforcing the protective maintenance
requirement. The gentleman before her is a good example. Many others have talked about the
Old Mill, and there are people who may love to turn it into something. She has previously
suggested the Eccles Foundation and Huntsman Foundation, and Post Malone lives in the area.
Somebody might want to turn it into a nice restaurant with a private event place upstairs. She has
made those suggestions repeatedly, but she does not know if anybody reached out to them or tried
to find a buyer. She understands that the City probably cannot buy it, but GoFundMe may be an
option to save the Old Mill.

Kevin Witzman stated that he grew up in Indiana. He moved to Cottonwood Heights in 2003 and
fell in love with the Old Mill. He owns a house, land, and business in the City. He would not



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          18
mind funding an independent engineering assessment. He does not know anything about the
owner, but if he wanted something to fall into this state, he would do exactly what they did. He
walks and drives past the property almost every day and has never seen maintenance being done.
If the owner has records of maintenance, they should show them. He implored the City to not
destroy the building but to instead look at ways to save it. He believes it can be saved without
spending $100 million. If the City and property owner approve, he will bring in an independent
engineer to assess the building. He is willing to pay for Mr. Sullivan to survey the building as
well. He wants to find opportunities to save the Old Mill.

Robert Jones gave his address as 3221 East Vista Grande Circle in Old Mill Estates, where he has
lived for 26 years. He grew up on the west side of the Salt Lake Valley, and everyone there knew
about the Old Mill. His grandparents, parents, and children all visited the mill. Craig Wirth did a
story about the Old Mill on Channel 4, where he talked about the site from its beginnings to the
current day. It was very vibrant, and a lot of events were held there. The Old Mill has been popular
for a long time. It is a shame that it was allowed to degrade, and he thinks there is a chance to save
it. The applicant described how the Old Mill had to be torn down, and three or four months ago
they discussed traffic on the highway. He asked how it was measured and was told that they
looked at the whole road and bridge. He asked if they had looked at the intersections because that
is where the congestion will be, and they said no.

Alan Fletcher stated that he is a resident of Old Mill Estates. They had heard a lot about
stewardship and responsibility. He has known Doug Shelby for a long time and considers him a
friend. He sometimes feels sorry for Mr. Shelby because he is trying to balance a lot of competing
interests. However, whether the family planned it or not, several years ago, they ended up with a
building on the historical register, which carries a responsibility for stewardship. Approximately
35 years ago, he purchased a lot in an HOA. By purchasing it, he agreed to follow the HOA’s
rules about what the house would look like and what he could or could not plant. Over the years,
it had served him well because the rules helped preserve the area. He appreciated Mr. Hemmert’s
explanation about what had happened with the Old Mill over the last 40 years, but as he talked
about the events and movies and other things that had happened, he did not say anything about
stewardship or the responsibility of maintaining the Old Mill. It just kind of sat there. If he had
let his home sit there for 35 years without maintenance and never put money back into it, it would
probably look pretty bad now, too.

John Coburn stated that he grew up in the area during the 1960s and 1970s, and he remembers the
Old Mill being a wonderful place. He moved to the East Coast for a job, and he knows what it
is like to live in suburbia with only houses and developments. It tends to diminish the value of a
community when that is all you have. The Old Mill is a historic building that enriches the
community. It has not been improved, but the potential is there. He thinks Cottonwood Heights
would benefit tremendously if they found benefactors willing to step up and refurbish the Old Mill.
He does not think it is a historic landmark that the City wants to lose because its loss will detract
from the community. Trolley Square is a structure that Salt Lake City chose to refurbish rather
than destroy. They turned it into a flourishing business opportunity in their downtown area.
Cottonwood Heights has the opportunity to restore the Old Mill and turn it into a beautiful
landmark with shops, restaurants, and maybe even a small concert area. It is very enriching to
have historic landmarks in the community, and it would be sad to lose that. The last thing the City



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          19
needs is another high-rise or more condominiums. It needs enriching structures that increase the
value and quality of life. He asked the Planning Commission to not let the historic Old Mill be
destroyed.

Matt Disney stated that he lives in Old Mill Estates. The City has ordinances for a reason, and this
is clearly a self-created hardship. He was born in 1984, and he is not young anymore. If he
defers maintenance for 41 years, the inevitable will happen. He does not doubt that there are
expenses, but what had been presented were issues of convenience. Rice-Eccles Stadium cost $80
million. He has a hard time believing that it is not opportunistic to state that it will cost
$100 million to renovate or partially renovate the Old Mill, considering the size, scale, and scope
of that project. There are very few historical structures left to preserve in Cottonwood Heights,
and he believes it is everyone’s stewardship to take that seriously before it is too late.

Sarah Gibson stated that she is originally from North Carolina but grew up in Cottonwood Heights.
As a child, she was not a fan of Utah. She moved from an area with lush forests and historic
buildings to a desert and cookie-cutter developments. The first time she saw the Old Mill as a
child, it had the same impact on her as the historic colonial and Civil War buildings on the East
Coast. Set against the mountains, it helped her fall in love with Utah. Over 20 years later, there
is nowhere else she would rather be. She has watched the area change over those decades. Where
there used to be fields, there are townhomes. The idea of this beautiful, irreplaceable mill being
replaced by yet another generic, low-quality development is heartbreaking. Utah residents are
constantly told that profit is a bigger priority than clean air and water, the preservation of the Great
Salt Lake, public lands, and the biodiversity and structural integrity of Little Cottonwood Canyon.
She believes the City has the opportunity to tell the public that they matter, and their history
matters.

Brendan O'Leary stated that he is not a Cottonwood Heights resident, but he went to high school
in the City. There is a dire shortage of buildings that bring a sense of community and identity like
the Old Mill. An earlier comment mentioned how many things are named after it. It is clear that
the mill is an essential part of the community’s identity, and that should not be overlooked. They
were so close to turning the Old Mill into a community arts center, which would have been
wonderful because it would have both looked backward, preserving an incredible historical piece
of Cottonwood Heights’ identity, and provided a space to appreciate art, connect with each other,
and for younger people to invest in the community and explore and develop their own identities.
Losing something like that seems like a preventable outcome, which is an absolute shame. He
hopes another resolution can be reached.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Steinman reported that many online comments had also been received. He thanked everyone
who commented for their passion, experience, and contribution to the community. The Old Mill
is a building that everyone in the community has enjoyed and holds dear.

The Planning Commission has one year to go through the process. He asked that the applicant
spend that year looking at other options for the property. He understands that it is a difficult




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                            20
situation. However, many of the comments they heard were about stewardship and investment,
and stewardship from a community standpoint is a very important component.

CHMC §19.86.045, Protective Maintenance Required, states:

In addition to the requirements of the applicable building code, the owner of any Historic Site
shall maintain and repair the Historic Site in accordance with this section. An Historic Site shall
not be destroyed by neglect of any structure that has or is incurring permanent damage, by
weather, or by vandalism.

The owner shall maintain and repair the Historic Site to the extent that in the opinion of the City
is sufficient to prevent damage to the structural components or the exterior of the structure, or to
prevent the collapse of the structure, or to prevent the structure from becoming so deteriorated as
to render impossible its repair and preservation.

The City can investigate the condition of any Historic Site. Upon finding that the Historic Site is
dilapidated or deteriorating, the City shall notify the property owner by certified letter of the
failure of meeting City codes and standards. The City shall identify specific repairs and any work
necessary to comply with the conditions and requirements approved by the City. The owner shall
have 120 days from written notification to complete necessary repairs and improvements that were
approved by the City. All effort to work with the proper owner will be expended before written
notification is mailed to the property owner. Failure to complete the necessary repairs and work
within 120 days shall constitute a violation of this chapter.

Chair Steinman reported that the Planning Commission identified 10 items for Planning
Department staff to focus on. It is apparent the structure has been neglected over the last 41 years.
The Commission is looking at the past, but also to the future, and it has one year to determine what
happens next. There are a lot of great minds, deep pocketbooks, passion, and the possibility of
obtaining grants. He believes there is an opportunity to preserve the site and potentially make it
better than anyone has imagined. Protective maintenance was required, and the Planning
Commission agreed that the requirement was not met. The City Council must issue a Certificate
of Appropriateness as well. The City can be proactive over the next year by holdings meetings
and public forums and pursuing fundraising efforts.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Spung to review the items that Staff had been tasked with researching.
Mr. Spung clarified that the information will be provided by the applicant and Staff will relay it to
the Commission. He would be coordinating with the applicant on the following items:

   •   How do the national and state historic designations affect the City’s review and decisions?
   •   Provide more seismic information, including fault lines and locations, as that may be
       helpful to inform a decision.
   •   When was the structure condemned and why? Are there supporting documents?
   •   What has the City done to enforce Historic Preservation standards?
   •   Is there any City liability in regard to approval or disapproval?
   •   Provide more history on the structure and differences in the City and County Codes.
   •   Detail the specific process by which a Historic Structure is designated in the City.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                         21
   •   What is the history of maintenance for the structure?
   •   Provide a history of due diligence efforts to preserve the structure.
   •   Research when the maintenance clause was added to City Code.

Commissioner Anderson stated that there are still a lot of unknowns and information that needs to
be gathered. She recommended that the matter be a standing agenda item so questions can be
discussed as they arise. Commissioner Lugo agreed and remarked that there had been a lot of
discussion about the actual renovation costs. He believes it is important to understand the actual
cost, as he had heard amounts between $20 million and $100 million. Commissioner Anderson
remarked that the Planning Commission should be mindful of the scope of what is being evaluated
and ensure that they are doing it appropriately.

Commissioner Mills commended members of the public for the way they conducted themselves
and the improved communication. All three previous Mayors had courted large donors to restore
the Old Mill, but their efforts were unsuccessful. He strongly encouraged anyone who can get the
right people in the room to do so, as that is not within the Planning Commission’s purview. He
encouraged everyone who was involved with the 2019 opportunity to reconvene and connect with
those who offered resources. There may be an opportunity to reach a resolution on that proposal.

Commissioner Mills agreed with Commissioner Anderson regarding keeping the item on the
agenda. He believes there will be regular new pieces of information. Planning Department Staff
has done an enormous amount of work to get up to speed on an issue that others sat on for decades.
There is a desire on the part of the Planning Commission to retain institutional memory and ensure
best practices to benefit the future of Cottonwood Heights. That can be hard to see from the
audience, but they all have the desire to be happy about the City they live in. He heard things
during the public hearing that he was not aware of, and that level of public engagement has always
led Cottonwood Heights to make better decisions than many of its neighbors. Public engagement
matters. He is dismayed at what was allowed to happen, but the Planning Commission cannot
impose penalties related to those missteps. He believes there may be pathways that provide the
best possible outcome for both the property and the Shelbys.

Commissioner Mills stated that he had no other questions to add to the list and was hopeful that
the applicant would provide timely responses to the existing questions. He asked Staff to track the
timeliness of the responses because there had been delays in the past, and that would be an
unacceptable outcome for this process.

Mr. Spung recommended that the item be included on work session agendas only as there may not
be substantive material to review in business meetings. The next meeting would be held on
February 4 and there likely was not enough time to obtain new information, so he suggested that
the item be placed on the March 4 agenda. Staff likely will not have answers to all the
Commission’s questions at that time, but they will be able to provide an update on the process.

Mr. Spung did not believe it would be appropriate to notice every meeting as a public hearing. All
meetings are public, but there is a significant cost to the City in both postage and Staff time in
mailing out notices for every meeting. At the March 4 meeting, the Planning Commission can
identify any specific dates that may like advertised as a public hearing. The current meeting


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       22
satisfied all City and State requirements so no additional public hearings were legally required.
However, he recommended that one be held at the meeting where a decision is made.

Chair Steinman stated that he does not believe it is necessary to hold another public hearing in the
interim and noted that public comments are welcomed at the beginning of every meeting.
Commissioner Shelton recommended reopening the item for written public comments so the
Commission can continue to review those comments throughout the year but agreed that additional
public hearings are not necessary.

Commissioner Mills remarked that there is a general public comment period at every Planning
Commission meeting, and all residents can speak for three meetings during that period. It was a
question of noticing. Mr. Topham agreed. A public hearing is different from a public comment
period. The public can provide public comment at any meeting, and people who are interested in
this topic can make public comment at any future meeting. He recommended that the Planning
Commission decide whether and when to have additional public hearings based on what happens
at future meetings.

Commissioner Smith reiterated his concerns about safety. He wanted to verify that the property
is secure so if someone climbs the fence, a brick will not fall on them. He does not know the best
way to determine that, but it is important to ensure that the property is safe and secure.
Commissioner Mills stated that cameras and a fence had been installed by Mr. Shelby, and
Cottonwood Heights police drive by regularly as well. Commissioner Smith stated that he has
heard that some teenagers still get in regardless of things like fences.

Mr. Spung stated that the property is private. The City has no responsibility or liability to maintain
it or prevent people from entering, and the Planning Commission should avoid any stipulations to
that effect. However, the owners are taking measures to secure the property and have minimized
trespassing.

Chair Steinman stated that multiple engineering studies were included in the Staff Report,
including some that were conducted by Salt Lake County. He asked if Mr. Spung was aware of
the County’s reason for conducting studies on the Old Mill for a private landowner. Mr. Spung
stated that he can research the matter and present his findings at a future meeting. Chair Steinman
requested an audit of the existing studies as a first step. The Planning Commission had discussed
a separate City survey, and it would worthwhile for a nonbiased third party to evaluate the site and
better understand why and when other third-party tests were conducted. Studies can take several
months, but the Planning Commission has one year, and it is important to understand what is
happening as well as the applicant’s liability. There are other concerns on the list, but from his
perspective that should be the top priority. An audit of any maintenance steps that had been taken
would also be helpful.

Mr. Spung stated that the City Council will discuss the possibility of conducting an independent
study. A budget adjustment will be required to approve that expense. Staff will brief the Council
on the application, and it will be addressed at that time. Chair Steinman remarked that some
members of the public had offered to contribute to the effort.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                          23
Commissioner Mills stated that the reference to Salt Lake County was actually a statement Mr.
Shelby had asked Mr. Erickson to submit. Mr. Erickson was the Salt Lake County Engineer and
Chief Building Officer at the time, but that does not necessarily imply that he was acting in an
official capacity. The letter did not appear to originate from Salt Lake County, but rather from an
individual that had interacted with Mr. Shelby.

Commissioner Smith moved CONTINUE Project CUP-25-005 to the March 4, 2026 Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of December 15, 2025, Planning Commission Minutes.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented. Commissioner
Smith seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Shelton moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 8:09 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                                       24
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, January 21, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/21/26                               25
                   MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                        PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                 Wednesday, February 4, 2026
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton
                       (via Zoom), Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner
                       Rusty Lugo-Alternate

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa

Public Present:        Stacey Khokhar

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.


1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda. There were two action items: Item 3.1,
Project CUP-26-002, and Item 3.2, Project SUB-26-001.

Planner I, Emma Glende, reported on Project CUP-26-002, an application for a Conditional Use
Permit (“CUP”) to operate Emissions Plus, a test-only vehicle emissions testing facility, at 1344
East Fort Union Boulevard. The property is located in the Regional Commercial (“CR”) Zone.
The business offers emissions testing and optional Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”)
renewal services. Customers remain in their vehicles throughout the process, and no vehicle repair
or maintenance was proposed. The business will operate Monday through Saturday, serving 20 to
40 vehicles per day, and have two employees. No site modifications were proposed beyond
removing the boards from the windows.

Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code §19.40.030.B allows motor vehicle service-related uses as a
conditional use in the CR Zone. The proposed emissions testing facility qualifies under this
category as it does not involve outdoor repair or storage, and an existing emissions testing facility
is located across the street within the same zoning district.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                          1
Ms. Glende reviewed the proposed traffic flow and parking diagrams indicating that all traffic will
remain within the property and not overflow into adjacent parking lots. In response to a question
raised by Commissioner Anderson, Ms. Glende verified that no changes were proposed to the
existing structure. Emissions testing will be conducted under the canopy. The area is not enclosed.
Commissioner Anderson expressed concern about potential pollution.

Chair Steinman asked about rights-of-way, as the Staff Report indicated use of the property to the
west. Ms. Glende reported that the proposed circulation is directly onto Fort Union Boulevard.
The applicant initially proposed using the adjacent parking lots for traffic flow, but the proposal
had been modified. The updated diagram had been inadvertently omitted from the Staff Report.
Chair Steinman asked how traffic would be prevented from flowing into the adjacent parking lot
through the existing curb cut. Ms. Glende reported that the applicant did not specifically address
that issue in the application, and nothing was proposed to block that entry.

Commissioner Barnes asked how traffic will access the second inspection bay. Commissioner
Poulson identified the access on the diagram.

Chair Steinman expressed concern about left-hand turns out of the property through the western
entrance. The property has been vacant for quite some time, and additional traffic could pose a
safety risk. Appropriate signage should be required at the entrance. In response to his question,
Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported there may be an existing
cross-access easement for the western property.

The Commissioners discussed access to the property and the increased traffic volume since it was
a gas station. Commissioner Mills stated that the City should take advantage of the fact that the
request is an improvement to the property and prohibit left turn exits. Commissioner Lugo
remarked that left turns from the second bay could also be problematic. Commissioner Anderson
stated that the Commission may not be able to control exits from the property to the west, but it
could address access onto Fort Union Boulevard. Ms. Glende agreed and indicated that people
frequently make left-hand exits from the shopping center.

Commissioner Barnes asked how long emissions inspections last. Ms. Glende reported that the
applicant anticipates 20 to 40 cars per day. Commissioner Barnes stated that 40 cars in an eight-
hour day may require staging, which could create backups. It was noted that there are 11 parking
stalls on the property that can be used for staging.

Commissioner Mills asked about the procedure for mitigating potential issues with the
underground fuel tanks. Mr. Spung reported that the State has specific standards for underground
tanks, but the property is not being redeveloped. Commissioner Mills expressed concern about
the City’s responsibility to address the potential hazard. Chair Steinman stated that it would be
regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency and State of Utah. When a gas station closes,
there is a lockdown process that must be followed. A lender could potentially require an
environmental study, but that it not in the City’s purview. Commissioner Mills stated that it would
be reasonable to request that the property owner provide documentation that they followed
appropriate protocol. He asked how other cities address this issue.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                        2
Mr. Spung reported that if site features are not changed, no additional reviews are required. If they
were demolishing the building, remediation would be necessary. If the property owner had applied
to develop the property, the City would get involved. Commissioner Poulson asked if a certificate
of compliance would be required. Mr. Spung stated that he could ask the applicant for that
information, but approval could not be conditioned on it because it does not relate to the request.

In response to a question from Commissioner Barnes, it was clarified that the tenant had made the
application on behalf of the owner.

Commissioner Mills stated that he believes it is incumbent upon the City to address potential
hazards, and the question should be asked of the responsible party.

Chair Steinman asked if the City requires soil testing for any type of redevelopment. Mr. Spung
reported that it would be required if specified in the Building Code. Planner III, Maverick Yeh,
reported that it would only be required if the existing structure is demolished to verify that the soil
can support a new structure.

Ms. Glende reported that no public comments had been received on the application. Staff review
determined that the application is consistent with the purpose of the zone, which offers areas for
commercial uses that serve the community, region, and traveling public by accommodating larger-
scale, land-intensive commercial uses that are not well-suited for neighborhood locations. She
then reviewed the recommended Conditions of Approval outlined in the Staff Report.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Lugo, Ms. Glende stated that she did not know
the lease term. Commissioner Anderson remarked that there is already signage at the location.
Ms. Glende reported that she had contacted the applicant regarding the signage, and they indicated
that they would submit a building permit application that week.

Chair Steinman stated that because two different traffic circulation maps had been submitted, it
was important to consider how circulation will work and if the appropriate easements are in place.
Ms. Glende reported that Staff had not reviewed the easements, but the original circulation diagram
was mistakenly included in the Staff Report. Chair Steinman stated that access will have
implications across the developments, and he believes access from the property to the west should
be closed off with a barricade. Commissioner Anderson remarked that the Fire Department would
need to be involved in that decision.

Mr. Spung stated that there may already be an access agreement between the properties. When
the initial diagram was submitted, Ms. Glende asked for that documentation, and in response, they
submitted the revised Site Plan. If the application is approved based on the second Site Plan, if
their customers are found to be trespassing on another property, that will not be in compliance with
the approved permit. He did not believe a physical barrier was necessary.

The traffic circulation diagram was reviewed, and the Commission discussed different area
businesses. It was noted that the eastern entrance is often used to access the adjacent shopping
area. Chair Steinman stated that if traffic circulates around the building, it would be worthwhile
to discuss closing off that access. Mr. Spung indicated that the use would have fewer vehicle trips



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                            3
than a gas station, and he did not believe it would be justified to close off an existing access. The
property owner may also have a legal right to that access. Commissioner Mills remarked that 40
trips a day is significantly less than the postal store, and an argument could be made for maintaining
the status quo.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Poulson, Ms. Glende confirmed that adjacent
property owners received notice of the application and no comments were received.
Commissioner Poulson stated that if he was an owner or tenant in the adjacent strip mall, he would
have said something, and the access has been there since the property was a gas station.
Commissioner Lugo noted that it will draw more business to the location.

Chair Steinman stated that it is a relatively difficult corner, and he believes it is important to push
the traffic flow to the east. Commissioner Anderson stated that right-turn only signs could
encourage safer behavior, but it needs to be made clear that the signage is for the emissions facility
only. Commissioner Lugo remarked that someone turning right and then doing a U-turn could
also be a safety concern. Mr. Spung stated that he will speak with the Engineering Department to
determine if they have any concerns.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Spung clarified that the application is for
a change of use, not redevelopment. Commissioner Mills read from the State regulations on
redeveloping former gas stations and reiterated that he would like the property owner to produce
a certificate verifying that they have taken the necessary steps. Commissioner Anderson asked if
those steps would be required as the property is not being redeveloped. Mr. Spung stated that Staff
will follow up with the State and Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) to verify the property’s status.

Planner III, Sheldon Howa reported on Project SUB-26-001, a plat amendment to the Canyon
Centre Condominiums #1 Plat. The property is located at 7367 East Canyon Centre Parkway, is
zoned Mixed-Use (“MU”), and is in the Gateway Overlay District. It is part of the Canyon Centre
master development, which includes both commercial and residential uses.

The Canyon Centre Master Development Plan was approved in 2014. As part of that approval,
Lot 1 was dedicated to the City for the future Park Plaza. In October 2024, the Master Plan was
amended to remove the entitlement for 56,000 square feet of office space and entitle a 36-unit
condominium building in its place. That amendment specified a completion date of December 31,
2028.

Public notice of the proposed amendment was mailed to 144 property owners on January 23, 2026,
and no comments or concerns were received.

The applicant requested to amend Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 Plat
to include 36 residential condominium units, and to establish easements and maintenance
agreements across Lot 1 and Lot 2 of the development to provide maintenance agreements for
encroachments and parking and pedestrian access. Staff review determined that residential
condominiums are permitted in the MU Zone and are consistent with the previously approved
Master Development Plan amendment.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                            4
In response to a question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Howa reported that the original approved plat
was included as Attachment C in the Meeting Packet. Mr. Spung reported that the footprint would
not change. Rather than having one parcel for the office tower, there would now be 36 individual
parcels for the condominiums.

Chair Steinman asked if any adjustments to parking were proposed. Commissioner Mills remarked
that there appeared to be additional parking stalls as shown in pink on the easements and
encroachments diagram. Mr. Howa clarified that the parking stalls shown in pink and a portion of
the stalls shown in green will be on Lot 1. The drive aisle will be approximately 40 feet wide,
which is consistent with the approved parking agreement. Commissioner Mills stated that at least
five different taxing entities were involved in approval of the park, and the proposal would turn it
into a park strip. He is very concerned that it had apparently been decided that the large parking
garage would not provide enough parking. The original and proposed amended plats were
reviewed. It was clarified that parking would be added to the turnabout, and UFA had approved
the plan.

Commissioner Mills anticipated a lot of public comment because the project has changed over
time. The selling point to the public was that there would be a public amenity, but the park
continues to shrink. He believes it would be better if people who live in the condominiums could
walk directly into the public park, especially because there will already be underground parking
for residents and guests. Chair Steinman stated that it had been clarified that no encroachment into
the public space was proposed. The amendment would simply clarify where the already approved
parking will be. Mr. Howa reported that City Attorney, Shane Topham, has reviewed the
amendment against the approved parking agreement and original plat, and the proposed parking
area was consistent with both documents.

Commissioner Mills stated that the superficial parking made sense for an office building, but not
for 36 high-end residential condominiums beside a parking garage that is primarily empty. As the
City helps the applicant morph the project into something that is more financially viable for them,
he believes they should also be able to suggest ways to improve the property for the public as well.
Chair Steinman agreed with Commissioner Mills that no encroachment into the public amenity
should be approved. However, he believes that the parking will be utilized during busy periods.
He also does not believe the parking garage is open to the public yet.

Mr. Howa stated that the stalls highlighted in pink on the diagram are reserved for Unit 2B, which
is the hotel. Stalls in green are for public access. No changes from the original parking agreement
had been proposed, and no additional property would be encumbered.

Commissioner Poulson stated that in discussions regarding the office building, the property owner
had been given incentives in exchange for dedicated public stalls in the parking structure. He
believes that ratio should change because condominiums do not need as many parking stalls as
businesses. Surface stalls would be convenient for hotel guests, but they already have dedicated
stalls in the parking garage, so he did not understand why the surface stalls were necessary. Mr.
Howa stated that the original agreement requires public parking in the parking structure. There
was a reduced need for structured parking for the condominiums, and that was part of ongoing
discussions with the applicant.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         5
Chair Steinman stated that he believes the allocation was increased by approximately 5% to 55 or
60 and asked Mr. Howa to confirm the number prior to the Business Meeting. Mr. Spung clarified
that the agenda item would not change anything that was already approved through the
Development Agreement and parking agreement. The application was to change the footprint to
36 units. Any other changes would have to go back to the CDRA Board, City Council, and
Planning Commission, and the applicant intended to honor all current agreements.

Commissioner Shelton stated that one major difference is that the business use provided much
more public parking on weekends and evenings when the businesses were closed. The change of
use from office to residential means that more parking will be needed during those hours. He
asked if stalls would be dedicated to each individual condominium plat. Mr. Spung clarified that
no changes were proposed to parking designations. The parking agreement designates stalls for
condominium use, but the plat amendment would not assign parking stall ownership to individual
condominium plats. That will be handled through the condominium association. Commissioner
Shelton stated that daytime use will likely decrease considerably, which is of no benefit to the
public, but he understood that that was not the question before the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Poulson asked how many total parking stalls are available and how many were
assigned to the businesses and are now assigned to the condominiums. Additionally, he would
like to know how many public stalls will be available, on what floors, and how the park can be
accessed from them. Commissioner Anderson stated that the parking agreement was previously
approved, and the Planning Commission cannot make changes to it. They could ask questions,
but it was not up for discussion or review.

Commissioner Mills stated that to his recollection, they agreed to a standard number of stalls, and
the agreement had not been materially examined since the plat was modified. From an aesthetic
standpoint, he believes it will look much better if the condominiums fronts on a beautiful small
park instead of spiral, pie-shaped parking. He understands what has been entitled, but is troubled
that Marriott is insisting on surface parking when they already have underground parking.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Howa to display the original condominium plat and provide an overview
of the Development Agreement so the Commission could better assess the changes. However, he
understood that it may be out of their purview. The plat was reviewed, and Mr. Howa clarified
that the only amendments being requested were to condominiumize Unit 2B and add surface
parking in the turnaround. They were still working on maintenance agreements due to the
proximity of the condominium building to Lot 1. In response to a question, Mr. Howa reported
that the planter boxes and other items could not be placed on Lot 2B due to slopes and other issues.

The total number of parking stalls and how many were available to the public were discussed.
Mr. Howa reported that the parking agreement may be renegotiated to include additional public
parking in the structure. There are approximately 400 stalls in the three-story underground parking
structure. The surface stalls shown in red on the diagram had been designated for the hotel in the
parking agreement. The public stalls shown in green were not included on the original plat, but
they are in the public right-of-way.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         6
Mr. Howa reviewed the proposed easements for the following improvements:

      •   Ventilation shaft;
      •   Stair improvements;
      •   Planter box;
      •   Electrical junction boxes; and
      •   Pedestrian access.

Staff was in discussions with the applicant about reducing the encumbrance by relocating a
junction box. Rocky Mountain Power has placed constraints on the location, but the applicant is
willing to work with the City to find a better location that will not interfere with park amenities.

2.0       Use Table Update.

Chair Steinman reported that there would not be time to discuss the Use Table.

3.0       Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:01 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         7
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                 Wednesday, February 4, 2026
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton
                       (via Zoom), Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes, Commissioner
                       Rusty Lugo-Alternate

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner I, Emma Glende; Planner III, Sheldon
                       Howa

Public Present:        Bryan Isaac
                       Donald Ray
                       Rocco Vrba
                       Spencer Thomas

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 6:01 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

Chair Steinman opened the Public Comment period.

Chris McCandless stated that he had a family emergency and would need to leave, but he wanted
to address comments about the Canyon Centre project prior to doing so.

There were no further comments. The Public Comment period was closed.

Chair Steinman reported that per Mr. McCandless’ request, project SUB-26-001 would be heard
next.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                  8
3.0    Business Items

       3.1     Project CUP-26-002 – The Planning Commission will Review and
               Take Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit request by Dan Northrup
               to Operate an Emissions Testing Shop (Emissions Plus) at 1344 East Fort
               Union Boulevard.

Planner I, Emma Glende, presented the Staff Report and indicated that the request was for a
Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) to operate Emissions Plus, a test-only vehicle emissions testing
facility at 1344 East Fort Union Boulevard in the Regional Commercial (“CR”) Zone. The
business offers emissions testing and optional Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”) renewal
services. Customers remain in their vehicles throughout the process, and no vehicle repair or
maintenance was proposed. The business will operate Monday through Saturday, serving 20 to 40
vehicles per day, and have two employees. No site modifications were proposed beyond removing
the boards from the windows.

Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code §19.40.030.B allows motor vehicle service-related uses as a
conditional use in the CR Zone. The proposed emissions testing facility qualifies under this
category as it does not involve outdoor repair or storage, and an existing emissions testing facility
(Jiffy Lube) is located across the street within the same zoning district. Conditional uses are
governed by §19.84 and may be approved if potential impacts can be mitigated through conditions.

Ms. Glende reviewed the proposed traffic flow and parking diagrams, indicating that all traffic
will remain within the property and not overflow into adjacent parking lots. No public comments
were received in regard to the application.

Staff determined that the conditions proposed by the application were consistent with the purpose
of the CR Zone. As such, approval was recommended subject to the following Conditions of
Approval:

       1.      The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business
               license for the duration of the operations.

       2.      All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing property.
               The business shall not rely on on-street parking or adjacent off-property parking
               lots.

       3.      The business shall be limited to emissions testing and DMV renewal, as stated in
               the application.

       4.      A Building Permit shall be obtained for any exterior signage and other alterations
               to the premises that normally require a building permit.

       5.      Any exterior signage and other exterior alterations will meet the guidelines outlined
               in the Gateway Overlay District (§19.49).



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                          9
       6.      Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon
               complaint or evidence of noncompliance with the Conditions of Approval or
               applicable City codes.

       7.      Any expansion or change in the scope of the business shall require additional City
               review and approval.

The applicant, Spencer Thomas, stated that Emissions Plus has been in business for 30 years and
this will be their 12th location. In response to a question from Commissioner Lugo, he stated that
their initial lease term was for one-and-a-half years, and they hope to purchase the property in the
future. The service has no environmental impacts. The test takes three to four minutes to complete.
The technician accesses the car’s OBD2 port and takes photographs, then submits them to the
County. Operating hours will be 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. on Saturday. They typically have more customers at the end of the month but usually
do not have more than two cars in line. However, he does not anticipate a line at the new location.

Commissioner Smith stated that the gas station had been closed for some time, but he suspected
that there would be less traffic to the emissions testing facility. Mr. Thomas stated that they
anticipate between 20 and 40 cars per day, and testing takes approximately five minutes per car.

Commissioner Anderson remarked that the Planning Commission had discussed the possibility of
requiring signage to discourage left turns across Fort Union Boulevard. Mr. Thomas stated that
he will comply with all City recommendations.

Commissioner Mills stated that he was excited to hear that the applicant was interested in
purchasing the property and asked if there were any concerns about the decommissioned gas
station. Mr. Thomas stated that they recently purchased similar properties in Murray and Sandy
and are aware of the process. They had not seen signs of negative environmental impacts at the
Cottonwood Heights location, but that would not impact their willingness to purchase the property.
They have removed underground fuel tanks from other properties, and they are willing to do what
is necessary to bring the property into compliance. Emissions Plus is the number one emissions
testing company in Utah.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Anderson recommended that a Condition of Approval be added to require a right-
turn-only sign. Commissioner Smith stated that it may affect all the other businesses in the area.
After discussion, it was decided that the condition be added to require a right-turn-only sign at the
Fort Union Boulevard exit.

Commissioner Mills moved APPROVE Project CUP-26-002 based on the Findings and
Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2026, as amended to require a
right-turn-only sign at the exit to Fort Union Boulevard. Commissioner Lugo seconded the
motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Commissioner



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         10
Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes; Commissioner Poulson; Commissioner Mills-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       3.2     Project SUB-26-001 – The Planning Commission will Hold a Public Hearing
               and Take Possible Action on a Subdivision Amendment Request by Chris
               Ensign of Encore Development for a 36-Unit Condo Building located at 7341
               South Canyon Centre Parkway.

Planner III, Sheldon Howa presented the Staff Report and indicated that the request was for a plat
amendment for the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 Plat. The subject property is
located at 7367 East Canyon Centre Parkway in the Canyon Centre Master Development, which
is zoned Mixed-Use (“MU”) and in the Gateway Overlay District.

The Canyon Centre Master Development Plan was approved in 2014. As part of that approval,
Lot 1 was dedicated to the City for the future Park Plaza. In October 2024, the Master Plan was
amended to remove the office entitlement for 56,000 square feet of office space and entitle a 36-
unit condominium building for completion by December 31, 2028.

Public notice of the proposed amendment was mailed to 144 property owners on January 23, 2026,
and no formal comments were received.

The applicant requested to amend Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums Amended #1 Plat
to formally plat 36 previously approved residential condominium units and establish easements
and maintenance agreements across Lot 1 and Lot 2 of the development to provide maintenance
agreements for encroachments, as well as parking and pedestrian access. Staff review determined
that the request is consistent with the MU Zone, which allows residential condominiums, and the
previously approved Master Development Plan amendment.

As part of the request, additional easements will be added to Lot 1 and Lot 2 to designate private
and public surface parking areas. Mr. Howa reviewed a parking diagram showing the parking stall
locations and indicated that it is consistent with the approved parking agreement.

Mr. Howa reported that, per the Development Agreement, Lot 1 would be dedicated to the City
for a future park. However, the proximity of the condominium building to the lot boundary would
require some improvements to be located on public property.

The following improvements would be located on Lot 1:

   •   Ventilation shaft;
   •   Stair improvements;
   •   Planter box;
   •   Electrical junction box; and
   •   Pedestrian access.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                      11
Maintenance agreements were in process to address these items and consolidate the improvements
to reduce the area of encumbrance, including potentially moving the junction box closer to the
planter box or in front of the building. Placing it on the applicant’s property would be most
beneficial to the City, as it would remove the potential impedance of pedestrian access and any
future park amenities.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Mr. Howa reported that the original approval
did not include a detailed drawing of this area. The transformer was originally proposed to be in
the surface parking area. The ventilation shaft will provide ventilation for the parking structure.
The planter was added by the developer to make the area more visually appealing. Easements
were also required to provide cross access between Lot 1 and Lot 2.

Mr. Howa reported that the amendment had been reviewed by City Attorney, Shane Topham, and
Architectural Review Commission Chair, Scott Peters.

Staff analysis determined the following:

     •   The Plat Amendment is consistent with the MU Zone and the Canyon Centre Development
         and Parking Agreement.
     •   The request implements previously approved entitlements and does not increase density or
         alter the approved site layout. Access, utility, and maintenance issues can be adequately
         addressed through Conditions of Approval.
     •   If the subdivision amendment is approved by the Planning Commission, the project will
         then go through a full technical review for final platting.

Based on the above, Staff recommended approval subject to the following conditions:

1.       Will-Serve Letters
         Prior to final plat submittal or recordation of the plat, the applicant shall provide will-serve
         letters from the applicable water and sewer service providers confirming capacity and
         service availability for the proposed residential condominium use.

2.       Easement, Access, and Maintenance Agreements
         Prior to recordation of the plat, all required access easements, parking agreements, and
         maintenance agreements including those necessary to ensure public pedestrian access
         across Lots 1 and 2, define public and private parking stalls, and establish ongoing
         maintenance responsibilities for improvements encroaching into City-owned property shall
         be drafted and approved by the City.

3.       Utility and Encroachment Coordination
         The final location and configuration of site improvements within the area intended for
         future Park Plaza development, including the electrical junction box and related
         infrastructure, shall be finalized in coordination with City staff and applicable utility
         providers to minimize encumbrances and maintain safe, unobstructed pedestrian access.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                             12
4.     Final Plat Review
       The project must comply with all review comments provided by staff during the technical
       review of the final plat, including all easement and maintenance agreements being noted
       on the plat in addition to separate instrument number(s), as recorded with the County
       Recorder’s Office.

5.     Final Plat Recordation
       As per 12.08.010, The final plat shall be recorded within one (1) year of the date of City
       approval. Failure to record the plat within this time frame shall render the approval null
       and void, unless a written request for an extension is submitted to and approved by the
       Planning Commission within the one-year period.

The applicant, Donald Ray from Concord Development, LLC, stated that they were seeking
approval so they can move forward with the project. They are working with Staff on the easement
and maintenance agreements.

Commissioner Mills stated that the new use would require fewer parking stalls and asked if the
applicant was flexible about the surface parking. He would like to see the frontage preserved, as
allowing it to abut on a public park would make it a unique space, and the proposed pie-shaped
parking was less than ideal. A number of taxing entities were involved in trying to preserve a
public amenity, but due to several factors, the park had been reduced in size. The Planning
Commission understands that the applicant has a right to do as proposed, but his request was that
they consider being flexible on this matter.

Mr. Ray stated that they were not seeking any parking modifications. They were trying to
accommodate easements to enable ingress and egress to underground parking. Mr. Mills clarified
that modifications were proposed, as parking spaces were specified in the amendment that were
not previously earmarked for that purpose. The parking spaces were initially calculated based on
the needs of an office building versus those of 36 condominiums. The last time the Planning
Commission considered the development, they wanted to ensure that there was enough dedicated
underground parking, and it was his hope that the applicant would be flexible in terms of whether
there is a real need for surface parking stalls at the front door when they have access to three levels
of underground parking.

Mr. Ray stated that 17 parking stalls were removed. The property owner had no concerns about
parking for tenants. It was possible that he would reconsider the surface parking, but Mr. Ray
would have to discuss that with him.

Commissioner Mills remarked that many decisions regarding the development predate the current
Planning Department staff, most of the City Council, and most of the Planning Commission. He
understands that Mr. McCandless had been involved since the beginning, and a lot of work had
been done, but there was more than adequate underground parking.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Community and Economic Development
Director, Jim Spung reported that the diagram on screen was from the approved parking agreement
and included all surface parking stalls.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                           13
Chair Steinman asked Commissioner Mills to explain his position that the public amenity had
shrunk. Commissioner Mills stated that the City road had to be moved, and the location of
structures differs from the original intent. The park had decreased in size since the original
drawings. If there is a chance to extend it, that will create a lot of goodwill. He understands that
the current configuration is entitled. However, if it were agreeable to the applicant, they could
work with Staff to improve the layout for mutual benefit.

Chair Steinman stated that, to his understanding, the proposed surface parking was approved as
part of the original Development Agreement. The spiral surface parking was approved with the
parking agreement, and there had been no shrinking of the public amenity. Commissioner Mills
disagreed and remarked that the road was moved for functional reasons such as fire access. It was
originally envisioned to be a larger park. No malintent was involved, but the public will be left
with something that is substantially different from the original proposals. Chair Steinman clarified
that there had been no changes since the Development Agreement was agreed upon by the City,
including during negotiations for Tax-Increment Financing (“TIF”). The public amenity had
remained consistent with what was agreed upon when the development was approved.

Commissioner Shelton disagreed with Chair Steinman’s position. There had been a significant
change to what was proposed at the time the TIF was done. However, the park is not much of a
public amenity, and there will be very little reason for the public to go there. If it were a good
public amenity, he would not argue to eliminate that parking. Commissioner Mills stated that he
was satisfied with the applicant’s answers.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Chris McCandless stated that some of the Planning Commission’s comments were taken into
consideration in the amendment to the parking plan. There are 432 stalls in the structured parking,
and approximately 580 total stalls in the project. The office building was granted four parking
stalls per 1,000 square feet, but then COVID decreased the need for office space. When the
building was converted to condominiums, the lowest parking level was redesignated as public
parking, which increased available public parking by 66%.

The 17 stalls on the cul-de-sac were included in the original agreement. An easement designates
part of the park property as both hotel parking and private parking for the office building. The
City Council raised the same concerns as the Planning Commission. At Staff’s recommendation,
they suggested that the office-designated surface spaces be changed to public parking. The
developer agreed to develop that parking. All 55 stalls on the third parking level were always
designated for private office or residential use. It is not shared parking. The condominium will
also have 25 stalls on the first level.

Chair Steinman stated that because Mr. McCandless was speaking on behalf of the HOA, he would
be granted an additional two minutes.

Mr. McCandless stated that the condominium has enough stalls without the public parking in the
cul-de-sac. The developer may be amenable to converting those stalls to private parking, but he



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                        14
does not believe it would be a good idea. The project was originally a $55 million development
with an office building, and a tax increment was created to help build the parking structure. That
money was a loan that must be paid back by the Canyon Centre; no one outside the subdivision
will pay for the tax increment. When the planned office building was changed to residential, every
taxing authority had to approve the amended plan. The School District backed out because it is
residential. It is now a $105 million project, so it will generate significantly more tax revenue for
the community. The HOA will likely never see any of the $2.1 million it had anticipated in tax
increment. It has not been a profitable project, but it will be a great development once completed.

Rocco Vrba gave his address as 7389 South Prospector Place, one street from the subject property.
He holds master’s degrees in mechanical engineering and business finance. He generally supports
the project as it will be nicer than an office complex. The design is very good quality, and the
building will be beautiful. However, he is concerned that rezoning the property to MU would open
the door for a height adjustment from 36 feet to 50 feet. The applicant could potentially place
office space on a lower floor, which would allow them to build higher. That would impact his
view of the valley below. It was not currently being proposed, but the zoning code would allow
the opportunity. He requested that the Planning Commission consider adding a Condition of
Approval restricting the applicant from amending the structure’s height.

Lesley Kovach stated that she has lived across the street from the property for 30 years. She has
heard Mr. McCandless talk about all the beautiful amenities he is going to offer the neighborhood,
but she currently looks at a crane. She asked the Planning Commission to reconsider the above-
ground parking. There are so many stalls underneath that were supposed to be used for ski parking,
but nobody can get across the street. She believes the existing parking should be utilized and the
public space expanded. They need to have more land available for water to sink into the Jordan
Valley Water Conservancy District recharge zone, not more asphalt. She understands that the
surface parking may have been on the original plan, but the park has been reduced, and the City
needs to do better. The new Mayor is interested in what the public is saying, and this is the first
time someone has wanted to listen to the public. She believes the above-ground parking should
be removed. She lives east of the property, and it is very difficult to get across Wasatch Boulevard.

Bryan Isaac stated that he has lived in Cottonwood Heights for a long time. He is a contractor and
developer, and he is concerned that the project is under construction and the nomenclature is being
changed. When the developer applied for the hotel, the meeting was standing room only because
it was filled with angry people fighting to keep the hotel to 35 feet. Generally, mixed-use
developments have a maximum height of 35 feet. However, specific planned unit development
(“PUD”) or mixed-use may allow heights of up to 50 feet if they meet specific criterion such as
including commercial office space on the first two stories and being located away from single-
family homes. He asked that the Planning Commission commit publicly that they will not allow
a height over 35 feet, because he did not want to be back in 60 days when the developer requests
to go to 50 feet.

He loves Cottonwood Heights and appreciates the Planning Commission’s integrity, but four years
ago residents fought with a developer who wanted to build a condominium. A Planning
Commissioner stated that the property was not zoned for duplexes, so the developer could not
build them. After the project was completed, he wrote to a realtor and asked if the property could



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         15
be used for an Airbnb. He was told that the basement is a self-sufficient lockout apartment, which
means it is a horizontal duplex rather than a vertical one. His street’s zoning prohibits PUDs, but
this will be the seventh one within a 200-yard radius of his house. He was concerned about the
building going higher than 35 feet because the crane is 40 feet higher than the structural steel and
it looks like the building will go up to 50 feet. He asked for a commitment that the building would
not be more than 35 feet tall.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Steinman asked for clarification on whether the public amenity space was smaller than
originally proposed. His understanding is that the Development Agreement and Subdivision Plat
were completed prior to a decision on TIF. He asked if there were any re-trades and indicated that
if so, that information should be considered with any requests for modifications. If the public
amenity is as originally proposed, that would lead to a different outcome.

Commissioner Shelton stated that he does not believe the City can get the original amenity space
back. The question was not before the Planning Commission, and it was not within their purview.
It is not one Development Agreement but rather a series of amendments to the Development
Agreement that repeatedly changed the economic, plat, and taxing ramifications. The
representatives of the people, the City Council acting as the CDRA, made those decisions, and the
Planning Commission cannot question them. Chair Steinman stated that conditions could be
imposed to allow for expansion of the public amenity. Commissioner Shelton disagreed, as the
question before the Commission was whether the property could be condominiumized. The City
Council approved a parking plan and Development Agreement, and the taxing entities agreed to
those documents; it is not the Planning Commission’s place to renegotiate those questions.

Commissioner Shelton believed the Commission has authority to make recommendations on the
utility and encroachment easements because they appear to change the public benefit by allowing
private amenities on public property. He recommended that the third Condition of Approval be
modified to require Planning Commission approval of the final utility and encroachment
easements. Because that involved public property, it should not be an administrative decision.

Commissioner Anderson agreed with Commissioner Shelton. Because the encroachment would
take space away from the public entity, she would feel more comfortable making a decision once
the locations are finalized. That and condominiumization were the only matters before the
Planning Commission.

Chair Steinman stated that it is a unique situation because changes had been made to the
Development Agreement, and now changes were being made to the subdivision. He asked about
the types of conditions that would be allowed for this item.

Mr. Spung stated that a plat is an administrative review. As long as it meets the standards outlined
in the code, there is no reason to deny the request. Title 12 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal
Code outlines the standards for Subdivision Plat amendments, and the six conditions recommended
by Staff were sufficient for the application. The CDRA Board and City Council have authority
over the Development Agreement. The question before the Planning Commission was changing



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                        16
the parcel that was designated for an office tower into 36 condominium units. Other than the
easements, nothing outside of the building footprint was up for discussion.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Spung to address the citizen concern about the potential increased
building height. Mr. Spung stated that the developer had already received a building permit to
construct the building. The Development Agreement would need to be amended to increase the
building height.

Commissioner Mills stated that the public sensitivity regarding height is because of changes made
to the building over time. The roof was initially going to have enclosed HVAC units, then it was
to become an outdoor living space, and then it became another floor. Mr. Spung reported that the
approved elevations were included in the Meeting Packet. Mr. Howa added that the building
cannot exceed the original approved height for the office building. The average height of the
structure cannot exceed 42 feet, but it will be approximately 50 feet high in some areas.
Commissioner Mills remarked that the maximum height for the North Gravel Pit property was
further defined because effective grade is flexible, and he wanted to ensure that the maximum
height is clearly defined. However, he was confident that Staff has done their homework and
appreciated that the matter had already been decided.

Mr. Spung reminded the Commission that the matter before them was subdividing the property so
that the condominium units can legally be sold.

Chair Steinman stated that the original zoning only allowed for 35 feet in height, but the building
will far exceed that. The upper roof is 58 feet tall, with a base elevation of 100 feet. In response
to a question from Commission Poulson, Mr. Howa clarified that the final structure will not be
taller than the existing hotel. Based on the Development Agreement, the maximum average height
is 42 feet. The Development Agreement supersedes the underlying zone.

Chair Steinman asked Mr. Spung to review the history and process for the Development
Agreement. His understanding was that the development was not allowed to move forward until
everything was clearly defined, but there had subsequently been adjustments to the agreement.

Mr. Spung reported that he was not present for most of the process and could not speak to those
details, but Staff reviewed all recent submittals against the most recent approval to ensure that it
meets that standard. As part of receiving public funding through the CDRA, the CDRA Board,
City Council, and Planning Commission were involved with every step. The applicant was not
requesting changes to anything that had been approved because those changes would have to go
back through that process, which can take several months. Changes require approval from several
taxing entities, a new Development Agreement, and associated public hearings and meetings. The
current request will honor everything that has been approved and also create the condominium
units.

Commissioner Anderson stated that she does not think the Planning Commission needed further
clarification, but they did need to know the final results of the utility and encroachment before she
would feel comfortable moving forward. Mr. Spung reported that the applicant was trying to meet
a strict financing deadline because they could not obtain a loan without plat approval to sell units.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                         17
He asked about the Planning Commission’s specific concerns regarding the easements and
indicated that Mr. Topham is working with the applicant’s attorney to draft easement language.

Commissioner Anderson stated that to best utilize the public land, they need the most available
land. If an electrical junction box is placed on Lot 1, it will take away public space. Mr. Spung
reported that the motion could include a condition that the utility box be located on private
property. Commissioner Anderson stated that she would be comfortable with that solution as it is
the only condition the Planning Commission can place on the approval.

Chair Steinman expressed concern that the requiring the junction box to be placed on private
property would be counter to the original agreement. Commissioner Shelton stated that all three
items (the ventilation, planter, and junction box) should be located on private property, not public
land deeded to the City.

Mr. Spung reported that the parking structure and ventilation shaft are existing on the site. In order
to access the building, the stairwell must encroach onto the public property. The developer
purchasing that small piece of land from the City was discussed, but that would trigger additional
requirements and be procedurally difficult. The simplest solution is to have an easement and
maintenance agreement providing the condominium with access but specifying that the City is not
responsibility for maintaining the stairs, landscaping, snow removal, etc. The junction box created
bigger questions as it may impact the usability of the area. The applicant suggested moving it onto
private property to eliminate it from the conversation, and he believed that was the best approach.
Mr. Topham had approved of an easement and maintenance agreement, and the CDRA would be
compensated for the proportional value of the easement.

Chair Steinman stated that the City needs to do as much as it can to get more public amenity space
by moving the junction box to private property. In response to his question, Mr. Spung clarified
that the stairs access a concrete plaza area. The easement area includes the proposed junction box,
planter box, and a sliver of land to access the stairway. It will still be public land but will allow
the private party to access the area. If the junction box is relocated, it will be placed in an area
near the side of the parking structure and screened with landscaping. In Staff’s opinion, the corner
is not functional from a park perspective.

In response to a question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Howa reported that the climbing wall was
proposed along the retaining wall at the side of the cul-de-sac. The plat was reviewed showing the
property line between Lot 1 and Lot 2, as well as the easement area. In response to a follow-up
question, Mr. Spung reported that concept plans had been created, but no decision had been made
about the public park. The park will be constructed and donated to the City, although he was
unsure whether that was the responsibility of the condominium developer or master developer.
Commissioner Mills stated that it will be the master developer’s responsibility.

Commissioner Mills referenced Condition of Approval 2, “including those necessary to ensure
public pedestrian access”, and stated that, as written, “necessary” would be defined by Staff. He
asked Mr. Spung to clarify that what Staff determines to be necessary will take into consideration
the information they had gleaned from the meeting. He was anxious not to slow the process more
than necessary, but it was important to understand the project’s history and the public’s



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                          18
expectations. He appreciated Chair Steinman’s consideration for his questions and was
comfortable with moving forward with the proposed modifications to Condition of Approval 3.

Chair Steinman stated that it is difficult to impose on a public amenity without knowing the
programming of that amenity. He believes that the privately owned structure should be removed
from the public amenity but otherwise agreed with Staff’s findings. Commissioner Anderson and
Commission Mills agreed.

A concept plan for the park amenity was reviewed. The southwest corner of the property was
always intended to be an entrance, but the balance of the property had not been designed. Mr.
Spung reported that Rocky Mountain Power has coordinated with the applicant and indicated that
there is a better option for placement of the junction box, but the stairwell and landscape planter
were consistent with the concept plans. It would not be practical to prohibit any encroachment
into the area, and the 50-foot easement would not have a negative impact on the public space.

In response to a question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Ray stated that originally the junction box was
in a more obvious location near the cul-de-sac. The proposed location would allow for better
screening and was where Rocky Mountain Power had requested it be located. He was not sure
where else it could be located. The access is an Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) ramp
that will provide access to the parking structure and the property owner will maintain.

Commissioner Anderson moved to APPROVE Project SUB-26-001, 001, a request by Chris
Ensign with Encore Development, LLC, to amend Unit 2B of the Canyon Centre Condominiums
Amended #1 Plat and a portion of Lot 1 of the Canyon Centre Subdivision Plat to plat 36
previously approved residential units (City File CUP-24-016) in a condominium form of
ownership at 7367 South Canyon Centre Parkway, subject to the Findings and Conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2026, as amended to require the electrical junction box
and related infrastructure identified in Conditional of Approval 3 to be located on private
property. Commissioner Poulson seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Mills-
Yes; Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of January 21, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

Chair Steinman stated that he had not had time to properly review the minutes and proposed that
the item be tabled until the next meeting.

Commissioner Anderson moved to CONTINUE the Consent Agenda to the March 4, 2026,
Planning Commission Meeting. Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                                       19
5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Business Meeting. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 7:51 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                        20
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, February 4, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/26                               21
