COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
April 1, 2026
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, April 1,
2026, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work Session
and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. –Council workroom
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 CUP-25-005 -Old Mill Demolition

       3.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose.

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Project CUP-26-004
               The Planning Commission will review and take possible action on a Conditional Use Permit request
               by Jared Park for an exception to allow a second driveway at 1720 E 6670 S.

               3.2 Project CUP-26-005
               The Planning Commission will review and take possible action on a Conditional Use Permit request
               by Sami Banizurail. The request is to operate a convenience store at 7825 S. Highland Dr.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of March 4, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: April 15, 2026.
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MDT on Tuesday, March 31, 2026, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, March 26, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front
foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 26th DAY OF MARCH, 2026, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
STAFF REPORT
April 1, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-26-004

Subject Property:
1720 E. 6670 S.

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval for a
second driveway exception

Applicants:
Jared Park

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions


                                                Aerial View

Context
Property Owners:
Jared Park

Address & Parcel #:
1720 E. 6670 S.
22-21-402-003-0000

Acres:
0.39

Zoning:
R-1-8 Residential Single-Family   View of property from northeast entrance
                                 Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-004
                                                                                     April 1, 2026


Request
The applicant is requesting approval for an exception to construct a second driveway approach at
1720 E. 6670 S. The property is currently in the process of obtaining a building permit for an
addition that will include an internal ADU. The proposed second driveway would satisfy the
requirement that each internal ADU provide at least one off-street parking space (§19.75.050.F).

The property is located within the R-1-8 Single-Family Zone, which permits only one driveway
access unless a circular driveway is constructed (§14.12.110.B.1). While the lot has sufficient
width to accommodate a circular driveway (minimum 35 feet between access points;
§14.12.110.B.2), the applicant states that this design would result in unnecessary cost, removal of
existing landscaping, and disruption to the site.

Construction of a circular driveway
would require additional grading,
paving, and the removal of
established landscaping, including
several mature trees that
contribute to the property’s
character and neighborhood
aesthetics. A second, separate
driveway approach would minimize
site disturbance, reduce project
costs, and preserve existing
vegetation.

From a public safety standpoint,
the proposed second driveway
would function similarly to a
circular driveway, as vehicle entry
and exit points would be located in
comparable positions. Therefore,
the proposed design is not
expected to create additional
safety concerns.

                                            Proposed location of second driveway (shown in blue)




                                                                                         Page 2 of 5
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-004
                                                                                      April 1, 2026


Analysis
Zoning

Section 14.12.150 allows the City Council to grant exceptions to driveway standards in cases
where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions exist, subject to a
recommendation from the Planning Commission.

Although the property could accommodate a circular driveway consistent with code requirements,
doing so would result in greater site disturbance and a reduction in aesthetic value due to the
removal of mature landscaping. The applicant’s proposal to construct a second driveway instead
represents a reasonable alternative that achieves the same functional outcome with less impact.

Based on the applicant’s narrative and site plan, this request demonstrates the presence of
aesthetic and site-related constraints that justify consideration of an exception. Additionally,
allowing a second driveway in this configuration is not anticipated to negatively affect public safety
or welfare when compared to a permitted circular driveway.

19.84.080 Determination

   A. Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
      public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
      factors. The planning commission may either recommend the proposed conditional use for
      approval by the City Council; recommend the proposed conditional use subject to specific
      modifications or conditions; postpone decision pending consideration of additional
      information to be submitted by the applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use.
   B. In recommending a conditional use for approval, the planning commission may impose such
      requirements and conditions as it deems necessary for the protection of adjacent properties
      and the public welfare. The planning commission shall only recommend approval with
      conditions, or deny a conditional use, based upon written findings of fact with regard to each
      of the standards set forth below and, where applicable, any special standards for conditional
      uses set forth in the specific zoning district. The planning commission shall not approve
      issuance of a conditional use permit unless the evidence presented is such as to establish
      the following:
          1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning
              district in which it is to be located;
          2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental
              to the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working
              in the vicinity;
          3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
              compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
          4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in
              which it is to be located;
          5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be
              abated by the conditions imposed;
          6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will
              be assured;

                                                                                            Page 3 of 5
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-004
                                                                                      April 1, 2026

           7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
           8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
               imposed on the applicant or owner;
           9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly
               designed;
           10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
               development;
           11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light,
               noise and visual impacts;
           12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
               surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
               ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
           13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses
               will be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
           14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features
               of the property; and
           15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
           16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of
               Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.

Noticing
Notice of the public hearing was mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property
at least 10 days prior to the public hearing, in accordance with CHMC §19.84.050.



Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
   1. The applicant has submitted a written narrative and site plan demonstrating that the
      proposed second driveway will provide the required off-street parking for the internal ADU
      in compliance with Section §19.75.050.F. The request is for an exception to Section
      §14.12.100.B, which limits properties in the R-1-8 Zone to a single driveway access unless a
      circular driveway is utilized.
   2. Pursuant to Section §14.12.150, the City Council may grant exceptions to driveway
      standards where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions exist. In
      this case, the proposed circular driveway—while permitted by code—would require
      additional grading, paving, and removal of mature landscaping, resulting in increased site
      disturbance and reduced aesthetic value. The applicant’s request to construct a second
      driveway represents a reasonable alternative that minimizes these impacts while achieving
      the same functional outcome.
   3. Staff finds that the proposed second driveway will not create additional impacts to public
      safety or welfare, as vehicle access and circulation would be substantially similar to what
      would occur with a permitted circular driveway configuration.
   4. A Planning Commission public hearing will be held in accordance with applicable local and
      state noticing and procedural requirements. The Planning Commission will forward a
      recommendation to the City Council, which will make the final decision on the requested
      driveway exception.
                                                                                        Page 4 of 5
                                  Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-004
                                                                                      April 1, 2026


Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the application with conditions:

Conditions of Approval
   1. The second driveway approach shall be constructed in substantial conformance with the
      approved site plan and materials submitted with this application.
   2. The second driveway approach shall not be constructed until an ADU license application has
      been approved.
   3. The applicant shall obtain all required permits, including but not limited to a building permit
      and any applicable engineering or right-of-way permits, prior to construction of the driveway
      and ADU improvements.
   4. The driveway approach shall comply with all applicable City standards for width, materials,
      drainage, and access, subject to review and approval by the City Engineer.
   5. Any work within the public right-of-way, including the driveway approach, shall be reviewed
      and approved by the City and constructed in accordance with applicable public works
      standards.
   6. The approval of this exception is specific to the site and proposal as submitted.
   7. The internal ADU and associated parking shall comply with all applicable provisions of
      Section §19.75.050, including the requirement for off-street parking.

Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-26-004, based upon the recommended findings for approval
outlined in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-26-004, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1.   Applicant Narrative
   2.   Street View
   3.   Site Plan with Addition
   4.   Aerial View




                                                                                         Page 5 of 5
Jared Park - Project Narrative – Request for Second Driveway Exception (14.12.150)

I respectfully request approval for a second driveway at my property to provide compliant
off-street parking for the proposed Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU). This request is made
under Section 14.12.150, as the property presents site constraints that make a single-
driveway or circular driveway configuration impractical without unnecessary cost, site
disruption, and loss of existing landscaping.

The lot configuration, existing layout, and street approach are not well suited for a circular
driveway. Constructing a looped driveway would require substantially more grading,
paving, and removal of established landscaping, significantly increasing project cost while
expanding the overall paved footprint on the property.

A circular driveway would also require the removal of multiple mature trees that contribute
positively to neighborhood aesthetics and existing green space. Preserving these trees
reduces environmental impact and maintains the character of the property while avoiding
unnecessary overdevelopment of paved surfaces.

From a public safety and welfare perspective, the proposed second driveway location has
been selected to maintain clear vehicle sightlines and safe ingress and egress. The existing
trees do not obstruct visibility, and the entrance point is positioned in an area with minimal
traffic conflict and no directly impacted neighboring driveways. As a result, the additional
access will not create congestion, sightline hazards, or adverse pedestrian or vehicular
safety concerns.

Approval of this exception will allow the property to meet off-street parking requirements
for the ADU in the least intrusive and most practical manner given the site’s layout and
constraints. The proposed second driveway preserves landscaping, minimizes visual and
environmental impact, and is consistent with the intent of Section 14.12.150, as it will not
be detrimental to public safety, neighborhood character, or general welfare.

Respectfully submitted,

Jared Park

Property Owner – 1720 E. 6670 S. Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
STAFF REPORT
April 1, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-26-006

Subject Property:
7825 S Highland Drive

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval for a
convenience store

Applicants:
Sami Banizuraij, Authorized
Agent

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions                           Aerial View

Context
Property Owners:
Stiel Holdings, LLC

Address & Parcel #:
7833 S Highland Drive
22-34-104-021-0000

Acres:
±1.87

Zoning:
NC – Neighborhood Commercial




                                 View from parking lot; former Beehive Blend CBD
                                        Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                            April 1, 2026


Background/Summary
The applicant is requesting Conditional Use Permit approval to operate Hi-Mart, a neighborhood
convenience store, within an existing ±24,300-square-foot multi-tenant commercial center. The proposed
use will occupy a tenant space formerly operated as Beehive Blends CBD shop. The applicant has indicated
that the space can be occupied without interior remodels or exterior site modifications.

The subject property is part of an established commercial center known as Cottonwood Creek that contains
a mix of neighborhood-serving retail and service uses, including fitness, restaurant, personal care, and
medical-type offices uses. The commercial center functions with shared vehicular access, internal
circulation, and common off-street parking facilities.

Hi-Mart is proposed as a small-scale retail convenience store intended to serve nearby residents and
employees by providing access to everyday goods such as pre-packaged food and beverages, snack items,
limited grocery staples, and household sundries. The applicant anticipates operating daily from
approximately 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., with an estimated customer volume of approximately 50 customers
per day and peak activity occurring during morning commute periods, lunchtime hours, and early evening.

The existing tenant space includes a retail sales area with accessory storage, office, and restroom facilities,
as illustrated in the floor plan provided in the applicant’s narrative materials.

Request
The applicant is requesting Conditional Use Permit approval to operate Hi-Mart, a neighborhood
convenience store, within an existing multi-tenant commercial center. The proposed business will
offer pre-packaged food and beverages, snack items, limited grocery staples, household sundries,
and similar convenience retail goods intended to serve nearby residents and employees.

The applicant’s narrative references the potential sale of lottery tickets; however, lottery sales are
prohibited in the State of Utah. Accordingly, lottery ticket sales are not permitted as part of the
proposed use and are not authorized under this Conditional Use request.

The applicant has indicated that tobacco products may be sold as part of the convenience retail
operation. Tobacco sales are permitted provided they remain accessory to the primary retail use. Staff
notes that pursuant to Utah Code Section 10-8-41.6, a business in which the sale or display of
tobacco products meets the statutory definition of a tobacco specialty shop is subject to additional
State and local land use restrictions. Tobacco specialty shops are not permitted within the
Neighborhood Commercial zoning district, and State law further establishes location limitations for
such uses, including required separation from residential zoning districts.

Based on the information provided, the proposed use is intended to function as a general
convenience retail store, with tobacco sales comprising a limited and accessory component of the
overall business. If tobacco sales or the display of tobacco products is expanded in a manner that
would result in the business meeting the definition of a tobacco specialty shop under Utah Code
Section 10-8-41.6, the use would be in violation of applicable City zoning regulations and would not
be permitted in the Neighborhood Commercial zone. Any such change in the nature or intensity of the
use would require additional City review and approval and may result in enforcement action.


                                                                                                 Page 2 of 7
                                       Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                           April 1, 2026


Zoning Map




Analysis
Zoning & Conditional Use Review
Convenience stores are classified as a conditional use within the Neighborhood Commercial zoning district.
Conditional uses are defined as land uses that may be compatible with surrounding uses provided that
specific conditions are imposed to mitigate potential impacts.

Pursuant to CHMC Chapter 19.84, the Planning Commission must determine whether the proposed use
satisfies applicable approval standards, including compatibility with surrounding land uses, consistency
with the General Plan, adequacy of site design and infrastructure, and protection of public health, safety,
and welfare.



                                                                                               Page 3 of 7
                                       Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                           April 1, 2026

Conditional Use Approval Standards

Staff have evaluated the request based on the standards set forth in CHMC 19.84 and find the following:

1. The proposed use is specifically listed as a conditional use.
   Staff Findings: A “convenience store” is listed as a conditional use in the Neighborhood Commercial
   zoning district and is therefore eligible for consideration by the Planning Commission.

2. The use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
   Staff Findings: The proposed use consists of neighborhood-serving retail activities within an existing
   commercial center. No automotive service, repair, or other higher-intensity commercial operations are
   proposed. As such, staff find that the use is not anticipated to create adverse impacts to public health,
   safety, or the general welfare of the City or its residents.

3. The use is consistent with the intent and planning objectives of the City.
   Staff Findings: Convenience retail uses provide localized access to everyday goods and services and
   support the City’s planning goal of promoting neighborhood-scale commercial businesses that reduce the
   need for longer vehicle trips.

4. The use will be harmonious with surrounding commercial uses.
   Staff Findings: The site already contains a mix of retail and service-oriented tenants, and the proposed
   use is comparable in scale and intensity.

5. Potential nuisances can be mitigated through conditions.
   Staff Findings: Conditions have been imposed requiring compliance with business licensing requirements,
   off-street parking provisions, signage regulations, and all applicable City ordinances. These conditions
   are intended to minimize potential nuisances and ensure the proposed use remains compatible with
   surrounding properties and uses.

6. Property values, environmental quality, and the City’s tax base will be protected.
   Staff Findings: The proposed use involves the occupancy and adaptive reuse of an existing vacant tenant
   space within a developed commercial center. The request does not require new building construction or
   significant site disturbance and therefore is not expected to result in adverse environmental impacts. By
   supporting the continued viability of the commercial center and introducing an additional neighborhood-
   serving retail use, the proposal is expected to contribute positively to local economic activity, help
   maintain surrounding property values, and support the City’s long-term tax base.

7. The use is consistent with the City’s General Plan.
   Staff Findings: The proposal reinforces the intended function of neighborhood commercial centers as
   activity nodes serving surrounding residential areas.

8. Compliance guarantees may be imposed.
   Staff Findings: Conditions of approval have been included as part of the Conditional Use Permit to ensure
   the proposed use operates in compliance with applicable City regulations. These conditions provide the
   City with clear enforcement mechanisms, including the ability to review, modify, or revoke the approval
   in the event of noncompliance. Such measures help ensure the ongoing protection of surrounding
   properties and the public welfare.


                                                                                                Page 4 of 7
                                        Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                            April 1, 2026

9. Internal circulation and access are adequate.
    Staff Findings: The existing commercial center provides established vehicular access and internal
    circulation patterns.

10. Utilities and public services are adequate.
   Staff Findings: The tenant space is already served by existing utility infrastructure.

11. Appropriate buffering is provided.
   Staff Findings: The use is located within an established commercial center and does not introduce new
   exterior impacts which would require additional buffering.

12. Architectural compatibility is maintained.
   Staff Findings: No exterior building modifications are proposed with the application.

13. Landscaping compliance is maintained.
   Staff Findings: No exterior site modifications are proposed, and the existing site landscaping will remain
   unchanged and in place.

14. Historic and environmental features are preserved.
    Staff Findings: The proposal does not involve alterations to such features.

15. Operating hours are compatible with surrounding uses.
    Staff Findings: The proposed hours of operation are typical for neighborhood retail uses and align with
    surrounding commercial activity.

Parking
Pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 19.80 (Off-Street Parking Requirements) of the Cottonwood
Heights Municipal Code, development and changes in land use must provide adequate off-street parking to
serve the anticipated demand generated by the proposed uses. In evaluating whether the existing parking
supply is sufficient, staff have reviewed the current tenant mix and applied industry-standard parking
demand data.

Staff Findings: Staff have evaluated the proposed tenant mix using parking demand data published in the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation Manual, applying the closest comparable
land-use categories for each tenant space. Based on this analysis, the estimated peak parking demand for
the site is approximately 92 parking spaces, including:

    •   43 spaces – 13,000-square-foot fitness/gym use
    •   6 spaces – 1,800-square-foot personal care (nail salon) use
    •   7 spaces each – two 1,800-square-foot physical therapy offices
    •   18 spaces – 1,800-square-foot sit-down restaurant
    •   5 spaces – 1,800-square-foot professional office
    •   6 spaces – 1,280-square-foot convenience store

The site provides a total of 115 off-street parking stalls, which are shared among all tenants within the
commercial center in accordance with the shared parking concepts contemplated under Chapter 19.80.

Staff notes that the restaurant and fitness uses are anticipated to generate the greatest parking demand;
however, these uses typically experience differing peak periods. Restaurant demand is generally highest
                                                                                               Page 5 of 7
                                       Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                           April 1, 2026

during lunch and evening dining hours, while fitness uses often peak during early morning and evening
periods. These variations support the effective use of shared parking and reduce the likelihood that all
tenant uses will generate peak demand simultaneously.

Based on the estimated parking demand relative to the number of parking stalls provided on site, and
consistent with the intent of CHMC Chapter 19.80 to ensure adequate off-street parking is available to serve
proposed land uses, staff find that the existing shared parking supply is sufficient to accommodate the
proposed mix of uses.

Noticing
Notice of the public hearing was mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property at least
10 days prior to the public hearing, in accordance with CHMC §19.84.050.

Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
    1. The proposed convenience store is a conditional use and requires conditional use permit review in
       the Neighborhood Commercial zoning district.
    2. The proposed operations are consistent with neighborhood-serving commercial uses and are not
       expected to create adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
    3. Adequate off-street shared parking is available to serve the proposed use and existing tenants.
    4. The request supports reuse of an existing tenant space without requiring exterior site
       modifications.
    5. The proposal is consistent with applicable City zoning and Conditional Use standards.

Recommendation
Staff recommend approval of the application with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval
    1. The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business license.
    2. The business operations shall be limited to retail convenience store uses as described in the
       application narrative.
    3. Any exterior modifications, signage, or tenant improvements requiring permits shall receive City
       approval prior to installation.
    4. Approval of the Conditional Use Permit may be reviewed or revoked upon verified non-compliance
       with City ordinances or conditions of approval.
    5. Tobacco sales and product displays shall remain accessory to the primary retail use and shall not
       expand in a manner that would cause the business to meet the definition of a tobacco specialty
       shop under Utah Code Section 10-8-41.6. If the use is determined to meet this definition, it shall be
       considered a violation of City zoning regulations and this Conditional Use approval and may be
       subject to review, enforcement, or revocation.




                                                                                               Page 6 of 7
                                   Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-005
                                                                                       April 1, 2026


Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-26-005, based upon the recommended findings for approval outlined
in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-26-005, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1. Applicant Narrative
   2. Floor Plan
   3. Site/Zone Maps




                                                                                      Page 7 of 7
   Attachment - A
Applicant Narrative
  Re: Hi Mart - Convenience             Store Use Description   and Zoning   Consistency   Statement

  Dear Members          of the Planning    Commission,

  On behalf of Hi Mart, we respectfully  submit this letter to provide a detailed description
  of the proposed business operations and
                                           to demonstrate   consistency with the applicable
  provisions  of the Cottonwood  Heights Municipal   Code, including   CHMC 19.04.680.

  1. Business  Description
 Hi Mart is proposed as a standard neighborhood
                                                          convenience store designed to serve the
 daily needs of the surrounding         residential and working community   The store will operate
 as a retail establishi'nent    offering a focused selection of goods and
                                                                           services typical of
 convenience-oriented        retail.

  Products and Services to be Provided:
 Pre-packaged     food and beverages for on- and off-premises
                                                                  consumption
 Snack items, soft drinks, coffee, and quick-serve
                                                     food options
 Limited   grocery items (milk, bread, eggs, and similar
                                                           staples)
 Household    sundries and personal care items
 Tobacco products (if permitted)
 Lottery sales (if permitted)
 The business will not provide any automotive-related
                                                           services or uses.

 Days and Hours         of Operation:
 Monday       through
                    Sunday: 9:00 AM to 9:00 PM
Anticipated   Customer Volume:
 Estimated 50 custon'iers per day, with peak
                                              activity occurring    during morning commute
 hours, lunch periods, and early evening hours.
 2. Zoning Ordinance Consistency     (CHMC 19.04.680)
 The proposed Hi Mart use is fully consistent
                                                with the definition   and intent of a
"Convenience    Store" as outlined in CHMC 19.04.680.


Retail   Establisbrnent:     Hi Mart is a retail
                                              operation focused on the sale of food, beverages,
and limited     grocery    and sundry
                                    items, aligning directly with the ordinance
                                                                                        definition.
Food Sales (On- and Off-Premises):        The store will provide pre-packaged         food and drink
options suitable for both immediate      consumption     and take-away, consistent with typical
convenience    store operations.
Limited Grocery and Sundries: The inventory
                                                     will include a curated selection of essential
grocery items and household products, consistent
                                                          with the "limited   selection"    standard
described in the code.
No Automobile      Repair Services: The proposed use explicitly
                                                                       excludes any automobile
 repair,     maintenance,        or service     functions,      maintaining         full   compliance      with    the ordinance
 restriction.
 Neighborhood           Compatibility:         Hi Mart       is intended    to serve nearby        residents       and
 businesses       by providing       convenient       access to daily           necessities,    reducing     the need for
 longer      vehicle   trips   and supporting        local     accessibility.
3. Conclusion
Hi Mart    represents  a compliant,     low-impact     retail use that aligns with both the
intent                                                                                        letter and
        of the Cottonwood       Heights Zoning     Ordinance.     The proposed    operation fits
squarely    within the definition    of a convenience      store under CHMC      19.04.680  and is
designed to integrate    seamlessly      into the surrounding     community.

We appreciate          your    consideration      and welcome           the opportunity         to address        any questions
or provide       additional     information       as needed.

Sincerely,


Sami      Banizurav
Owner
Hi Mart
Attachment - B
    Floor Plan
                                                             I




                                       30'3"


                   Retail
                   Area
      40'4"




                 19' 4"
g                                                    I



                     s




                         T41811
                         J,,        Office
    15'6"                                    Blgll

       Siorage
          -.                    z
                                      81211
                                                         g




r9,6.               II Jl
                 241711        li                        z


lStoragel1(7                   % 8' RR'
Attachment - C
Site/Zone Maps
                                                   1975 E FOREST BEND DR
                    7784 S                                Acre: 0.46
                 HIGHLAND DR                         1975 E FOREST
                    Acre: 3                             BEND DR
                                                       Acre: 0.073
                       E FOREST BEND DR    1975
                              E FOREST BEND DR                                                                          7673 S
                                     Acre: 0.116                                                                     HIGHLAND DR
                                                                                                                      Acre: 21.58


    1990 E FOREST
    BEND DR
    Acre: 1.02


                      1994 E FOREST
                        BEND DR
                        Acre: 1.08




                                                                                                Proposed Location




                                                              R
                                                                                                                                       7807 S



                                                            DD
                                                                                                                                    HIGHLAND DR

                                                         LAN
                                                                                                                                     Acre: 1.154
                                                      IGH                           7833 S
                                                                                 HIGHLAND DR
                                                    SH


                                                                                   Acre: 1.87


                                                                                                                                                                     7809 S
                                                                                                                                                                  HIGHLAND DR
              7846 S                                                                                                                                                Acre: 1.06
           HIGHLAND DR
             Acre: 0.85




                                                                                                 2075 E COTTONWOOD                                        2111 E COTTONWOOD
                                                                                                       COVE LN                                                  COVE LN
                                                                                                        Acre: 2                                                  Acre: 1
   7896 S
                                                                                                                        2085 E COTTONWOOD
HIGHLAND DR
                                                                                                                              COVE LN
  Acre: 0.64                                                                                                                                       2095 E COTTONWOOD
                  7884 S                                                                                                       Acre: 1
               HIGHLAND DR                                                                                                                               COVE LN
                 Acre: 0.32                                          7839 S                                                                               Acre: 1
                                                                  HIGHLAND DR
                                                                    Acre: 0.93




                                                           City File - CUP-26-005 (HiMart Convenience Store)
                                                                          7825 S Highland Drive                                0          50           100 Feet

                                                                                                                                                                     ²
                                                   1975 E FOREST BEND DR
                      7784 S                              Acre: 0.46
                   HIGHLAND DR                       1975 E FOREST
                      Acre: 3                           BEND DR
                                                       Acre: 0.073
                        E FOREST BEND DR   1975
                              E FOREST BEND DR                                                                               7673 S
                                     Acre: 0.116                                                                          HIGHLAND DR
                                                                                                                           Acre: 21.58
                                                                                                                       RM Residential
    1990 E FOREST
                                                                                                                        Multi-Family
    BEND DR
    Acre: 1.02


                        1994 E FOREST
                          BEND DR
                          Acre: 1.08




                                                                                 NC Neighborhood



                                                              R
                                                                                   Commercial                                               7807 S



                                                            DD
                                                                                                                                         HIGHLAND DR

                                                         LAN
                                                                                                                                          Acre: 1.154
                                                      IGH                             7833 S
                                                                                   HIGHLAND DR
                                                    SH


                                                                                     Acre: 1.87


                                                                                                                                                                          7809 S
                                                                                                                                                                       HIGHLAND DR
               7846 S                                                                                                                                                    Acre: 1.06
            HIGHLAND DR
              Acre: 0.85

                                                                                                                              RR-1-43 Rural
                                                                                                                               Residential




                                                                                                   2075 E COTTONWOOD                                           2111 E COTTONWOOD
     RO Residential                                                                                      COVE LN                                                     COVE LN
                                                                                                          Acre: 2                                                     Acre: 1
   7896 S Office
                                                                                                                             2085 E COTTONWOOD
HIGHLAND DR
                                                                                                                                   COVE LN
  Acre: 0.64                                                                                                                                            2095 E COTTONWOOD
                  7884 S                                                                                                            Acre: 1
               HIGHLAND DR                                                                                                                                    COVE LN
                 Acre: 0.32                                          7839 S                                                                                    Acre: 1
                                                                  HIGHLAND DR
                                                                    Acre: 0.93




                                                           City File - CUP-26-005 (HiMart Convenience Store)
                                                                          7825 S Highland Drive                                     0          50           100 Feet

                                                                                                                                                                          ²
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT (WORK SESSION)
April 1, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-005

Subject Property:
6851 S. Big Cottonwood
Canyon Rd

Action Requested:
Review and discussion




                         Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Doug Shelby; WDOM
Properties LLC

Acreage:
0.86 acres




                               Google Street View
                                                        Planning Commission Work Session– April 1, 2026
                                                 Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd


Summary / Background
Staff have prepared this report to assist the Planning Commission in its ongoing review of the
request submitted by Doug Shelby to demolish the Old Mill, a local and federally designated
historic structure. Pursuant to Section 19.86.040 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code,
applications involving designated historic sites must pend before the Planning Commission for a
minimum period of one year prior to a final decision.

This report is intended to provide the Commission with additional information and materials
submitted by the applicant and to support continued development of the record during the
required pendency period.

Prior Applicant Submittals (March 4, 2026, Work Session)

For the March 4, 2026, work session, the applicant submitted materials intended to provide
historical and technical context regarding the condition of the Old Mill structure. These materials
included:

   •   Flood damage statements
   •   Seismic analysis and related reports
   •   Information regarding applicable seismic law and code
   •   Historical inspection documentation

These materials were provided to assist the Planning Commission in understanding structural
conditions, regulatory considerations, and historical context associated with the demolition
request. Commissioners are encouraged to review these previously submitted materials and
prepare any questions or clarification items for discussion during current and future work sessions.


Current Applicant Submittals
Donations and Contributions Related to Preservation
Consistent with the submittal of materials schedule outlined in the March 4, 2026, staff report, the
applicant has submitted documentation addressing donations and contributions related to
preservation of the Old Mill.
According to the submitted materials:
   •   Walker Development states that it has not received donations or financial contributions
       from any governmental entity, private individual, organization, or corporation specifically
       for preservation of the Old Mill.
   •   The applicant indicates that no preservation funds were formally offered directly to Walker
       Development for use in preserving the structure.
   •   Meetings were held with Cottonwood Heights representatives between approximately
       February and August 2024 to explore potential preservation funding sources. Corporate and



                                                                                            Page 2 of 3
                                                        Planning Commission Work Session– April 1, 2026
                                                 Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd
       state funding opportunities were investigated during that time; however, no significant
       funding sources were identified.
   •   Historical documentation included in the submittal references efforts by Salt Lake County
       in the 1970s to acquire and restore the Old Mill for park and recreational purposes.
       Correspondence provided by the applicant indicates that those efforts were not successful
       due to lack of available funding.
   •   The applicant also describes discussions related to a proposed art center initiative
       involving a private citizen and a potential donor. According to the submittal, any proposed
       donation was intended for the art center initiative rather than directly for Walker
       Development or solely for preservation of the Old Mill. No purchase offer or preservation
       funding commitment resulted from those discussions.

These materials are provided for Planning Commission review as part of the City’s due diligence
process. Commissioners are encouraged to review the submitted documents in advance and
prepare any questions they may wish to direct to the applicant or staff during the upcoming May
2026 work session.



Upcoming Work Session Submittals
The applicant has indicated that additional information will be presented at future Planning
Commission work sessions in accordance with the previously proposed schedule:
   •   March 2026 Work Session - Flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law
       and code, and SL County Inspection Report (1996)
   •   April 2026 Work Session - Donations and contributions related to preservation
   •   May 2026 Work Session - Maintenance, rebuilding, and renovation considerations
   •   June 2026 Work Session - Old Mill business review


Attachments
   A. Donation History and Art Center Proposal




                                                                                            Page 3 of 3
              Attachment - A
Donation History & Art Center Proposal
                   MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, March 4, 2026
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Dan Poulson,
                       Commissioner Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner
                       Garry Barnes, Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Sydney Pierce;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner III, Sheldon Howa

Absent:                Commissioner Mike Shelton

WORK SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda and reported that the General Public
Comment period will be followed by two Action Items, Projects CUP-26-003 and CUP-25-005.
The January 21 and February 4, 2026, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes will be reviewed
in Item 4.

2.0    CUP-25-005 -Old Mill Demolition.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the Staff Report
contained additional exhibits that had been requested by the Planning Commission at the January
meeting. Materials included information on the Old Mill’s National Register of Historic Places
designation and how it may impact the decision, as well as the history of enforcement measures
on the property. No materials were provided on liability considerations as the structure first needs
to be inspected to determine its current condition. The City was in the process of drafting a Request
for Qualifications (“RFQ”) to hire a third-party engineering consultant to perform a non-biased,
independent analysis of the structure.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Anderson, Mr. Spung stated that an RFQ is
similar to a Request for Proposals (“RFP”) but is intended for professional services to conduct a
study rather than design or a specific project. He hoped to open the RFQ within one month and
have the completed study within six months. The process was initiated in January 2026, and the


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                          1
Planning Commission would have at least 12 months to review the application. During that time
period, they needed to collect as much data as possible to inform their future decision.

Information about the City’s preservation efforts was included in the Staff Report. In addition, the
applicant provided a 1996 inspection report from the Salt Lake County Chief Building Official, a
1983 flood damage statement, a 2026 geological hazards mapping and data report, and information
on Utah seismic law.

The applicant proposed the following schedule to provide additional information:

   •   April 2026 Work Session: Donations and contributions related to preservation;
   •   May 2026 Work Session: Maintenance, rebuild, and renovation considerations; and
   •   June 2026 Work Session: Old Mill business review.

Mr. Spung recommended that the Planning Commission review the Staff Report and then discuss
its contents with the applicant at the April Work Session. Staff would provide more information
at that time, which could be discussed in May. He reported that because the item was formally
tabled, it had been placed on the Business Meeting Agenda. A public hearing was not necessary,
but it would need to be tabled again.

Commissioner Barnes asked about the City’s jurisdiction over the site. Mr. Spung stated that it is
treated the same as all other properties. Commissioner Barnes questioned the City’s involvement
in the decision outside of safety and security concerns. He believes the equity participants should
have a right to use the property. There were a lot of voices with no equity investment, and the City
was now incurring costs to contract a consultant. He believes the City may be overstepping its
bounds.

Mr. Spung stated that the property is unique. It is subject to the same expectations as all other
properties within Cottonwood Heights. The difference is that the property was designated as a
Historic Structure, and City Code outlines specific standards and rules that apply to Historic
Structures. The review was triggered by those requirements. Any modification or demolition
requires the City to go through a process to either approve or deny the request. Any historic asset
can be deemed a public asset as it contributes to the character of the community. There is a public
interest in the Old Mill, and that is why the code was adopted when the City was formed. The
City’s interest is in following its adopted process and ensuring that, before making a decision that
will ultimately impact the public, all avenues are explored and all information obtained to make
an informed decision.

Commissioner Barnes asked why the City has to incur the cost of the third-party consultant rather
than the equity owner. If it is a liability issue, the property owner can insure against that outcome.
Mr. Spung stated that the owners previously provided studies and analyses, and the City hired an
engineer to review those studies, who agreed with their conclusions. The reason for the City to
perform a completely independent review is to remove any bias or doubts about the motives of the
applicant’s consultants. The applicant could be asked to share the costs, but would not be required
to. However, the City Council feels it is important and is willing to bear the cost to ensure that the
public receives accurate information.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                           2
Chair Steinman asked Mr. Spung to review the steps that will occur after the Planning Commission
makes a decision. Mr. Spung reported that the request is to demolish the structure, and doing so
first requires a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) from the Planning Commission. That process has
certain criteria and metrics that must be met. After Commission review, the applicant will apply
for a Certificate of Appropriateness, which must be approved by the City Council. A prerequisite
of that application is a positive recommendation from the Planning Commission and approval of
the CUP. Approval of the CUP does not guarantee that the Council will approve the Certificate
of Appropriateness, and both are required. The CUP has a review period of at least one year, and
no decision can be made in that time. The Council must make a decision on the Certificate of
Appropriateness within four months of receipt of the complete application.

Commissioner Anderson asked about the circumstances that require a Certificate of
Appropriateness. Mr. Spung reported that they are specific to Historic Structures and not part of
the Planning Commission’s review.

Attorney Dan Hemmert spoke on behalf of the applicant and requested that the Planning
Commission accommodate the proposed timeline to discuss the bigger topics from the January
meeting. As most of the materials are older and not stored digitally, he asked for patience while
they compile any requested information.

Commissioner Mills stated that a member of the public with expertise in the area had expressed a
willingness to provide his expert opinion gratis and asked if the City had contemplated his offer.
Mr. Spung stated that the City would be willing to entertain those types of independent analysis,
but the citizen would need to work with the property owner. The City is interested in preserving
the asset and understanding how that can be achieved, but it can be difficult to integrate volunteers
who have their own interests. While they can provide helpful information, he did not believe the
City could formally commission or approve the work. Commissioner Mills stated that it is such a
unique property that they may need advice from more than one person or firm. There are multiple
issues, and he hopes that there is the potential to obtain opinions from people with different
expertise.

Mr. Spung indicated that he would speak with City Manager, Jared Gerber, about the matter. As
part of the RFQ, it can be requested that the firm have subconsultants with specific expertise. The
group that is responsible for the seismic retrofits at the Salt Lake Temple has been recommended,
as well as other firms that have done historic preservation work in the Salt Lake Valley. The
consultant needs to be able to provide a solid, knowledgeable study that can help the Planning
Commission and City Council make a decision. If the consultant determines that the structure can
be preserved, that will change the conversation. The first step is to determine its status and whether
parts of the structure can be salvaged, or it can be renovated or rebuilt.

Commissioner Barnes stated that he did not understand why this was the Planning Commission’s
responsibility. He believes the owner should be responsible for providing the information rather
than the City spending taxpayer money on a project it only has a passing interest in. Commissioner
Mills stated that the property owner has provided information to the degree that the statute requires,
but the City would like to have its own opinion.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                           3
Chair Steinman stated that there are only two Historic Structures in Cottonwood Heights, and his
understanding of the code is that this information is required to make a determination. He asked
Mr. Spung to explain the process for obtaining a CUP to demolish a non-Historic Structure.
Mr. Spung reported that non-Historic Structures require a $47 permit for demolition and
compliance with air quality and other standards. It can be a one-day process with the City. Planner
III, Maverick Yeh, added that Salt Lake County Pre-Demolition and Utah Division of Air Quality
Permits are required. They must also coordinate with all utility companies. Mr. Spung stated that
the property owner must go through the CUP and Certificate of Appropriateness processes prior
to beginning the normal demolition process.

Chair Steinman stated that many cities have historical designations, but Cottonwood Heights only
has two Historic Structures and has never had to consider demolishing one. Salt Lake City does
not even allow property owners to change the windows in a Historic Structure without committee
approval, and Park City’s requirements are even stricter. The City has a responsibility for its
Historic Structures just like the property owner does.

Mr. Spung reviewed Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code (“CHMC”) § 15.15.040: Required
Certificate of Appropriateness.

       A.      Notwithstanding the issuance of a CUP to an applicant desiring to demolish a
               Historic Structure as provided in Section 19.86.030 of this code, such demolition
               shall not proceed unless and until:

               1.     The applicant submits an application for Certificate of Appropriateness to
                      the City Council based on claimed hardship to the applicant; and
               2.     The City Council issues a Certificate of Appropriateness of such demolition
                      as provided in Section 15.15.040.


       B.      The City Council may issue a Certificate of Appropriateness of demolition of a
               Historic Structure only after finding that all of the following conditions are met
               based on clear and convincing evidence presented by the applicant that is not
               reasonably refuted by one or more qualified experts engaged by the director:

               1.     The Historic Structure cannot be economically used or rented at a
                      reasonable rate of return in its present condition or if rehabilitated;
               2.     The Historic Structure cannot be put to any reasonable beneficial use in its
                      present condition or if rehabilitated;
               3.     Bona fide efforts during the previous year to sell or lease the Historic
                      Structure at a reasonable price have been unsuccessful;
               4.     The claimed hardship is not a mere reduction in the economic value of the
                      Historic Structure and its host property, is not caused by the owner's
                      financial ability to rehabilitate the Historic Structure, is not caused by the
                      owner's lack of due diligence to rehabilitate the Historic Structure, and is
                      not caused by any other self-imposed condition of the owner such as a



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                         4
                       failure to maintain the Historic Structure under Section 19.86.045 of this
                       code, neglect, or negligent or intentional destabilization of the Historic
                       Structure.

It is the City’s responsibility to verify with an expert that the applicant had accurately represented
the site conditions, and a CUP is a prerequisite to apply for a Certificate of Appropriateness.

Chair Steinman remarked that preservation can occur in many different forms and is not
necessarily preservation of the paper mill. There may be an adaptive reuse opportunity or one wall
could be preserved, for example. Mr. Spung stated that the RFQ will seek to better understand the
structure’s current condition and whether any portion of it can be salvaged or refurbished. A third-
party opinion will help the City understands those nuances. The property is currently in the
Regional Commercial Zone, which limits allowed uses, but the City could rezone it for a more
appropriate use. However, they could only speculate on those options until there is an
understanding of the structure’s current condition

Mr. Hemmert stated that the applicant was happy to provide any studies they have commissioned,
and it was the City’s prerogative to obtain additional studies. Regarding preservation, their belief
is that the best way to preserve the Historic Structure is by preserving elements of the Old Mill.
One proposal is to feature some of those elements at the new Town Center.

Commissioner Poulson remarked that a citizen who spoke at the public hearing was adamant that
the structure has a foundation, and the materials provided by the applicant confirmed that there is
a rock foundation. There is wide interest in the structure, and he believes it behooves the City to
use taxpayer money for a study to verify or refute the applicant’s position. If that was not done,
citizens would be very upset and likely take the well-founded position that the City did not do its
due diligence. It is wise to spend money to get an up-to-date opinion.

Mr. Spung recommended that the Planning Commission review the Staff Report in preparation for
the next meeting. Staff will provide them with more material at that time, and the process will
continue until all available information has been reviewed and discussed. A second public hearing
should be held prior to making a decision, but he recommended waiting until later in the process
to engage the public again. In response to a question from Commissioner Anderson, he reported
that notices must be mailed 10 days prior to the public hearing. It is helpful to guide the
conversation and set expectations for the public rather than just requesting open input.

Chair Steinman questioned whether the item should be removed from the agenda until the study is
completed. Commissioner Mills stated that there was a lot of information to discuss. For example,
the geological survey and seismic law documents were worth discussing. Conversations with the
property owner were also helpful to ensure that everyone has a clear understanding. He was in
favor of keeping the item on the agenda. Mr. Spung recommended keeping the item on the Work
Session agenda but tabling the Business Meeting item to a future date.

Mr. Hemmert stated that the applicant had discussed holding open houses to engage with the
community and provide information in a non-formal setting.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                           5
3.0     Use Table Update.

Mr. Spung reported that Zoning Code includes several chapters, and the Use Table update will
identify the land uses allowed in each zoning district. Current code requires someone to review
each specific zone to determine permitted and conditional uses. Some zones like Neighborhood
Commercial have no permitted uses; all uses require a CUP, which is a cumbersome and expensive
process.

Staff had extracted permitted and conditional uses for each zone and entered them into the
proposed Use Table. In that process, they determined that various terms were used for the same
use, and some terms were undefined. The final draft table will be alphabetized, consolidated, and
categorized. The intention was to move all zoning information to one location and standardize
naming conventions and definitions.

Mr. Spung reported that some changes were necessary to comply with the Federal Fair Housing
Act, and those changes would be reviewed in detail when the final draft was presented to the
Planning Commission.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Mr. Spung reported that Staff had not yet
identified potential permitted uses for the Neighborhood Commercial Zone. To determine what
should be permitted, you must consider each use’s potential impact to the area. For example, an
automotive paint shop would have different impacts than a convenience store. Uses that produce
odors, vibrations, traffic, or other specific issues that could be a detriment to the area should require
a CUP, but standard uses should be permitted without that process. The table will also include
specific standards for each use, and businesses that cannot comply with all requirements must
apply for a CUP.

4.0     Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:58 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                              6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                  Wednesday, March 4, 2026
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Dan Poulson,
                       Commissioner Lucy Anderson, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner
                       Garry Barnes, Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Sydney Pierce;        Planner III, Maverick Yeh; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner III, Sheldon Howa

Absent:                Commissioner Mike Shelton

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

Chair Steinman opened the Public Comment period.

Robin Taylor-Granda gave her address as 7735 South 2325 East. As the representative of
Preservation Utah, she expressed their appreciation for the Planning Commission’s efforts to
preserve the Old Mill. They are happy to see the measures the City is taking to investigate its
structural integrity and determine how best to move forward, as well as how seriously it is taking
citizen input about the property’s importance to the community. They are also pleased with the
owner’s efforts to make the building accessible and supply the City with the information it needs
to make an informed decision.

Shauna Bland resides in Old Mill Estates and has spoken about the Old Mill at every meeting. She
was grateful for the Planning Commission’s willingness to listen to citizens. She wants to see
single-family homes in the canyon and hopes the City will determine that is best for the area and
hopes the Old Mill can be preserved and beautified.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                       7
Roni O’Callaghan lives in Old Mill Estates and hopes that the land is used for single-family homes
and multipurpose trails for bikers and hikers. The area cannot accommodate high-density housing.
It is already congested and the property has not been developed.

Roger Bland has lived in Old Mill Estates for over 20 years. The canyon has single-family
neighborhoods, and they always expected the quality of life to remain unchanged. The canyon is
beautiful, and more density will affect the quality of life for everyone who lives there. He
recognizes private property rights and that the canyon will be developed, but it needs to be right
for the area.

There were no further comments. The Public Comment period was closed.

3.0       Business Items

          3.1    Project CUP-26-003 - The Planning Commission will Review and Take
                 Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit Request by Mark Schik to
                 Operate Children's Applied Behavior Analysis (“ABA”) Therapy
                 Office/Daycare at 1950 East Fort Union Boulevard.

Planner III, Maverick Yeh presented the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant had requested
approval of CUP to operate an outpatient ABA clinic serving children aged two to eight. The
clinic will operate Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Services occur indoors
only, and only minor internal modifications were proposed to the professional office space. Drop-
offs and pick-ups will be staggered to minimize traffic impacts, and a shared parking agreement
was in place with the property to the south to provide adequate parking. No outdoor activity areas,
heavy equipment, or hazardous materials were proposed. The applicant indicated that the clinic
would help meet growing community demand for early intervention services and reduce travel
burdens for local families.

The subject property is located within the Regional Commercial (“CR”) Zoning District. Pursuant
to CHMC §19.40.030.B, nursery schools and day care centers are conditional uses in CR zone.

While ABA therapy is a structured clinical service, the operational characteristics of the proposed
use are comparable to those of a nursery school or day care center in that:

      •   Services are provided to minors in a supervised setting;
      •   Clients are dropped off and picked up by parents or guardians;
      •   Activities occur indoors during standard daytime business hours;
      •   No overnight care is provided; and
      •   No outdoor play areas or exterior site modifications were proposed.

ABA therapy focuses on improving communication, social, behavioral, and daily living skills
through individualized, evidence-based therapy provided in one-on-one or small-group sessions
by trained professionals. The services are educational and developmental in nature and do not
involve medical procedures, overnight stays, or disruptive equipment. Based on these operational


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                        8
characteristics, Staff found the proposed use to be appropriately reviewed under the conditional
use category for nursery schools and day care centers in the CR Zoning District.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Mr. Yeh clarified that the building is not single
use, but only one business will operate in it at this time. There were currently no prospective
tenants for the second-floor unit. Staff analysis included a review of the number of employees and
parking requirements. The business will have a maximum of 10 employees, and parking is
primarily for staff only. Parents will park during teacher-facilitated drop-offs and pick-ups.

Commissioner Anderson asked about the daycare designation, as the business is more clinical in
nature. Mr. Yeh reported that Staff had the same considerations. The applicant explained that it
is similar to a traditional daycare, but most of the children have special behavioral needs that
require specific evidence-based treatment. Commissioner Anderson noted that the narrative
specified that therapy would take place. She was in favor of approval but wanted to ensure that
the definition was accurate.

In response to a question, Mr. Yeh reported that the shared parking agreement had not been
submitted but was required prior to issuance of the business license. Mr. Spung stated that for this
type of building, parking is determined based on square footage, and the site was built to
accommodate the parking needs of the structure. In this case, it could be argued that the use
requires less parking than a typical office use but pick-up and drop-off hours will be busy. Chair
Steinman stated that daycares typically have drive aisles that do not block parking and asked if
allowing the use would have a negative impact on the future tenants of the vacant unit. Mr. Spung
clarified that pick-up and drop-off would occur from the designated parking stalls.

Mr. Yeh reported that notice was sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property
and no comments were received. Staff recommended approval of the application with the
following conditions:

       1.      The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business
               license for the duration of the operations.

       2.      All client parking shall be accommodated off-street within the existing property.
               The business shall not rely on on-street parking or adjacent off-property parking
               lots.

       3.      A Building Permit shall be obtained for any exterior signage and other alterations
               to the premises that normally require a building permit.

       4.      Any exterior signage and other exterior alterations will meet the guidelines outlined
               in the Gateway Overlay District (§19.49).

       5.      Approval of this Conditional Use Permit is subject to review or revocation upon
               complaint or evidence of noncompliance with the conditions of approval or
               applicable City codes.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                          9
       6.      Any expansion or change in the scope of the business shall require additional City
               review and approval.

Commissioner Smith asked if the teachers have special training or professional designations. Mr.
Yeh deferred to the applicant on that question. Most of the children have autism.

Commissioner Poulson asked how parents can enter and exit the property smoothly during pick-
up and drop-off, as the parking lot does not allow for a smooth flow of in-out traffic.
Commissioner Anderson stated that she interpreted it as being similar to parking at a store; when
you leave, you back out and exit the same way you came in. Mr. Yeh indicated that the parents
will park, and the next step will be determined by the child’s needs. Chair Steinman stated that he
would share Commissioner Poulson’s concern if it was intended to be more of a drive-through or
if children were allowed to leave the vehicle without an adult.

Commissioner Mills stated that a property owner to the south has over 100 employees who travel
on the same narrow drive from Fort Union Boulevard. It is a difficult area, and he had safety
concerns about the proposal. However, he understood that that may be beyond the Planning
Commission’s scope. Chair Steinman stated that it was a valid point that required additional
information from the applicant. The building was not constructed to serve as a daycare, and there
may be safety concerns with the private right-of-way and potential use for the vacant unit.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Anderson, Chair Steinman stated that the
application indicated four designated parking stalls for the business. Commissioner Anderson
stated that the business could use any of the property’s parking stalls, and the future second-floor
tenant will also be subject to CUP review. Chair Steinman clarified that not all businesses require
a CUP, and they needed to make sure that the proposed use would not potentially harm the overall
use of the site or cause a parking ratio issue. Commissioner Anderson stated that it would be
helpful to know the number of children the clinic will serve, but the overall parking available for
the site may be enough to accommodate two uses.

Commissioner Steinman stated that the service is needed and would be beneficial to the
community, but he wanted to ensure that it would not create a bigger issue that would prevent the
applicant from operating to the best of their ability.

Commissioner Lugo stated that a typical Class C office building would have three to four parking
stalls per 1,000 square feet of space. The applicant, Mark Schik, stated that the four parking stalls
indicated on the application will have signs designating them for their use only. The building has
20 parking stalls, and they have use of all of them. There is no formal shared parking agreement,
but the landlord had indicated that they can utilize the parking stalls on the south side of the
building. He visited the site while the physical therapy business was still operational, and there
were ample open parking stalls even with that use. Parents decide whether a staff member assists
with pick-ups and drop-offs.

In response to a question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Schik clarified that although only four stalls
will have signage, they have the right to 50% of the parking stalls at all times. If an upstairs tenant
occupied more than 50% of the stalls, that would violate the lease agreement. Pick-ups and drop-



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                           10
offs are staggered, with approximately 10 children arriving per hour. Schedules depend on the
child, with some attending for a full day and others for half-days. The space can hold up to 30
children, but they would never arrive within the same one-hour period.

Commissioner Mills asked if Mr. Schik had any safety concerns about parents and children getting
in and out of the parking lot. It shares a right-of-way with Mountain Land Physical Therapy’s
corporate headquarters, and their employees arrive and depart at approximately the same time
every day through the single entrance. Mr. Schik stated that he visited the property multiple times,
and there did not seem to be a heavy flow of traffic at any time of day. They want to protect
parents, children, and staff members. He likes that there are no parking stalls in front of the front
door because parents can pull directly up to the door to drop off their child, turn around in a
designated parking stall, and leave. The additional stalls on the south side will also be helpful.

Chair Steinman inquired about staffing. Mr. Schik reported that staff is scheduled based on the
children’s schedules, but the maximum number of staff members at any time would be
approximately 10. In response to a follow-up question, he stated that staff members will not be
allowed to park in the designated pick-up and drop-off stalls. The landlord had indicated that there
was no official shared parking agreement with the property owner to the south, but there was a
verbal agreement.

Chair Steinman remarked that at a maximum capacity of 10 employees and 10 parents dropping
off or picking up their children, the business may need all 20 parking stalls at the building. He
asked how the applicant could alleviate potential parking issues. Mr. Schik stated that the
scheduling coordinator controls when children arrive and leave, and a maximum of three parents
would arrive at the same time. No therapy is conducted while the parents are present; parents drop
their children off and leave.

In response to a question from Commissioner Lugo, Commissioner Mills stated that most
Mountain Land Physical Therapy employees exit the property through the northern entrance and
turn right toward Interstate 215. Commissioner Lugo agreed with Chair Steinman’s concerns, but
he has worked with several ABA companies, and they provide a much-needed service. His
experience with them had been highly positive, and he hoped to find a solution to the possible
parking challenge.

Mr. Spung reported that daycares and office uses have the same parking demand. The building is
approximately 7,000 square feet, so only 16 total stalls would be required. From a Code
perspective, all parking requirements were met. How the stalls are allotted is at the property
owner’s discretion.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

The Planning Commission discussed their concerns and concluded that they had been addressed.
Chair Steinman encouraged the applicant to obtain a written shared parking agreement prior to
reaching maximum occupancy.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                                         11
Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE CUP-26-003 pursuant to the Conditions of Approval
outlined in the Staff Report dated March 4, 2026. Commissioner Anderson seconded the
motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Smith-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner
Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Lugo-
Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.2    Project CUP-25-005 – The Planning Commission will review on a Conditional
              Use Permit Request to Demolish a Structure located within the Cottonwood
              Paper Mill (“Old Mill”) site.

Chair Steinman reported that the above item was discussed in the Work Session and would be
included on the next three Work Session agendas. The applicant planned to hold open house
meetings with members of the public.

Commissioner Mills moved to TABLE Project CUP-25-005 to the May 6, 2026, Planning
Commission meeting. Commissioner Poulson seconded the motion. The motion passed with
the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of January 21 and February 4, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

Commissioner Anderson moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented.
Commissioner Paulson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Business Meeting. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Meeting adjourned at 7:01 p.m.

The next Planning Commission Meeting was scheduled for April 1, 2026.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                              12
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, March 4, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/04/26                               13
