                                                                              ~~✓--
                                                                              (.@~fn:ood Heights
                                                                                 u,,1,,,.,.,,.,,,,,,,,(1,1,,,."'




Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting IZI   Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                          Denied D Approved ~ Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                          CM Signature: ~



Agendas -Agendas for April 7, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 3/3/2026 and the Mayor
and City Council Retreat on 3/24/26.


CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING

3.0    REPORTS
3a.    Central Wasatch Commission Lindsey Nielsen, Executive Director
3b.    South Valley Chamber Jay Francis, President and CEO
3c.    Health in the Heights Committee Chelsey Voss, Chair
3d.    Legislative Debrief Brian Allen and Chantel Allen


4.0    STAFF REPORTS
4a.    Sapling Sale Update Jim Spung
4b.    Culture Division Update Barbara Higgins
4c.    Annexation Discussion Jared Gerber
CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

4.0    Proclamations
4.1    Proclamation 2026-01
4.2    Proclamation 2026-02

5.0    Action Items
5 .1   Resolution 2026-18
5.2    Resolution 2026-19
5.3    Resolution 2026-20
5.4    Resolution 2026-21
5.5    Resolution 2026-22
                   ~    _.g..1111(.J~ ~        I



                        Cottonwood Heights
                        Ciry bt111Yt11 rht Mll)YIIU




                       AGENDAS

                       April 7, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, April 7, 2026, in the Cottonwood Heights
City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The
public may remotely view the open p01tions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting
to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.      1.     WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.      REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.      REPORTS
                    a. Central Wasatch Commission -Lindsey Nielsen, Executive Director (20
                       min.)
                    b. South Valley Chamber - Jay Francis, President and CEO (20 min.)
                    c. Health in the Heights Committee - Chelsey Voss, Chair (20 min.)
                    d. Legislative Debrief - Brian Allen and Chantel Allen (20 min.)

              4.      STAFF REPORTS
                      (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                      keeping up on the day-to-day activities of the city. This agenda item is set aside to
                      allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                      regarding any changes since the report was made).

                    a. Sapling Sale Update
                        Community and Economic Development Director Jim Spung (I 5 min.)
                    b. Culture Division Update
                        Administrative Services Director Barbara Higgins (20 min.)
                    c. Annexation Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (15 min.)



              5.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                      a. Sapling Sale - Saturday, April 25, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the
                         Parking Lot at City Hall
                      b. Shred Event- Monday, June 1, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside
                         Plaza (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit)
                      c. CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to
                         1:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                      d. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026
     *For more iriformation, please visit CH UTAH GOV and click Community
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED   MEETING  TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDMDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           Ciry between the canyow


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, April 7, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://-www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE -By Invitation

               3.0    CITIZENCOMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code ofOrdinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are submitted timely will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     PROCLAMATIONS
               4.1     Consideration of Proclamation 2026-01 Celebrating Arbor Day
               4.2     Consideration of Proclamation 2026-02 Designating Public Works Week

               s.o     ACTION ITEMS
               5.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-18 Approving and Ratifying a Grant
                       Agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation.
                          (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into a contract
                          whereunder the U.S. Department of Transportation will provide $400,000 in FY
                          2024 "Safe Streets and Roads for All" grant funding to the city, conditioned on
                          the city's provision of $100,000 in matching funds).
                 5.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liaison
                          to the Youth City Council.
                          (By this resolution, the council will approve the appointment of Councilmember
                          Suzanne Hyland as the council's liaison to the Youth City Council.)
                 5.3      Consideration of Resolution 2026-20 Approving Appointments to the
                          Planning Commission.
                          (By this resolution the council will approve the manager's reassignment and
                          appointment ofplanning commissioners Garry Barnes and Rusty Lago due to Mr.
                          Barnes' recent change ofresidence from District 2 to District 3).
                 5.4      Consideration of Resolution 2026-21 Approving an Independent
                          Contractor Agreement for Event Planning and Coordination Services.
                          (This resolution will approve the city's entry into an independent contractor
                          agreement whereunder Ballard Venues LLC will provide event planning and
                          coordination services for the city's 2026 "Butlerville Days" community event
                          scheduled/or 16-18 July 2026).
                 5.5      Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Amending Surplusing Requirements.
                          (This resolution will amend the minimum bid, method ofdetermining minimum bid,
                          and/or minimum bid amount specified in Resolution 2025-68 for a certain surplus
                          1998 International "Command Post" vehicle that has failed to attract acceptable
                          offers at its current price).

                 6.0      CONSENTCALENDAR
                 6.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                          Meetings of February 17, 2026.

                 7.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30. 160 (B)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
     nan1e, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
     minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
     more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for detennining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be detennined by the Council. In the interest of tin1e and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.


On Thursday, March 26th, 2026, a copy ofthe foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy ofthis notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. The agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.c/1.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at http://pmn. wah. g01·.

DATED this 26th day of March 2026                                       Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or recorder(j_1c/1.111ah.go1·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711 .
                               ( ~I''
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      C,ry ill111Ym the r,myom




                MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 3/3/2026 and Mayor and
       City Council Retreat Minutes on 3/24/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEYARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present: Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne
Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present: City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director, Scott
Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City
Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT
Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire
Authority, Riley Pilgrim; Communications Manager, Beatriz Mayorga
                                                       -
1.0    WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, followed by the Citizen Comment Period.

Two Action Items were on the agenda. Item 4.1 was consideration of Resolution 2026-16
Approving an Agreement with Perkins Engineering, lnc. for Engineering Services. City Engineer,
Matt Shipp, reported that the agreement was part of the Community Redevelopment and Renewal
Area ("CDRA") project near 3000 East. CDRA funds need to be expended. Most projects in the
area had been completed, but the-intersection where Big Cottonwood Trail crosses 3000 East can
be imp_roved. The crosswalk is heavily used, and they would like to improve safety by adding
lights, aJ:extured crosswalk, bump-outs, etc. The project will be funded solely through the CDRA.

In response to -a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that they also
considered the mid-block crossing near the hotel, but there were not enough remaining funds for
both crosswalks and the Big Cottonwood Trail crossing is much more heavily used by walkers,
joggers, and cyclists. In response to a follow-up question, he confirmed that funds were available
for both engineering and construction.

Council Member Birrell spoke with the Active Transportation Subcommittee and their preference
was for a raised crosswalk. A median or other way to create visual fiiction would also be
beneficial. Mr. Shipp stated that they were considering all alternatives, but that location is not
ideal for a raised crosswalk because it is at a traffic light. They are also considering a refuge island
and bump-outs. Council Member Birrell recommended that the Active Transportation
Subcommittee be included in discussions related to pedestrian and cyclist safety.

Mayor Bennion stated that she spoke about the project with City Manager, Jared Gerber, and was
happy that the funds were being put to good use.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting M inutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
Council Member Binell asked if CDRA funds could be used to extend the work to smooth the
asphalt on the trail, which stopped east of the traffic light on 3000 East. Mr. Shipp reported that
all work within the CDRA had been completed and funds could not be used for other portions of
the trail.

Item 4.2 was consideration of Resolution 2026-18 Approving an Agreement with the State of Utah
Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo, and Identity. This item was discussed during
Staff Reports.

3.0     REPORTS

        3.1    Ridgecrest Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary Update - Principal Sarah
        Allen.

Ridgecrest Elementary School Principal, Sarah Allen, reported that Canyons School District voted
to close Bella Vista Elementary and consolidafe the two schools at Ridgecrest, which will result
in changes to the school's boundaries and send some students to East Midvale Elementary. The
transition team includes principals of both schools, community councils, parent-teacher
organizations, and leadership teams, and -is working to mitigate concerns and build unity between
the schools.

At the first transition meeting, concerns were expressed over whether the Bella Vista community
would be welcomed ~ Ridgecrest. An open house was held the next week, and she believes it was
a turning point in the transition. The transition team next considered events that can begin to build
unity. Children from Bella Vista have begun attending the Ridgecrest skate nights, and they plan
to have joint after-school picnics dming the year. There will also be a joint talent show on April
17 at 6:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School.

The transition team also discussea possibly renaming or rebranding the school. However, there
was not enough time to renaip.e it by Fall, and the school board was not interested in renaming it.
Instead, they foc;used on what the schools have in common. They share school colors, orange and
blue. Both school mascots are tigers, and next year, Ridgecrest will have both Bella and Reggie
the Tiger as mascots. The school board had proposed rebuilding Ridgecrest, and that may be the
time to rename the school.

Ms. Allen stated that school visitors are frequently confused by the street name. The street in front
of the school is 7200 South, but people think of it as Fort Union Boulevard. She then played a
video prepared by the fifth graders proposing that the name be changed to Tiger Cub Lane. If the
proposal was approved, they hoped to coordinate it with the refresh of the school's branding and
announce it in early Fall.

Council Member Newell appreciated the transition team's efforts in creating unity.

Council Member Birrell stated that when she first heard about Bella Vista closing, her primary
concern was safety. Parents were disappointed that their children would have to travel further to

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     2
school. She volunteered to start a bike bus for children from the north side of Fort Union
Boulevard to safely cross the road and get to school. Ms. Allen stated that buses will be available
for those students, and there had been discussions about providing crossing guards to ensure that
children who bike or walk to school can cross safely.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp stated that a lot of
underlying work is required for an official name change. An honorary name change would be
much easier. Ms. Allen stated that their goal was to officially change the name. They would like
people to understand that 7200 South is not Fort Union Boulevard. Some community members
who live on 7200 South had expressed support, but they had not spoken to everyone. Council
Member Newell asked if the proposal was for the full length of7200 South. Ms. Allen stated that
it cuts off prior to the Target. It is 7205 South on the east side of Highland Drive.

Council Member Newell stated that the costs would need to be researched. He worked on
renaming a shorter street in Salt Lake City. It was not as long, so it was not as expensive to change
signage, addresses, etc. In response to a question from Ms. Allen, he stated that honorary names
are easier because it is only a change to the street signs, not official addresses. Council Member
Hyland stated that an official name change would require all legal documents to be changed to
match the new address, and her preference was for an honorary name. Mr. Shipp stated that he
could research costs, but changing signs was ns>t a barrier. Only a handful of homes front on 7200
South but officially changing the road name would require their banking, mortgage, etc. documents
to be changed. Ms. Allen stated that adding the honorary name to school documents in addition
to signage may help people find the school.

Mayor Bennion stated that as the school is in Council Member Bolton's district, he should speak
to residents who would be affected by the change. She thanked Ms. Allen and the Ridgecrest
Elementary Sch~ol teachers and students for attending.

Mr. Shigp reported that Ridgecrest Elementary had accepted the American Public Works
Association's National Public Works Week invitation and will visit the Public Works building on
May 19 .•_The City Council was welcome to attend.

        3.2     Prevent Child Abuse Utah -Deondra Brown.

Mayor Bennion introduced Deondra Brown from Prevent Child Abuse Utah. Ms. Brown stated
that she is an advocate for victims of crime and protecting children from abuse. She is also a
pianist with the 5 Browns and has a passion for children and the kinds of communities that are
created for them. Ms. Brown's life was shaped by childhood abuse, but her healing and subsequent
advocacy were framed by the people who stepped in later to help shoulder her burden. She has
dedicated her life to preventing abuse and protecting families so they can find the safety, support,
and hope they need.

April is Child Abuse Prevention Month, which represents a shared commitment to keep children
safe and strengthen families. It is about recognizing that children are the most valuable resource,
and strong families are the root of strong communities. The example proclamation that had been
provided in the Staff Repo1i represents values Cottonwood Heights already believes in. Preventing

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     3
abuse takes effort from everyone, and she has seen that prevention works best at the local level.
The sample proclamation was a statement of shared values and responsibility that would fonnalize
Cottonwood Heights' commitment to the safety and wellbeing of its children. By recognizing
April as Child Abuse Prevention Month, the City will affirm that children deserve safe, stable, and
nurturing environments and the City' s leaders stand alongside families in making it possible.

In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, City Attorney, Shane Topham reported that
Proclamation 2020-04 was signed by Mayor Peterson and the City Council and is a continuing
resolution declaring every April Child Abuse Prevention Month. Mayor Bennion stated that she
met with United Fire Authority Chief, Riley Pilgrim and representatives of the Police Department
and learned more about the rate of child abuse in the City and its ties to divorce and other
challenges. She recommended that Child Abuse Prevention Month be recognized in the April
newsletter.

Council Member Birrell stated that she attended a daylong conference on the subject two years
previously. The rate of child sexual abuse is very high. She fully supports building greater
awareness and doing more to prevent child abuse, as children are the foundation of today's society
and tomorrow's leaders.

Ms. Brown stated that it is a child safety issue, and children should be educated in the same way
they learn what law enforcement does. The stigma around discussing child abuse can be removed,
and children and families can know that strengthening families and protecting kids is one of the
City's core values.

Council Member Newell stated that the Health in the Heights Coalition may be able to facilitate
education around the topic. Council Member Hyland remarked that child abuse prevention and
substance use disorder prevention are tied together in strengthening families.

Police Chief, Robby Russo stated that the Police Department has zero tolerance for crimes again
women and children. They have a good relationship with area schools and a great victim advocate
who can help people navigate through the system. In response to his question, Ms. Brown stated
that the ribbons and pins are blue and silver. Mr. Russo stated that he will purchase blue and silver
t-shirts for officers to wear under their uniforms during the month of April. Ms. Allen reported
that Wear Blue Day is April 10.

Mayor Bennion expressed appreciation for the City leaders who chose to declare April Child
Abuse Prevention Month in perpetuity.

        3.3     CHPRD Master Plan Presentation - Lyse Durrant.

Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation District ("CHPRD") Executive Director, Lyse Durrant,
was joined by Patti Hansen and Dennis Magaro. Ms. Dtmant reported that the Cottonwood
Heights Recreation Center Master Plan was updated in 2025. The Master Plan considers how the
60-year-old building can be updated.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     4
An aerial photograph of the Recreation Center and Butler Park was displayed. CHPRD
participates in partnerships and interlocal agreements with the Canyons School Dishict, Salt Lake
County, and Salt Lake City Public Utilities. She then reviewed diagrams of the Recreation Center
for the 1983 and 2011 additions.

The architects recommended a five-phase process for updating the Recreation Center, which was
subsequently narrowed down to two phases.

Phase One: Outdoor Pool Redevelopment:

   •    The pool was built in the early 1980s and has exceeded its service life.
           o The first option would replace the existing pool entirely, reorient it east-west, and
               build a new recreation pool. However, this would remove needed parking and
               cause issues with staging.
           o The second option would repla_ce and reorient the pool but maintain the existing
               recreation pool and amenities.
    •   They hope to apply for Zoo, Arts, and Parks ("ZAP") tax funding for this project once it
        opens for parks. Zap tax fund~ were used to build the dive tank in 2017.

Phase Two: New Recreation Center Gonstruction:

    •   This phase will include all amenities with the exception of the ice 1ink and outdoor pools.
           o Parking lot and entryway
           o Childcare area
           o Indoor aquatic facilities
           o Indoor walking and jogging track
           o Multi-sport courts
           o Open cardio and weight areas
           o Group fitness studios
           o Administration
           o Building support spaces
           o Community and senior center
           o Ice sheet upgrades

Exterior and interior concept drawings were reviewed. Parking would be moved to the south side
of the facility and there would be one enh·ance and an elevator. The building currently has three
entrances, which is hard to staff and maintain. A new maintenance building would also be
constructed on the western portion of the property.

Phase Two would require a general obligation ("GO") bond and was anticipated to begin in
approximately five years. CHPRD was working with McKinstry to determine ways to finance
equipment through utility cost savings. The total cost for both phases was estimated at $88 million.

Council Member Hyland stated that she and Council Member Birrell met with representatives from
Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services who indicated that the model is for the city to own the


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     5
building and the county to conduct the programming. They also explained that the best use of a
Senior Center was to use it for seniors during the day and open it to the community at night. She
appreciated that CHPRD considered that more efficient utilization of the resource in its plan.

4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Communications Strategy/Newsletter Discussion -           City Manager, Jared
                 Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City Council had previously discussed eliminating the printed version
for the newsletter, which would save approximately $69,000 per year. Moving it online would
also allow for more flexible deadlines.

Communications Manager, Beatriz Mayorga reported on current statistics.

      •   Email: 1,029 active email subscribers, with 359 subscribed to only _the newsletter.
          In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Mayorga reported that there
          is no way to track how many subscribers live in the same household.
      •   The open rate on newsletters is 33% on weekends and 35% on weekends. Government
          email open rates are typically between 20% and 23%.
      •   Facebook: 3,561 followers. The March newsletter had 1,800 content views but only 29
          link clicks.
      •   Instagram: 2,986 followers. The March newsletter had 437 views and four link clicks. The
          Instagram story related to the newsletter only had 254 views.
      •   Twitter: 3,403 followers.
      •   Nextdoor: 198 views.
      •   Total combined digital subscribers: Approximately 10,000 residents.

Ms. Mayorga reported that there are a high number of subscribers but low engagement. Women
are more active on the City's social media than men, and the average age is between 30 and 50.
Council Member Hyland stated that the City may have 3,000 followers, but posts will only have
12 likes and one comment. Engagement is drastically lower than in previous years. That is a trend
throughout social media and not specific to Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Newell stated that moving the newsletter to digital delivery only is a good idea,
but the City's residents are a_ccustomed to receiving a hard copy in the mail. He believes it will be
a long transition. Ms. Mayorga stated that she included a blurb in the March newsletter
encouraging residents to subscribe to emails. The City used to broadcast the signup link on social
media but stopped doing so, and she believes they can get more subscribers if they start pushing
that information again.

Mr. Gerber indicated that the website has an optional texting module that costs $18,000 per year
and could be used for both the newsletter and other announcements. A neighboring city uses the
module to send residents a text that says, "The newsletter is ready. Click here to read it."
Fonnatting also has to be considered as the newsletter would need to be mobile friendly. Printed

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     6
copies could be available at City Hall, the library, and community centers. Staff discussed an opt-
in mail version, but that would not decrease costs significantly. There could also be a quarterly
printed version.

Council Member Birrell stated that she did not know how many seniors were signed up for
FlashVote, but an effort should be made to survey residents. She suggested that the newsletter
could be a citizen-driven initiative and the mailed version could be a single black-and-white sheet.
In response to her question, Mr. Gerber clarified that the total yearly cost of $69,000 includes both
printing and mailing costs. Council Member Birrell stated that they should also consider how
much of Ms. Mayorga' s time is spent fonnatting the p1int newsletters because that also has a
monetary value.

Ms. Mayorga stated that the texting option would appeal to more residents as it is more streamlined
and easier to read. She included a small, three-question survey in a 2025 newsletter and only
received 10 responses.

Council Member Hyland stated that her son brought Draper's opt-in texting system to her attention.
They need to be careful not to spam people with information, but texting appeals to people under
40. She hates to increase costs, but the City must keep up with changing communications trends,
and there is no engagement on Facebo()k and Instagram. She believes the texting option should
be considered, as well as moving to a quarterly printed newsletter. Ms. Mayorga stated that they
could work on how much information should be put out in the monthly digital version and would
have the benefit of being able to make last-minute changes. Council Member Birrell brought up
the example of tree care, which was added to the newsletter very quickly. She agreed with Council
Member Hyland's suggestion and noted that it -would provide the transition period Council
Member Newell had referenced. Council Member Newell stated that he likes the idea of going
digital, and the data on how many people decline to opt-in to text messages may be helpful.

In resppnse to a question raised by Mayor Be1mion, Mr. Gerber stated that he would need to obtain
quotes on quarterly physical newsletters as it will differ from monthly costs. Council Member
Hyland stated that Draper's newsletter is double fold, which may be less expensive.

Mr. Gerber reported that depending on the cost savings from the newsletter, he would like the City
Council to consider the SeeClick.Fix app, which can be branded for the City. If someone sees a
pothole or graffiti, for example, they can submit a picture of it that is geotagged and sent to the
c01Tect department. Council Member Hyland stated that it would be a friction point because
residents would be required to download another app. She would like to reduce friction for City
licensing prior to considering another app.

Council Member Hyland stated that the transition timeline should be considered. The City may
need to print the monthly newsletter for one more year and include an announcement each month
that it will be moving to quarterly and encouraging people to sign up for text messages.

        4.2     America 250 Discussion -Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     7
Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, reported on American250 Utah to celebrate
Ame1ica's semi-quincentennial anniversary. Utah's American250 Commission's mission is to
honor our nation's past, celebrate our present, and inspire a future that upholds the values that
define us as a nation and state. They want to hold statewide celebrations and activities and support
cities, communities, and schools. Their goal is to be both inspirational and low-cost, and
participation is free.

Utah America250 has a three-pronged goal to educate, engage, and unite with the following
signature programs:

   •    500 for Our Future is a K-12 Education program_for teachers and parents who homeschool
        their children. Resources can be found on the State website.
   •    Walk250 Utah encourages everyone who can walk or roll in Utah to do 250 miles in 2026.
        Residents can log their miles on the website. Ms. Higgins passed the information on to the
        Employee Wellness Council, but it would also be great for the Health in the Heights
        Coalition.
    •   Exploring the Declaration at 250 Speaker Series will be a series of presentations about
        America's history. PBS will be uploading those presentations onto their Y ouTube channel.
    •   "The Pen is Mightier" Exhibit about the w1iting of the Constitution will be at the State
        Capitol all year. A mobile exhibit will also be visiting each county in Utah.
    •   Serving a Common Cause encourages everyone in Utah to do service projects. Anyone
        with at least five hours of service can log their time on to the State website and will receive
        a certificate from Lieutenant Governor Henderson. You can also nominate another person.
    •   America's Potluck will be held on Sunday, July 5. Utah led the initiative, and to date 49
        states and Puerto Rico had joined. Residents can pin their potluck on the State website and
        either mark it as private or share the location for others to join.
    •   Free Sticker sheets are available at all libraries and Zions Bank branches.

Ms. Higgins reported that Mr. Top11am had drafted a resolution and licensing agreement for
America250 Utah. If the City Council chose to sign the agreement, Cottonwood Heights would
receive its own America250 Utah Cottonwood Heights logo use at no charge. Some cities are
selling shirts and other merchandise, and it can also be put on letterhead or electronic signatures.

Council Member Hyland stated that she read the agreement and thought it was very generous.
There is no cost to the City_, and the State's only request is that the logo not be altered. She would
like the America's Potluck to be promoted in the newsletter. People should be encouraged to reach
out and create the neighborhood feel that they long for. Council Member Newell stated that there
are large July 4 breakfasts every year that could affect attendance, although people could choose
to do both. Council Member Hyland stated that her community is talking about the potluck
because it is such a special celebration.

Ms. Higgins suggested that the City could hold an America250 student essay contest with the City
Council voting on the winners. Mayor Bennion stated that she heard about America250 Utah at
the Council of Mayors meeting, and she appreciated Staff for working quickly on the agreements.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     8
5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit - Monday, February 20 to
                Monday, March 18, 2026.
        5.2     The Jazz Ambassadors of the US Army Field Band - Thursday, March 19
                from 7:00 PM to 8:30 PM at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free
                event, See City website for additional information).

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Highland. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:25 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                     9
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
RENEWAL AGENCY ("CDRA") BUSINESS MEETING HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3,
2026, AT 5:30 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL ROOM
LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:            Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                    Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:      City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                    Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                    Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                    Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                    Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire
                    Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0       WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 5:34 PM.

2.0       DISCUSSION

          2.1    Town Center Open Space Discussion - City Manager Jared Gerber I CED
                 Director Jim Spung.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that representatives of Onyx and Thrive were present to hear
the City Council's feeclback and answer any questions. Their intent was to understand the
Council's vision for the two acres of open space at the Town Center so they can begin working on
its design.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, distributed a list of key
considerations for the discussion. The Concept Plan for the Town Center encompasses 4.97 acres
of retail and office space, 2.10 acres of open space, and 4.20 acres of residential. The initial
concept included a covered stage or perfonnance space, a flex area to accommodate events like
farmers' markets or yoga, a pedestrian pathway, and a slope up to the residential area.

Mr. Spung reviewed aerial images of the City's parks and their size in relation to the Town Center
open space. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, he clarified that no
parking was included in the open space calculation. He then reviewed photographs of Belmar
Square in Lakewood, Colorado, which was part of a shopping mall that the City demolished and
turned into a mixed-use town center.

Key considerations include:

      •   Clear purpose
             o What is the primary role of the space?


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     10
            o is it intended to function as a daily civic "living" room, an event venue, or a hyb1id?
           o How should it reflect Cottonwood Heights' identity and character?
    •   Programming and activation
           o Any successful open space is the result of its programming and design
           o Will there be dedicated funding and staffing for ongoing events?
            o How frequently should the space be programmed?
            o What infrastructure is needed to support regular activation?
    •   Flexibility within a limited footprint
            o How to balance lawn, plaza, and landscaped areas?
            o Are features multi-use or single-purpose?
    •   Year-round comfort and safety
            o Shade in summer and usability and winter
    •   Maintenance and long-tenn costs
            o What are the life cycles of proposed features or amenities?
            o Staffing and maintenance costs
    •   Connectivity and economic impact
           o The programming can be restaurants and other attractions, but it is important to
                contribute to those businesses' success and not deh·act from it
    •   Phasing and adaptability
            o Are there features that could be included at a later time?
            o How is the space adapted over time?

Mr. Spung reported that the handout included a list of design ideas that were provided by the City
Council and citizen _groups. He encouraged the Council to review the list and give feedback on
what they would like to see in the space. The space is only slightly more than two acres and a lot
of ideas were provided:--

Council Member Newell stated that it was important to be able to fence the space in to control
entry for special events; for example, a beer garden or barbeque festival. Mr. Gerber indicated
that different fence designs had been discussed.

Council Member Hyland had observed that what becomes familiar becomes boring and not as
highly utilized as things that change. She would prefer a flexible event space to capture that
element of novelty. The Town Center is not accessible from the interstate, so people must be
enticed to visit. The co-mmittee wanted a monument or other feature that reflects Cottonwood
Heights. For example, if the 01d Mill is demolished, components of the mill could be put on
display. Council Member Hyland asked about the grade limitations. It was noted that the grade
will be advantageous near the townhomes because it will allow for tuck-under garages. The event
area will be flat, and there will be a slope to the residential area. It could be terraced or used for
activities like sledding. The design team's intent was to incorporate the grade, not fight against it.

Mr. Spung stated that one consideration is how the space interacts with and complements what
surrounds it. If there is a stage in the center of the open space, they will need to consider noise
and other impacts on residents. However, by designing the entire site at once, mitigations can be
built in to help dampen the effects of sound, light, traffic, etc.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     11
Council Member Hyland remarked that there is a lot of competition for farmers' markets, and she
was not sure that Cottonwood Heights could win because nearby cities host markets in bigger
spaces. However, pop-up markets with vendor booths like you see at City block parties should be
accommodated. There is a desire for a stage, but she was concerned about how often it will be
utilized. Mr. Gerber reported that one reason a stage is being considered is the potential availability
of funding for Olympic viewing events. It could be a multi-use platform rather than a dedicated
stage.

Council Member Birrell stated that when the Town Center was initially conceptualized, the intent
was to create a place where people could socialize with a view of the mountains, but the Concept
Plan had the buildings, parking lot, and stage oriented toward the northwest rather than the
mountains. Initial discussions pointed to having no roadways in the Town Center. She believes
residents may feel that the open space is a courtyard for residents of the townhomes, and the
concept did not activate the street or welcome people from Fort Union Boulevard. It needs to have
a local feel, but the idea of it being a regional attraction has developed over the last few years.
She believes citizens should be surveyed as she wants to ensure that the Town Center is what they
want rather than an event space that draws people from the freeway. Council Member Hyland
stated that the ideas were not mutually exclusive. However, she agreed that the concept may be
oriented in the wrong direction.

Council Member Birrell stated that everything must be tied to the financial reality of how far the
$30 million could stretch. Most of the parking is supposed to be underground for aesthetic reasons,
but she does not know how that can be accomplished within the budget. She believes the project
should be put out to bid to better understand costs and determine if underground parking at a cost
of $40,000 per stall is feasible. Representatives from Onyx and Thrive agreed that the economics
must work. The Concept Plan was based on the request for proposals ("RFP"), but it could be
changed based on the Council's feedback.

Council Member Birrell stated that she believes the open space should be seen from Fort Union
Boulevard, feel open and welcoming, and be oriented toward the mountains. She has never wanted
asphalt in the space. Council Member Hyland stated that it is hard to make everyone's dreams
come true, and two acres is not much space. They need to determine how to get the best bang for
the City's buck. Council Member Birrell stated that she initially believed one-third of the space
would be for the public. Mr. S-pung stated that what he heard was that Council Member Birrell
would like to potentially integrate some linear park features that connect to the roadways and draw
people in, as well as create a view corridor. That could be accomplished by removing or
reallocating retail space.

Mayor Bennion reminded the Council that their focus was on what they would like to see in the
two acres of open space. Mr. Spung added that specific information would drive both the design
and cost. Once the Council has an ideal scenario for what they would like to see in the space, the
design team can determine how to make that work in the space.

Council Member Newell stated that he likes the slope because people can sit on it for concerts and
everyone will have a view of the stage. He appreciates that the space is contained so events can

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     12
be controlled but also has the flexibility to be opened up. He likes the idea of the stage because
people having dinner at the restaurants or walking along the sidewalks will hear what is happening
there and it will add to their experience.

Mayor Bennion was also in favor of the stage. Residents had suggested that local youth could use
it to make music when it is not booked for events. The area could be very hot in the summer, so
there needs to be a way to shade it. A resident also suggested that the slope could be used for a
community feature like an alpine slide. Another suggestion was to provide tables for people to
bring their own food and eat together at the Town Center. Council Member Birrell stated that that
would be more inclusive as everyone will not be able to afford to patronize the restaurants.

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Council Member Newell stated that he
envisioned permanent fencing that could be opened. ~An event like a beer garden would require
that the area be closed off. Council Member J3inell remarked that temporary fencing could
accomplish that goal. Mr. Spung stated that retractable fencing may be an option.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Visioning Committee did a great job, but they were not
given any parameters. She asked the design team to speak to how two acres of land can be
successfully utilized as community s_pace. A design team representative indicated that it was
helpful to receive the Council 's feedback so they know what to design. The meeting was very
helpful to understand what they want and how they envision the space. They can then work on a
design that hopefully meets the Council's goals.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Council Member Birrell stated that
Carmel, Indiana had a winter market with an ice-skating rink and seating kiosks. It was well-
landscaped and had grand buildings in the background. The area was approximately three acres.
She and Randy Whitehead visited the city three years previously. Mr. Whitehead stated that it was
designed in such a way that residents wanted to go there frequently. It was flexible enough to hold
major events and farmers markets and became a draw in and of itself. It was open and easy to get
to. He believes that residents were Jed to expect a view of the mountains that are featured in the
Cottonwood Heights logo, open trails, and areas for families to sit down and enjoy each other's
company. The key was to build a sense of community and create a place residents can take pride
in. He did not believe that the area shown in the Concept Plan would create a sense of belonging,
provide a view of the mountains, or encourage residents to visit the Town Center.

Council Member Hyland asked about the specific things that brought people to the Cannel town
center on a daily basis but also allowed flexibility for events. The Town Center does not need a
splash pad or ice rink because the City already has those. Mr. Whitehead stated that the
information that was passed out included a list of items residents indicated they wanted. Council
Member Hyland noted that the list was based on the committee's priorities with some feedback
from some residents. Mr. Whitehead stated that the co1mnittee worked off of the residents'
requirements to create the list of ideas. Mayor Bennion remarked that residents have expressed
the desire for some items that were included in the list of previous design ideas like an alpine slide,
shade, and a dedicated space for teenagers.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     13
Mayor Bennion stated that the current concept looked very walled off. It is hard to design around
the property's limitations, but it looked like a f01tress. She believes the Council needs to think
about how they can support the design team in opening up the space while being mindful of the
City's financial goals. Council Member Birrell stated that she did not intend to react negatively to
the idea of fences, but the idea was for the space to feel very open. She has consulted with people
who were involved in projects for other cities, and they indicated that it is important to ensure that
the Town Center is designed for the public if it has been. bonded for.

Council Member Hyland stated that she believes part of the confusion came from pushing form-
based code, which puts the buildings on the street and parking behind them. Council Member
Birrell indicated that form-based code allows for activation and a Main Street feel like cities had
150 years ago. Council Member Hyland stated that the City Council needed to determine its
highest priorities given the realities and limitations of the open space. She would love for it to be
oriented toward the mountains but that may not be possible due to the grade.

Mr. Gerber stated that the Council needed to consider how to keep the project feasible so that it
can and will be developed. Mr. Spung added that ongoing maintenance and logistical support
should also be considered. It is great to have an event venue, but someone must coordinate, staff,
and pay for the events. It is a great aspirational goal, but the City may not be ready to commit to
a permanent facility at the onset.
                                                      -

A question was raised about what amenities the Council was certain it did not want. It had been
indicated that there is a splash pad and ice rink elsewhere in the ·city, but the advisory committee
specifically asked for splash pads, playgrounds, and parks. The design team needed more specific
direction on the central amenity because it would be maintained by the City, not the developer,
and its final design would affect the rest of the Town Center. Increasing the open space would
change the economic outlook for the development~ _which may or may not benefit the City. Once
a solid direction is determined, the next step would be to contract an expert to design the space.

The prbposed list of amenities was reviewed. It was determined that a dog park should be crossed
off the list, and space for re~lar events like arts festivals should be retained.

Council Member Hyland read the following from the list provided by the Advisory Committee:

    •   A central gathering space large enough to old regular scheduled events such as a farmers
        market on Saturdays, a-large Christmas market in the winter, and any other events.
    •   A gathering space can be designed in such a way to be expandable on demand. Roads can
        be closed off and other existing amenity areas can be incorporated to make a much larger
        space.
    •   Landscaped walking paths.
    •   An area for performances.
    •   The gathering space should have the necessary infrastructure for events: electricity, water,
        sound.
    •   It needs to be a place where people of all ages want to go.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     14
Council Member Hyland stated that Carmel, Indiana was a very inspirational place for the
committee and recommended that the design team consider what is novel about their town center.
She did not want another park, and she wanted to take advantage of the mountains. In response to
a question, Council Member Hyland clarified that residents do not want a playground area or grass
park. Mayor Bennion asked if the Council was in favor of a band area where perhaps people can
sit on the hill and listen. Council Member Newell commented that events could be held in the
same area. Mr. Gerber expressed concern about trying to fit 25 items on two acres. Council
Member Hyland stated that the list also includes recommendations about the retail area and street
activation.



Photographs of the Carmel, Indiana town center were displayed and discussed. Council Member
Birrell stated that it had beautiful landscaping and planters. She recommended that the stage be
round so people can sit around it.

Mr. Whitehead stated that Carmel sets up a pavilion for its Christmas market~and the space is very
flexible. It is not elaborate, but it was consciously built to be what they needed. He does not
believe the space needs to cost a lot -of money if it is thoughtfully planned. He indicated that
Cannel city staff would be happy to discuss what they did and how they manage it. He does not
believe the City needs to choose between commercial development and doing something
meaningful for residents. They can open up space between buildings so it flows better and people
can see the mountains. Elevation is a crucial component. Council Member Birrell stated that there
are companies that use drones to determine what the view will be based on different design
elements. Council MeJnber Hylan_d stated that the elevation change is a legitimate constraint.

Mr. Whitehead reported that the comm_ittee spent months coming up with ideas that they felt make
sense. The original consultants indicated that their expectations could not be realized because
doing so would require a $30 million bond, and residents then voted that they were willing to pay
$30 million.

Mr. Spung noted that it can be difficult to visualize how the space will look and function. A good
next step would _b e to conduct a visual survey to help guide the conversation. It was requested that
the list be p1ioritized to provide specific guidance to the design team.

Mayor Bennion referr-ed to the original list of ideas and asked the Council's opinions on the
suggestion for senior citizen dance nights. Council Member Newell stated that he had no issues
with the idea. Council Member Birrell stated that her hometown had bands and local talent play
weekly, and Cottonwood Heights could do something similar. It would be low cost and promote
local talent, and they could consider hosting more professional events at a later time.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     15
3.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the CDRA Meeting and move into a
Closed Session to discuss the Purchase of Real Property. The motion was seconded by Board
Member Hyland. The motion passed unanimously.

The CDRA was in Closed Session from 6:40 p.m. to 6:59 p.m.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
    The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The
    Agency's secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board
    members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to
    the secretary. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft ofthe minutes to the Board
    members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no corrections to
    the draft minutes are received within the three business days review period, whereupon
    that draft o(the minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of
    the meeting.

5.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The CDRA Meeting adjourned at 6:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026     Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     16
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:              Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                      Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                      Newell

Staff Present:        City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                      Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Administrative Services
                      Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and
                      Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public
                      Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                      Pilgrim

1.0      WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills provided updates on Whitmore Library events for March. Preschool story times are
Monday;"Iuesday, and Th!!rsday at 10: 15 a.m. The puppet theater show will be on Friday, March
13. The Seed Library will open on Friday, March 20. An early-learning event will be held at the
Salt Lake County Library's Viridian Event Center on Saturday, March 21, from 10:00 a.m. to
12:00 p.m. The Kim C. Gardner Policy Institute released a study on early childhood literacy in
January, and Governor Cox then held a symposium on the topic. Libraries play a large role in that.
The Whitmore Library's preschool story times model an activity parents can do at home. The
finger plays are often repeated at home, and repetition is a key component of early learning. If
they cannot attend in person, parents can join story times via Zoom on the library website. The
"1,000 Books before Kindergarten" program is also a great way to prepare children for school.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     17
4.0    ACTION ITEMS

       4.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-16 Approving an Agreement with Perkins
               Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. (By this Resolution, the Council
               will Approve the City's Entry into an Independent Contractor Agreement
               whereunder Perkins Engineering, Inc. will provide engineering and related
               services in connection with the City's planned construction or reconstruction
               of an East/West crossing on the North side of the 3000 East and Cottonwood
               Parkway signalized intersection, to coincide with the existing Big Cottonwood
               Canyon Trail under City's Proiect No. 006.26).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discus_sed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-16 Approving an
Agreement with Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. The motion was seconded
by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

       4.2      Consideration of Resolutioa2026-17 Approving an Agreement with the State
                of Utah Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo and Identity. (By
                this Resolution, the Council will recognize the "Cottonwood Heights Utah 250
                Community Committee" and Approve an Agreement with the Utah Department
                of Cultural and Community Engagement to coordinate the City's use of the
                "America250" name, logo and brand identity in connection with our nation's
                upcominf{ 250th anniversary).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Council Member Birrell thanked Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins and Staff for
bringing the agreement to the City Council. It is a great year to celebrate the country's semi-
quincentennial.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-17 Approving an
Agreement with the State of Utah Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo and Identity.
The motion was seconded ~y Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-
Yes; Council Member New~ll-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes;
Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        CONSENT CALENDAR

        5.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of February 17, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of February 17, 2026. The motion was seconded by Council

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     18
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

Mayor Bennion reported that the March 17, 2026, City Council meeting was cancelled as it is
Caucus night and the Council wants citizens to be able to attend caucus meetings.

6.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:09 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     19
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session, CDRA, and Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, March 3, 2026.


TerL Forbe.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     20
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL RETREAT HELD
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2026, AT 2:00 P.M. IN THE CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM AT
CITY HALL LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS, UT 84121.

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn E. Newell, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Assistant Police
                         Chief, Chris McHugh; Community and Economic Development Director,
                         Jim Spung; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Public Works Director, Matt Shipp

Public:                  Consultant Kerri Nakamura, Audrey Pines, Eva Chan

1.      Welcome

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the meeting to order at fipproximately 2:00 p.m.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, expressed his appreciation for the Citizen Budget Committee's efforts
but noted that the budgeting process was behind. It was important to find answers at the meeting
so Staff could move forward with the preliminary budget that must be adopted in May 2026. He
asked the City Council to focus _on high-level que~tions regarding revenues and budget cuts.

2.        Fiscal Year 2027 Preliminary Budget Guidance for Staff.

          a.     Historical Budgeting Model Overview.
          b.     Funcl Balance Overview and Determination.
          c.     FY 2027 Needs and Requests.
          d.     Parks and Recreation Services.
          e.     Employee Compensation.
          f.     Revenue and Cuts Considerations.
          g.     Possible Property Tax Increase.
          h.     Future-Fiscal Planning.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reported that some of the reports they would be reviewing will be
developed with the Citizen Budget Committee. He then reviewed the Fiscal Year ("FY") 2019-
2025 budget data, including original, adjusted, and actual numbers. Budgets are adjusted for a
variety of reasons, primarily for one-time reimbursable police overtime expenses and grants.
When creating the budget for a new year, they typically first look at the 01iginal adopted budget
and make adjustments based on that number to ensure that these one-time expenses are not canied
over.




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
Department-level expenses were separated by salary and benefits and operational expenses, with
a grand total and full-time equivalent ("FTE") employee count for each department. Mr. Jurges
noted that FTEs were hand-counted as the City's accounting software does not have that capability.
                                                                 /


Mr. Jurges reviewed changes to the total General Fund expenses throughout the study period.
FTEs had only increased by 7.9, primarily because some employees were moved to other funds.
Additions include two Public Works Department employees hired to perfonn engineering services
that were previously contracted out. Three police officers had been hired for traction control,
which has an associated revenue offset. In that same period, salary and benefits expenses increased
by 57%. Budget Committee Member Evan Chan calculated the actual percentage to be 50%,
which is higher than the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") for the time period of 30%. However,
Cottonwood Heights salaries are still below market, which puts the City at a disadvantage and
increases the potential of losing employees.

Operational expenses had only increased by 25.3% due to department heads' efforts to be as
efficient as possible. Transfers from the General Fund to the Roads Capital Improvement Fund
had increased slightly from $1 .4 million to $2 million. With the exception of an additional
$200,000 transfer to the Storm Water Fund, all other transfer increases were related to debts
incurred. Total expenses had increased
                                    -      by approximately-
                                                               $10 million since FY 2018-2019,
approximately $3 million in debt service and transfers, and $7 million in true increases in budgeted
expenditures.

Mr. Jurges reminded the Council that costs had increased exponentially. An item that cost $100
three years ago now costs $115 or $120, so the $2 million in roads funds does not go as far as it
once did, but roads still need to be maintained~ Other fund data was included in the report, but
they were all dependent on the General Fund. - -

Council Member Hyland asked about h·ansfers from the General Fund. Mr. Jurges reported that
the Debt Service Fund is fully sourced by the General Fund. Approximately $2 million is
transferred into the Capital Projects Fund, as we11 as occasional grants that are first deposited into
the General Fund. The Storm Water Fund receives $200,000 in transfers, but that transfer could
be replaced with an increased Storm Water Fee. Council Member Hyland stated that the General
Obligation ("GO'') Bond debt service is supported by property taxes. Mr. Jurges clarified that the
monies are first deposited in the General Fund and then transferred to the Debt Service Fund.

In response to a follow-up question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges reported that the
City will receive approximately $240,000 per year in lease payments from Walgreens. The project
was currently part of the Community Development and Renewal Agency ("CDRA") Fund, but the
City Council could make the decision to transfer that revenue into the General Fund to offset
expenditures or retain it in the CDRA Fund to offset future costs of the Town Center project.
Council Member Hyland remarked that residents were told the bond would be supported by tax
revenue, and retaining the revenue in the CDRA Fund would go against that promise.

In response to a question from Council Member Newell, Mr. Jurges confirmed that the moneys
could be split between the two funds . Council Member Holton stated that the Council needed to
consider how each decision will affect a potential tax increase.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _

                                                      2
Council Member Hyland stated that fees are often demonized, but she now understands the need.
There are properties in the City that do not pay property taxes but do place a burden on the
stonnwater system, for example. The Storm Water Fee fairly ensures that those properties pay for
City services. If the fee needs to be increased to match expenses so no General Fund transfer is
needed, that is a legitimate discussion. Transfers to the Stonn Water Fund and the Walgreens lease
payments represent $440,000 in found revenue. Council Member Birrell agreed with Council
Member Hyland. She believed it was important to speak in distinctions. The City has taken on a
great deal of debt and needs to live up to the promises that were made on the GO Bond.

Council Member Hyland stated that she and Mayor Bennion participated in the Citizen Budget
Committee, and she had emailed the Council about key takeaways from the meetings. The
Committee had a clear message to tighten the City's belt, balance the budget, and implement long-
term policies to prevent it from happening again. Cottonwood Heights had increased property
taxes once in the 21 years since incorporation, but the City was now in a position that a resident
described as a gut punch. That resident asked why taxes were not increased more gently so citizens
could incorporate it into their own budgets, which was a reasonable question. The takeaways from
the committee included tightening the budget wherever possible, not offering premium services,
and enacting a modest tax increase to ~arry the City over until the Town Center and Gravel Pit
begin generating revenue.

Council Member Birrell appreciated the historical tax rate comparison provided by Mr. Jurges.
Since 2007, comparable cities have increased taxes considerably. West Valley City has
implemented increases totaling 71%, Murray 68%, Midvale over 100%, Holladay 69%, Draper
82%, and Bluffdale 66%. Cottonwood Heights had an approximately 15% increase. Costs have
increased dramatically post-COVID. In hindsight, she would have enacted a smaller yearly
increase, but the City Council did not choose to do so. The data indicated that it would not be
unique for Cottonwood Heights to enact a tax increase.

Council Member Newell stated that he and Council Member Birrell brought up a tax increase when
they were first elected, but it was not well-received by the rest of the City Council. However, he
did not want to compare Cottonwood Heights to other cities but rather to develop a plan that would
work for the City. Cottonwood Heights is a unique municipality with a shifting population, and
the economy outside of the city is impacting residents. He agreed with Council Member Hyland
that it is important to look at fees that will close the gap for people who are utilizing City services
but not paying property taxes. He asked for an update on cuts that had already been enacted.

Mr. Gerber reported that changes had been made to the Culture Division, Butlerville Days, and the
parade. Between those and other changes, approximately $55,000 in savings had been realized.
Other potential changes included:

    •   If the Storm Water Fund transfer was replaced with a fee increase, that would be an
        additional savings, but Staff would need direction to do so. Similar to the Capital Projects
        Fund, the Stonn Water Fund is woefully underfunded.
    •   Cutting cable television services would result in a savings of $6,500.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      3
    •   The Council had discussed cuts to the newsletter but decided not to enact those at this time.
        However, Staff was still considering ways to decrease that expense.
    •   Cancelling all sustainability and small business events would save approximately $23,000.
    •   Reducing the City's lobbying from two finns to one would save approximately $38,000.
    •   If the City Council only attends Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT") events and
        all other training and travel is cut, that will save approximately $40,000. Council Member
        Hyland remarked that the Council had not utilized the full training and h·avel budget. Mr.
        Gerber confinned that savings are taken into account during the budgeting process.
        However, the amount of savings the City realizes on various line items decreases year over
        year as they try to provide the same level of service without accounting for inflation.
    •   Cuts to professional services would result in a savings of $45,000. The line item is typically
        under budget, but cuts may impact the City's a~ility to react to unforeseen events.
    •   If training was cut to the minimum required for certifications, it would save $12,000.
    •   Parks maintenance could be cut by $60,000. However, doing so would remove the match
        for the Tourism, Recreation, Culture, a!fd Convention ("TRCC") grant.

Council Member Newell asked about the operational impacts of the potential cuts.

Mayor Bennion stated that items like the newsletter need more discussion. People have indicated
on social media that they appreciate the printed newsletter. Cottonwood Heights is an older city,
and less of its population is online. The newsletter is a consistent way to reach them. She was not
in favor of halting transfers to the Storm Water Fund because if the infrastructure issues are not
addressed, more damage will be caused and it will cost more to repair. Council Member Hyland
stated that the Stonn Water Fee should be increased to make it a self-sustaining fund rather than
transferring monies from the General Fund. Council Member Newell agreed.

Council Member Holton stated that cuts should not be enacted that will cause a greater financial
impact i_n the future. Regarding the newsletter, he sees value in it, but the City was also in a unique
position. Cuts can be temporary, and he was not afraid to make changes because adjustments can
be made if necessary. If the City Council was going to ask people to pay more taxes, they needed
to show that they were willing to make big changes.

Mr. Gerber reminded the Council that the changes they had discussed thus far did not affect
staffing. To make up for the $~.7 million deficit, each department would have to cut 15%. Staff
needed direction on any revenue increases and specific areas to cut so they could determine how
to best serve the City within those parameters.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Gerber clarified that the $2. 7 million
figure was the amount that was budgeted to be transferred from reserves to cover expenses for the
current fiscal year, and the amount had increased yearly for the past five years. Council Member
Holton stated that he had heard about past salary freezes. Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated that
Cottonwood Heights has always found money to pay its employees, even in 2008 when other cities
instituted furloughs and freezes. Mr. Jurges stated that the City skipped a Cost-of Living
("COLA") increase one year but made up for it in the following year. Mayor Bennion remarked
that turnover was 25% in 2025, which is very costly.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
Council Member Hyland suggested that the Council should agree on a minimum Fund balance.
Holladay's policy is to have a minimum of 15% with the goal of increasing it to 35% in surplus
years. That would equate to a minimum of $4.4 million for Cottonwood Heights. The City cannot
continue to dip into reserves to cover operational expenses. It may have been a mistake to use
one-time monies in that way. Mr. Jurges indicated that the projected ending fund balance for FY
2026 is approximately $4 million, or 12% to 15% range. Mr. Gerber added that if no changes were
made, an additional $3 million would be required for FY 2027. Council Member Hyland remarked
that because the City used one-time monies to cover operational expenses during the pandemic,
residents believe it can deliver services at a lower rate than it can. The City Council needed to
commit to better processes for future fiscal planning.

Mayor Bennion stated that setting better policies was a recommendation of the Citizen Budget
Committee, as was making the committee pennanent. -council Member Holton stated that City
Council Members all have different backgrounds and expertise, and it is beneficial to have the
opinions of residents who are experts in bucl.getary issues. He was in favor of retaining the
committee moving forward. Council Member Newell agreed that the committee is helpful in an
advisory capacity.

Council Member Hyland stated that it _would be helpful for committee members to have experience
in municipal budgeting because it is very different from private budgeting. Council Member
Birrell disagreed, as she did not believe that level of specificity should be required. She believes
each Council Member should appoint two members to the committee. Council Member Hyland
and Council Member Newell were not in favor of individual members making appointments, as it
should be a Council decision, although each district should be represented.

Mayor Bennion indicated that the details could be worked out at a later time, but the Council was
in agreement that the Citizen Budget Committee should continue, and each member must be well-
qualified. She noted that some of the most helpful committee members did not have municipal
budgeti~g experience, but their skills and perspectives were very helpful. She recommended that
Mr. Jurges--_review applications and be part of the selection process. Whether Council Members
should continue to serve on the committee was discussed.

Council Member Birrell remarked that the Citizen Budget Committee also recommended that the
City have five-year projections. Mr. Gerber stated that it should be a five-year strategic plan that
outlines what the Council wants to accomplish and how it will accomplish them. If goals change,
the plan can be amended, as it is a living document. Council Member Holton stated that the
financial philosophy mentioned by Council Member Hyland would also be part of the five-year
plan. Council Member Newell recommended a three-year plan, as too much can change in five
years. Mr. Gerber clarified that broader goals can be included for years four and five.

Council Member Hyland stated that the committee recommended the City clarify its financial
philosophy. Consultant Kerri Nakamura mentioned that including narratives in the budget will
increase transparency for residents, and Cottonwood Heights could do a better job of explaining
budget policies so citizens with no budget background can read and understand them. Council


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
Member Newell agreed that the messaging is critical, and the narratives need to be written in a
way people can understand.

Council Member Hyland noted that Citizen Budget Committee Member, Eva Chan, recommended
the City have data points to help in yearly decision-making, including benchmarks like debt-to-
asset ratios. That would be helpful in recognizing trends. Holladay clarified its policies in 2025.
For example, they first dete1mine whether the City would fund a project on its own and use it as a
barometer to determine whether they will engage in a specific type of spending before they
consider grants or other funding. They also have a policy about how conservative they will be
with budgeting. She prefers that type of specificity that does not tie the Council's hands but
provides guidance on how certain things will be done. Mr. Gerber reported that he and
Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, were working to draft policies.

Council Member Birrell stated that the City needs to be careful with grants because even the
matching portion can be a burden on a city of Cottonwood Heights' size. It is one thing to acquire
a new building, but it must then be insured, maintained, and operated. She was in favor of
guardrails that will help future City Councils understand what they are getting into and keep the
focus on health, safety, and taking care of the City's current infrastructure.

Council Member Hyland read the Holladay maintenance-policy and noted that there were multiple
examples of similar common-sense policies. She does not want to increase taxes, but the City's
crumbling infrastructure must be addressed. Cottonwood Heights is an old city, and it must pay
to maintain its infrastructure.

Council Member Birrell stated that Impact Fee revenues had decreased dramatically since 2007.
Mr. Gerber explained that Impact Fees can only be charged on new growth and only be used for
new infrastructure. There had not been a lot of new growth in the City. There is also a time limit
on spending those funds; any funds not used within seven years must be returned. Council Member
Birrell stated that there was an ongoing problem in Pepper's Hill on the north side of Creek Road
that, to !J-er understanding, was related to development in the area. She does not agree with the
idea thaf Cottonwood Heights is built out, as there are a lot of projects in process, and the City
needs to ensure that those developments bear the associated infrastructure costs. Mr. Jurges
explained that there must be a valid need to charge an hnpact Fee. They cannot pay for
maintenance or upgrades to existing infrastructure unless capacity is increased.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung stated that one challenge is that in
order to charge Impact Fees, the City would need a Capital Improvements Plan, and that fund
would need to be maintained. If the City does not collect enough fees, those administrative costs
will not be offset. He believes the Gravel Pit is the only area of the City where hnpact Fees may
make sense. The developer pays 100% of initial infrastructure costs, but Impact Fees would cover
off-site improvements.

Council Member Birrell asked if traffic impacts from the large apartment complex in northwestern
Cottonwood Heights would make the project Impact Fee eligible to upgrade intersections in the
area. Mr. Spung stated that a traffic study would be required as part of the entitlement process,
and the developer would bear the cost of any reco1mnended upgrades or improvements. Council

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      6
Member Birrell stated that people who live near the Old Mill are very concerned about impacts
from that development. Mr. Jurges reported that no infrastructure changes were required in the
area, so there was no valid need for Impact Fees from that development.

Council Member Newell stated that a decision should be made on the Storm Water Fee. The fee
automatically increases by 3% each year, and larger properties pay more through the Equivalent
Residential Unit ("ERU") price structure. Council Member Hyland stated that it could be
increased by more than 3% to cover eliminating the $200,000 transfer from the General Fund. In
response to a question, Mr. Jurges indicated that the necessary percentage would need to be
calculated. Council Member Holton stated that the solution would simply maintain and asked if
that would be enough to address the City's stormwater issue. Council Member Binell was in favor
of increasing the fee as long as it is increased proportionally.

Mr. Gerber reported that the cunent revenue of $1.6 million is not enough to maintain the
infrastructure and perform necessary upgrades.~The initial fee was set lower than the City could
justifiably charge. Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, stated that the Storm Water Master Plan
study was recently completed, and tens of mil1ions of dollars in repairs and modifications were
required over the next five to 10 years. Every stormwater project that had been completed to date
was due to an emergency, and they had been unable to begin taking a proactive approach.

Council Member Holton stated that increasing the fee with the goal of eliminating the transfer
from the General Fund was a separate discussion from increasing the fee to the level at which the
City can be proactive. They would also be increasing the Storm Water Fee and property taxes at
the same time. Mayor Bennion stated that the present is the time to address the matter because
costs will only increase over time. Mr. Gerber indtcated that it should be rolled into the five-year
strategic plan.

Council Member Hyl~nd recommended that the fee be increased to the equivalent of the $200,000
transfer in the upcoming fiscal year. Mr. Jurges reported that the cunent fee of $8.44 per ERU
was projected to increase to $8.69. An increase of approximately 15% would be required to offset
the transfer, which would increase the total fee by $1.27 per month or $15.19 per year per ERU.

Council Member Holton asked about the origin of the $200,000 amount. Mr. Jurges stated that at
the time the fee wasinstituted, the City set an initial target of approximately $1.6 million. The 3%
yearly increase had only generated $224,000 in additional revenue since its inception. Mr. Shipp
stated that the Storm Water Fe~ Study recommended a fee of over $16, but the Council decided to
set it at $7.50 per ERU. The yearly 3% increases were a recent addition.

After further discussion, the Council agreed that the transfer from the General Fund should be
discontinued and the Storm Water Fee increased.

Council Member Hyland asked about the Walgreens lease funds. Mr. Gerber recommended that
if the City Council decided to move the revenue to the General Fund, some monies should be
retained in the CDRA to cover property maintenance costs. Mr. Jurges stated that approximately
$150,000 is available in the CDRA Fund, but it should maintain a balance to offset new costs. In


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Jurges confinned that maintenance
or other expenditures in the development area could also be funded through a budget adjustment.

Council Member Holton stated that residents are paying significantly more for everything, and the
City Council should do anything it can to make the deficit smaller. He was in favor of transferring
all lease revenue into the General Fund. Council Member Birrell stated that if a budget adjustment
could be legally made to cover costs related to the Walgreens property, she was also in favor.

Council Member Newell asked if a new line item could be created for transfers related to
maintenance issues to ensure transparency. Mr. Jurges reported that the current CDRA Fund
budget includes a transfer line item. Lease revenue can be transferred into the General Fund, and
any necessary monies can be transferred back into the CDRA Fund.

Council Member Hyland proposed that all other lease revenues be retained in the CDRA Fund to
cover maintenance and management costs, but Walgreens' lease payments be transferred to the
General Fund, including the $60,000 in payments received in the current fiscal year.

Mayor Bennion was not in favor of some smaller reductions like cancelling sustainability events
and Staff training, which have a big impact on the City and would not result in much savings. She
asked for the Council's input on other reductions.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Staff training budget should be retained, as they need
artificial intelligence training. The Citizens Budget Committee recommended keeping the three-
day Butlerville Days _event and cutting either fireworks or the drone show this year, and then only
having a one-day event next year. The same approach could be taken with the printed newsletter;
it could move to a quarterly printed and a monthly digital format. Those steps would allow
residents to see the effects of cutting the budget and provide feedback on how they would like to
move forward.                          -

Council Member Hyland was concerned about making changes to the Capital Improvements Fund.
Brighton Way was included in the resurfacing plan, but work had stopped because they are unsure
if they have the funds to do it. That road was included in the published maintenance plan, but the
City may not be able to deliver on that promise because of the increased infrastructure costs.
Mr. Gerber stated that the City previously transferred $3 million to Public Works, but it was
reduced in 2024. That i_s another area that was cut drastically to cover operational costs. He is
very concerned about maintenance of facilities, roads, and the stormwater system. Council
Member Hyland questioned whether the City was serving its residents if it did not budget for future
maintenance needs.

Ms. Higgins stated that the Butlerville Days Committee would be meeting the following day and
asked the Council's opinion on having both fireworks and the drone show. Each event costs
approximately $16,000. Council Member Newell pointed out that the state is in a severe drought,
so his preference would be to only have a drone show. Council Member Birrell agreed. Council
Member Hyland stated that the committee had indicated a preference for fireworks based on citizen
feedback. Council Member Holton asked if it would be worth asking the committee to present a
proposed budget to the City Council. Mr. Gerber stated that it would likely not be possible this

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      8
year, but he hoped to tum that responsibility over to the committee soon. Council Member Newell
noted that messaging will be critical so residents know the fireworks will only be cancelled this
year and why the decision was made.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber stated that if only one
lobbying firm is retained, his preference would be to retain the finn that tracks bills. The second
lobbyist helps the City obtain funding and could be brought back in the future. The City Council
directed Mr. Gerber to review the contracts. If possible, only one finn will be retained for FY
2027.

Mayor Bennion recommended that the Council training and travel budget be reduced to match
previous years. She was not in favor of reducing professional services and training. Council
Member Holton asked for more information on professional services. Mr. Gerber reported that
the line item is related to consultants the City sometimes hires for items like General Plan updates
and fee studies. Council Member Holton indicated a preference for cutting that budget; if the need
arose, a budget adjustment could be made to cover any consulting costs. Council Member Hyland
expressed concern about the Town Center and Gravel Pit developments, as Staff does not have
experience with projects of that size, and the City cannot afford to hire an assistant city manager.
She was in favor of retaining the consulting budget. Mr. Gerber noted that the Council had
discussed conducting a fee study, which will generate additional revenue. It would also be
beneficial to have a consultant help with the five-year strategic plan. When considering cuts, it is
important to ensure that it does not hamper the City's ability to meet its long-term needs.

Council Member Hyland stated that she had received calls about annexing the area around Willow
Creek Country Club, which was an opportunity to increase revenue but would require Staff time
and possibly professional services. Short-term rentals and Transit Revenue Tax ("TRT") cannot
currently be budgeted because the amounts are unknown. She is committed to increasing
complianc~ to capture that revenue from Airbnb owners who are charging TRT and not remitting
it or ta_!dng a residential exemption_ they are not entitled to. That will require an investment by the
City, but the return will be much greater. She urged caution about tightening the budget to the
point where they do more hann than good.

Council Member13irrell stated that at a ULCT Legislative Policy Committee ("LPC") meeting, it
was mentioned that cities will not be required to submit a Moderate-Income Housing Report next
year. Mr. Spung reported that the requirements change with every legislative session. The City is
exempt from reporting in ~alendar year 2026, but the report will need to be updated within the next
few years.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Council Member Hyland stated that
annexing the Willow Creek area would result in between $125,000 and $150,000 in additional
property tax revenue. If the annexation was completed and all deadlines were met in calendar year
2026, the City would receive that revenue in budget year 2028. Revenues from the 2025
annexations will not be received until November 2026, which is in FY 2027.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City Council had discussed creating a Parks and Recreation
Department to maintain City parks. The current contract with the Cottonwood Heights Parks and

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
Recreation Service Area ("CHPRSA") costs $220,000 per year. However, they recently completed
a study to determine true costs, and will increase the fee by approximately $120,000 this year. The
contract does not include Summerhill Park, which will cost an additional $30,000 to $40,000.

To create a Parks and Recreation Department, the City would need to hire three additional FTEs.
The ongoing cost would be $350,000 to $400,000, with startup costs of approximately $200,000.
Mr. Gerber believes that it would be more cost-effective in the long term and give the City better
control over its parks. Department staff could take on other tasks, such as building maintenance
and snowplowing in winter. Mr. Jurges indicated that although the one-time startup costs are a
concern, the CHRSA continuing to maintain City parks will cost more.

Council Member Hyland remarked that CHPRSA was passing on a 55% increase to Cottonwood
Heights, and they had a 28% property tax increase three to four years ago.

 In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, it was clarified that the CHPRSA
would continue to own and manage the Recreation Center and their parks, and residents who live
in the service district would continue to pay that tax. Mayor Bennion stated that it would not be a
change because people who live in the service district already pay those costs; this would simply
move maintenance of City parks to ~ City department. Council Member Holton remarked that the
long-tenn financial impact of the dec1sion was a more granular discussion.

Council Member Birrell asked about contracting for individual services. Mr. Shipp stated that the
costs of having an in-house Parks Department are typica1ly much lower than contracting for those
services. He considered that option when he first began working with the City, but at that time the
CHPRSA contract was significantly lower. Council Member Birrell asked if the new Public Works
complex could support the department or if additional facilities would be required. Mr. Shipp
confirmed tha_!_ the complex is large enough for the staff and all equipment. Moving parks
maintenance in-house would also increase the level of service. It would not affect the Recreation
Center or events programming. Council Member Birrell asked ifStaffwas making the assumption
that tho~e services would continue at no additional cost. Mr. Shipp clarified that CHPRSA collects
all funds for programming.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber stated that the fee increase
was based on the study of actual costs and a result of CHPRSA not increasing its fee for several
years. Mr. Shipp added that he believes the fee increase will allow them to break even, not make
a profit. Council MembeLHyland hesitated to incur the one-time costs in the upcoming budget
year.

Council Member Newell asked about the contract's expiration date. Mr. Shipp reported that it is
an annual contract, and the CHPRSA runs on a calendar year. Mr. Gerber added that they were
going to increase the fee in January, but were holding off until July to align with the City's fiscal
year.

Mayor Bennion asked if part-time employees were an option. Mr. Shipp stated that full-time
employees need to be on-site with part-time staff. He had evaluated the required staffing levels
and believed one existing FTE could be pulled into the Parks Department during the summer to

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
supervise the three new FTEs, and those employees could properly maintain all parks. The
ongoing costs would be in line with the CHPRSA, but the up-front cost for more equipment and
larger mowers was a consideration.

Council Member Hyland asked what the three FTEs would do in the off season. Mr. Shipp stated
that they can man snowplows and assist with the stormwater system and other maintenance. It
would increase safety with snowplowing because the shifts can be split ifnecessary. In his opinion,
the option would provide better response in the summer and a higher level of service all year.

Mayor Bennion stated that it would be better for the City to make the change now. However, it
may not be the year to make that financial commitment.

Mr. Jurges reported that a number of scenarios were run to detennine how different compensation
levels would affect the budget. The salary study recommended changes to bring the City in line
with the average market and outlined a new step plan for the Police Department, and Staff
determined that the study can be implemented_at a cost of $80,000 to $180,000, depending on the
net adjustment for civilian staff. For example, if the grade recommendation is 5%, civilian
employees may only receive a 2% increase in actual pay. The Police Department did not have
such flexibility because the step plaµ must be implemented in a specific way.

A 2% COLA increase would cost approximately $240,000. The study recommended that merit
increases be significantly higher. Approximately one-third of sworn employees are not eligible
for merit increases, but on!y two civilian employees are ineligible. Because more civilian
employees are eligible for merit increases, the net impact is higher. The recommended merit
increase was 2.75% for civilian and 3.63% for sworn employees, for a total of$300,000. The total
recommended increase was approximately $600,000. Overall, current compensation was
approximately $13 million.

Mr. Jurges indicated that the above figures did not include benefits changes as that information is
typically received in mid-April. However, a 1% reduction was expected in Utah Retirement
Services rates for civilian employees, which would result in a savings of approximately $40,000.
Ms. Higgins stated that the benefits increase will be at least 7.2%.

Council Member Hyland stated that salaries are based on comparables, and anyone who had been
hired within the last year should be at market. The market study should be inclusive of merit and
COLA, and she believed doing all three could be a disproportional increase. The City cannot
sustain a 6% increase in employee compensation every year without an equivalent 18% property
tax increase.

Ms. Higgins clarified that the market study applies through the end of the current fiscal year. All
other cities will have merit and COLA increases beginning in July. If Cottonwood Heights does
not do them as well, the City will fall further behind again. Mr. Gerber added that 50% of positions
in the City are below mid-market. Council Member Hyland stated that inflation had decreased
since the pandemic, so increases may not need to be as high as in recent years. The City needs to
tighten its belt, and she did not know where those numbers could come from if not compensation.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      11
Council Member Birrell stated that it would be reasonable to consider a lower increase. Mayor
Bennion recommended an increase of 3.5%. Ms. Higgins indicated that the City cannot sustain
service levels and organizational capacity without competitive compensation. Cottonwood
Heights operates with a lean, high-performing workforce where employees perform multiple
functions that would normally be split across several positions at larger cities, and those employees
can go to other cities and only perform one function. Council Member Newell remarked that
losing employees would create a danger to the City.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City has moved to a four 10-hour day schedule, which is
a non-compensation benefit, to attract talent. That was heavily debated, but she believes it will
help attract and retain employees. The executive summary provided by Eva Chan indicated that
expenses have increased by $8.28 million over the past six years, and 50% of that increase was in
public safety salaries. Citizens expect the City to provide a certain level of service, but it may not
need to be a premium level of service.

Mayor Bennion asked Chief Russo to speak to the impacts of freezing Police positions. Chief
Russo reported that the City was currently down three officers, but two additional officers were
expected to resign. Two positions would not be filled. Normal calls for service require at least
two cars or four officers. If someone is on a traffic call, there are not enough officers to respond
to an incoming call. The only way to fill that void is either with overtime, which is not sustainable,
or to pull School Resource Officers -out of schools. Vacancies due to military deployments,
vacations, and sick days also require overtime. The City offers a signing bonus of $4,000. Recent
open recruiting resulted in fou.r candidates, none of whom passed the background check. That is
the caliber of candidates Cottonwood Heights was attracting due to the low pay and benefits.
Losing officers and b_ei!1g unable to fill their positions is expensive and dangerous. The true cost
of paying officers time and a half to cover stress was discussed, as well as other impacts of being
short-staffed.

Council Member Newell stated that the current City Council had inherited the problem, and they
needed Jo be courageous in making decisions that may not be popular. He was not in favor of
diluting City services. Increasing taxes may not be popular, but it is necessary to remain solvent
and provide those services. People need to see what they are getting for their money. If they look
at it critically, they will understand why the Council made that tough decision.

Mayor Bennion stated that ifthe_Planning Department had the same turnover this year as last year,
it would decimate the City. She was in favor of approving the market increase so the City can
retain employees.

Council Member Holton stated that his position had not changed, and he preferred to see further
belt-tightening. Council Member Birrell asked about specific areas he would like to see tightened.
Mr. Gerber reported that operations had been cut back for several years, and no further cuts could
be made without drastically cutting the level of service. Council Member Holton stated that he
believes the level of service is a different discussion. When he worked at Rio Tinto, if they had a
bad year, employees did not receive raises. Cottonwood Heights only had to raise taxes once in
20 years and compensation had increased yearly. There were new taxes from Hillside Plaza, the
Telecom Tax, and the Storm Water Fee, and he was not comfortable supporting a property tax

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
increase. He believed that everything should be considered for cuts or paused, and the Council
could then reevaluate next year.

Council Member Hyland remarked that residents do not realize what they have until they do not
have it. Council Member Holton stated that if residents complain and say they would be
comfortable paying more for a higher level of service, he would hear their feedback and be willing
to make that change. He preferred caution.

Mayor Bennion stated that her idea of caution is to retain employees who serve the City so well.
There are important things happening in Cottonwood Heights. This year, decisions will be made
on the Old Mill and Town Center, and proper staffing is crucial. Council Member Holton stated
that he did not think it was a question of whether or not to support Staff. He believed it was just a
different approach. He wants the current employees to stay and be happy and supported in their
jobs, but he also wants to advocate for residents who are paying the bill. Things are expensive on
every level, and this cyclical problem is difficult for governments.

Council Member Hyland heard Council Member Holton's concerns, but pointed out that the City
cannot take the daiis from things it does not control. Garbage service costs $28 per month and the
base water rate is $40, for a total of $66. Residents currently pay an average of$67 per month for
all City services, which was an incredible value. The City was now at the point where they could
not continue to deficit spend to provide_that level of service. - Council Member Newell noted that
$67 per month is the equivalent of two trips to McDonald's for a family of four. If the dollar value
is presented, it is easier to understand that residents are paying a very small amount for City
services.

Council Member Hyland stated that although they are legally required to discuss percentages, she
would like dollar amounts to be highlighted. Information should be provided on the median home
price and dollar amount of the property tax-increase. The Cottonwood Improvement District had
a 75%__increase in 2025, which increased her property tax bill by $90, but Canyons School
District's 6% increase was $145.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber reported that the cuts that
had already been discussed totaled approximately $1 million, and the City needs $2 million to
balance the FY 2027 budget. Additionally, there are $614,000 in required security and technology
upgrades that cannot be put off any further. Other requests that had been put off for years total
approximately $2.5 million. Cottonwood Heights did not have a maintenance budget, and he could
not continue to maintain the City and provide the current level of service under the current budget.
This year had a $2.7 million deficit just to maintain services.

Council Member Hyland stated that the median monthly City prope1iy tax cost is $67. A 25%
increase would be an additional $16.75 per month, and 50% would be $33.50. There is a circuit
breaker program that provides prope1iy tax relief to those who meet qualifications. If a 25%
increase was enacted in FY 2027, she believes another 25% increase will be necessary in FY 2028.

Mr. Gerber asked about the Council's goal for the year, if they wanted to solve the problem for
one year, paii of the year, or several years. The State Legislature considered several bills related

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
to prope1iy taxes in 2026, including setting a maximum of 5% for tax increases. If the City does
not catch up now, it may be required to make cuts in the future.

Council Member Birrell stated that the mechanisms Governor Cox and the Legislature are using
to provide more housing are connected to tax-increment financing ("TIF"), and entities that agreed
to forego TIF projects have been substantially increasing their rates. A resident may pay $5,000
in property taxes, but only 13% of that goes to Cottonwood Heights. The Council needed to
consider residents on fixed incomes, as they often only heard from more affluent residents who do
not want any tax increases.

Council Member Hyland stated that if the City were funded for two years, they would then have
greater certainty regarding when the Town Center wiH come online and begin generating lease
revenue. Her preference was to propose a 50% increase, which could be pulled back if necessary,
based on feedback in public hearings.

Council Member Newell remarked on the possibility of the Legislature limiting property tax
increases. He lives on a fixed income and does not want to pay a large tax increase, but he also
wants a police officer available if he calls and for his street to be safe and well-maintained.

Mayor Bennion stated that it is important that the City has healthy fund balances because it must
address needs that have been neglected. Fire Station 110 had been discussed for decades as it
should be a City station. Salt Lake County has not maintained it, and negotiations were needed
regarding its maintenance prior to turning it over to Cottonwood Heights. When that happens, the
City will need to invest $100,000 to $200,000. Council Member Birrell agreed and noted that the
City also needs to consider the erratic weather patterns and unforeseen challenges associated with
climate change.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Ms. Nakamura reviewed the steps
required for Truth in Taxation. When the Tentative Budget is adopted with a property tax increase,
an Impact Schedule is required as a separate item on the Agenda. The Impact Schedule must
clearly show how the additional revenues.will be spent, and it is revisited throughout the process.
The Tax Commission and Salt Lake County Auditor must be notified of the tax increase by June
1. In June, the City Council will adopt an Inte1im Budget at the higher budget amount, but the
additional tax revenues must be held in reserve until a tax hearing is held and the Final Budget is
adopted in August. There is an emphasis on transparency during the hearings, including discussion
of specific percentages and the impact on average-value homes and businesses.

Mr. Jurges stated that the Truth in Taxation hearing must be held on a night when no other Council
business is conducted, but it would be advisable to hold the hearing on the night of a normal City
Council meeting. If a second City Council meeting was needed it August, it should be scheduled
for an off week. The hearing would extend the budget process through August.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Jurges reported that he would
need to model the reductions discussed during the meeting prior to determining a break-even
amount. If all items were cut and no adjustments were made to employee compensation,
approximately $1.7 million would be needed, which would equate to an increase of 20.8%.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                      14
Employee compensation would bring the necessary increase to approximately 28.2% with an
average impact of $13 .75 per month. That would only address FY 2027 and did not include
building maintenance, City Hall audio-visual and technology upgrades, patrol car cameras, and
other items that had been delayed for many years.

Mayor Bennion stated that police department upgrades like dash cameras are necessary to protect
the City from liability. Council Member Hyland agreed that the City needs to maintain its
investment in public safety. Cybercrime has increased, as have the associated informational
technology costs. Council Member Holton stated that the State recently appropriated $11 million
for municipal and school information technology ("IT") safety. Mr. Jurges reported that the total
State contribution had actually decreased as they cut other items, but Federal Bureau of
Investigation and Criminal Justice Information System requirements must be met. The City's
liability insurance also requires specific IT infrastructute compliance.

Council Member Hyland stated that there was a consensus on the need for a property tax increase,
as well as the Council's commitment to retaining a citizen advisory committee and changing City
policies to include benclunarks and guardrails. The biggest hurdle with the Citizen Budget
Committee was helping them understand property taxation, fund accounting, and municipal
budgeting. Council Member Birrell-remarked that the City should get in front of the issue by
holding town hall meetings and proactively managing public perception.

Mr. Jurges reviewed new calculations and indicated that a 42.9% increase would net approximately
$3 .5 million and increase the average property tax bill by $251 annually or $21 per month. That
amount would balance the budget for FY 2027 only, but did include the $200,000 in upfront costs
to bring parks maintenance in-house.

Council Member Newell recommended that incremental increases be considered so that the City
avoids this situation in the future. Mr. Gerber stated that some cities include Truth in Taxation on
their yeady calendars. For example, Murray has a yearly increase of 2% to 7%. Mr. Jurges stated
that he li~s in West Jordan, which has had small yearly increases since 2020 that resulted in a
20% net increase over that time period. Cottonwood Heights only having one property tax increase
in 20 years was abnormal.

Council Member Hyland asked that the City Council agree on high-level budget priorities that can
be included in the narrative, whicli should also convey that City services are aligned with residents'
needs. Citizen feedback can then inform the Council's decisions moving forward.

Council Member Holton asked about Citizen Budget Committee recommendations. Mayor
Bennion stated that their opinions were varied. Council Member Hyland added that they did not
want a property tax increase unless the City Council commits to long-term policy changes that will
prevent the problem from recurring. Many members were adamant about cutting costs, but they
will not field calls when their road is not plowed for tlu·ee days, or when police do not respond to
a call about property theft. In many jurisdictions, property theft reports are handled online and are
not investigated. To Council Member Bi1Tell's point, the town halls need to focus on the services
residents receive and the visible impacts of not increasing prope1iy taxes. She loves living on
Cottonwood Heights because she feels safe.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      15
In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mayor Bennion stated that the policy goal
is to reach a structural balance with ongoing revenue paying for ongoing costs. The Citizen Budget
Committee indicated that the City has let its debt get out of control, and that must be addressed.

Council Member Hyland referred to the Flash Vote survey on property taxes, which had varied
comments and did not result in a consensus. Mr. Gerber stated that one thing that came out of it
is that the City needs to be fiscally responsible. There were no policies in place to guide decision-
making, and the City Council needs to promise residents that those guardrails will be put in place
and no ongoing costs will be added to the City budget without a matching revenue source. Council
Member Hyland stated that she would be willing to adopt Holladay's policies immediately.

Mayor Bem1ion agreed with Council Member Hyland and stated that the City is heading in a good
direction. She was happy for the Citizen Budget Committee's input and that the Council was
considering long-term policies to provide guardrails. She does not want the City to miss
opportunities because it has lost staff or has ·a tragedy occur due to not having enough police
officers. Cottonwood Heights needs to continueJ>roviding the level of service people moved here
for and make an investment in the City to prevent unnecessary liability and noncompliance.

Mr. Gerber asked for direct feedback on the budget. Mayor Bennion stated that it should include
all "shoulds" because they had been put off for too long. Council Member Newell agreed. Council
Member Hyland stated that she cannot support offering market, merit, and COLA increases. Mr.
Gerber asked the Council to proyide a percentage increase rather than focus on a specific increase
type. Mayor Bennion stated that if the percentage includes benefits, it should be 4%.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Geber clarified that the original
6% was an overall compensation increase, which included current benefits costs only. Ms. Higgins
added tha_t health insurance is increasing by 13% to 14% statewide this year. However, the City's
contract with Public Employees Health Program ("PEHP") was locked into a maximum 7.2%
mcreas~

After further discussion, it was decided that the total employee compensation increase should be
tentatively set at 3.5%.

3.      Town Center Update and Considerations/Changes.

Mr. Gerber reported on potential changes to the Town Center project. The City had the option to
sell a portion of the parcel to a residential developer and the grocery store pad site to a grocer that
does not lease space. He had spoken with the bond council, which indicated that the sale would
be allowed as long as any sale proceeds are applied to the public portion of the project. Council
Member Hyland stated that it would affect the back portion of the parcel, and construction could
begin soon. The residential development could be a for-sale product rather than for rent.

Mr. Geber noted that the Town Center had always been considered a legacy project that the City
would own and maintain in perpetuity, and the proposal would decrease the project by 50%.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
However, the City Council now had a better idea of the development schedule and what will be
required to relocate Walgreens and Dollar Tree, and there was ample time to consider the proposal.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Gerber confomed that the sale
proceeds could be used to address the current leases, fund construction of the plaza, or possibly be
used in lieu of issuing a second bond.

Council Member Birrell was interested in the proposal based on being able to avoid the additional
$10 million GO Bond. She had hoped that reasons why the City cannot step away from the Town
Center project would be discussed at the meeting because members of the public have expressed
concern about moving forward.

Council Member Hyland stated that the upside of selling is that property tax revenues will be
received sooner. However, she understands the argument about it being a legacy project.

City Attorney, Shane Topham expressed concern about how the commercial portion would be
completed if the residential portion was not usea to incentivize development. -That created the risk
of the entire property being developed with residential. The project had been structured to require
the entire property to be developed in unison. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Mr. Topham agreed that it could be a negotiation point but pointed out that a contract is
not an assurance, and dividing the property would impact the viability of the commercial portion
of the project.

Rezoning the property was discussed, as well as appropriate building heights for the residential
portion. Mayor Bennion remarked that it is important to explore all possibilities. A large number
of residents did not vote in support of the project, so any options to reduce the financial impact
should be considered. -

Mr. Gerber reported on changes to State Code regarding sunsetting of development areas. The
City had not yet established a TIF for the area. If that is not done within eight years, the area will
dissolve. However, it can be reestablished. Mr. Spung added that TIF funds would be available
for the entire 100-acre project area, not just the Town Center site.

4.      Highland Drive Improvements - Grants Discussion.

Mr. Gerber discussed the project's history. The 30% design phase had been completed, but the
project stalled after discussions with the City Council. There was no money available to complete
a second 30% design, and County funding was expiring. If the City did not move forward with
the project as originally designed, the funding would be lost.

Council Member Birrell asked for details on the required City match. Mr. Shipp reported that the
estimated City match for the first portion, including the intersection and adjacent trail, is $150,000.
The second portion is a County project with no City match, but the $1.1 million in funding will
expire in December 2026. Staff was negotiating with the County to extend the deadline. Traffic
calming measures on Bengal Boulevard are included in that portion. Improvements to the Bengal
Boulevard intersection have a City match of approximately $160,000, which was already

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      17
budgeted. A total of $2 million was received for the Phase II trail with a required City match of
$140,000. Mr. Shipp will be meeting with the Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") to
discuss the possibility of combining some phases. Staffs request was to move forward with at
least two portions of the project.

Specific improvements and safety issues were discussed. Council Member Holton expressed
concern about pedestrian safety for students walking to Brighton High School. Council Member
Birrell asked about a pedestrian study and discussed removing the slip lane. Council Member
Hyland remarked that traffic could back up if the slip lane is removed. Mayor Bennion directed
the conversation back to the funding question.

Mr. Shipp asked if the City Council wanted to move forward with the previously approved 30%
design. Council Member Birrell was concerned about property acquisition. Council Member
Hyland was not in favor of having the bus stop to the n01th or removing the slip lane. Council
Member Holton asked about adding a tum lane. Mr. Shipp stated that the island on the north side
cannot be moved, but there are options with the one to the south. The project would connect the
trail system and improve the intersection for traffic flow. Phase II preliminary design had been
completed for the trail on the west side of Highland Drive and behind Mountview Park. Council
Member Birrell was opposed to Ph_ase JII as she does not believe cyclists will use the trail. In
response to a question, Mr. Shipp reported that Staff would meet with Salt Lake County the
following week regarding a possible extension. Mayor Bennion expressed an interest in attending.

After further discussion, a majority of the City Council was in favor of moving forward. The item
would be placed on the next Work Session agenda.

5.      Adjourn

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Council
MembefHyland. The motion passed with tbe unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Retreat adjourned at 5: 12 p.m.




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Retreat held Tuesday, March 24, 2026.

Tey{ For~e.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved:
                      - - - - -- - -- -




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights   Approved: _ __   _ __

                                                      19
                      (~ ,

           Cottonwood Heights
           Ciry bt1uw11 tht t'1IIJYIIIJ




                    3a.

            REPORT

 Central Wasatch Commission

Executive Director Lindsey Nielsen
                 '(~ '
         Cottonwood Heights
         City bt1uvm th~ m11yom




                3b.

         REPORT
   South Valley Chamber

President and CEO Jay Francis
                v~              I


          Cottonwood Heights
          Cuy bt111,rr11 t/,e amyom




                  3c.

          REPORT
Health in the Heights Committee

      Chair Chelsey Voss
                 ( ~'

         Cottonwood Heights
         Ciry brtuv-m "" r,mpm




                3d.

         REPORT
    Legislative Debrief

Brian Allen and Chantel Allen
               t ~r,
    Cottonwood Heights
    C,ry IH11,ym tllf' m11Jt11U




             4a.

 STAFF REPORT
Sapling Sale Update
    Jim Spung
                                    Business Meeting D
                                    Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                                    Denied D Approved D Continued D
                                    CM Signature:

ANNUAL SAPUNG SALE
Cottonwood Heights will host its 3 rd Annual Sapling Sal,e Ev.e nt on Saturday, April 25th from 9:00am to 2:00pm, in the Gty
Hall parking lot. Residents may pre-order trees onlin:e or in-person at tile event. There will be 71 trees available to
purchase by the general public.

The program provides residents with affordable tre.es that benefit the oommunity through:

     •   Expanding the city's urban tree canopy;
    ·•    Promot1ing water-wise and dimate-appmpriat,e la1ridl·scap·ing;
     •    Enhanciing neighborhood aesthetics and li11abili,t y;
    •     R,eduoing heat is;land effect;
     •   ,Improving air quality; and
     •   E!l'ilcou.raging community participation in susta1inallility init1iativ,e s.

Th e 2026 program includes a sel,ection of trees appmp.ri.ate for resid.ential use. All trees are provided in 5-gallon
containers {approximately 3-5 feet tall) a nd were selected! based on cliimate suitability, size diversity, and compatibility
with residential landscapes in Cottonwood Heights.

TRiEE CffV USA RECOGNITION
Cottonwood Heights has also received designation as a Tree City USA community for 2025, demonstrating the city's
conti111ued commitment to effective urban forest management. The Sapling Sale Program is a key component of these
efforts and h elps advance the city's long-term sustainability goals. As part of this recognition, signage and placards have
been provided to d isplay.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
None.
      Cottonwood Heights
      City bm,wn thr r,111)0,u




              4b.

   STAFF REPORT
Culture Division Update
    Barbara Higgins
       Staff Report Memo
I




      o:        Mayor Bennion &                                                               From: Barbara Higgins,
                Cottonwood Heights City Council                                                       Administrative Services Di rector
                                                                                              :· . - . .      . '    ' - ,-             ,"                                                                              .   ,-   ~                            .        . .
    Date: March 17, 2026                                                                       :                                                                                                                            ..                                                              '
                                                                                                                       .                                                       .                                                                                                            .
                                                                                              't •   "   • ..
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                    .,,~;Cu\,.   •   . l   •   h. ,._ • • • )   '   •   , __   ~ • . •,               '      -     •    •   _,,_,t,_,._   •           •   J           _ _._       •   .....:;j




    Re: Changes to Cu lture Division
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..
    :~:~;-~~:~.:~· .·J~;~1;i::~ r~_-;:-.   I:-.~:   ·t;,:i:Llr.(;~~ _~~:}~:-- ·,__ :·:~~~-: :~ ,~-:~ ~J    : :r.~·~:.:.~ ~ ·- --~,~.Mi,, ·::__~ -~~-:-.,~-·-~                      L      _   -   • t~. __   - •       ~J~ r; . _·-.      '   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~- z • • .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,••
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _l




    Meeting Requested:                                       Business Meeting D                          Work Session IZI                                       Other □


    Public Hearing Needed?                                   Yes □ No IZI Undetermined □


                                                             Denied □             Approved □                         Co nti n ued □
    CM Approval or Denial
                                                             CM Signature:


    Circumstances: Due to the current budget shortfal l, staff have evaluated organizational structures across departments
    and identified necessary changes w ith the Culture Division. As part of these efforts, the Culture Coordinator position has
    been eliminated through attrition, and the Culture Manager position has also been removed.
    Actions Taken: While these changes reduce staffing capacity, they present an opportunity to realign the City's approach
    to arts and cultural programming. Staff are actively restructuring the Arts Council to better align w ith exist ing City code
    and governance practices. In addition, we are eva luating models from other municipalities that successful ly support arts
    and events programming with limited or part-time staffing resources.
    It is important to acknowledge that the loss of these positions w ill impact the level of direct staff support previously
    provided. The City w ill not be able to fully replace the scope of w ork performed by these roles. However, the new
    structure is intended to foster increased community involvement and empowerment, enabl ing residents, volunteers,
    and partners to take a more active role in shaping and delivering arts and cultural experiences.
    Staff w ill continue to monitor this transition and refine the approach to ensure sustainable, community-driven
    programming moving forward.
     Cottonwood Heights
     City '"IIIYm 1hr r ,111:,0111




               4c.

  STAFF REPORT
Annexation Discussion
    Jared Gerber
        """-,&.-c'"- -•U( ~ \     I



             Cottonwood Heights
              Ciry bm,vr11 tht m11p1u




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                     4.0
         Proclamations
          Shane Topham
  " ---0-ot;f( 1f;\           I



      Cottonwood Heights
      Ci ty bm1'(m the f'lln)YJ,u




               4.1
Proclamation 2026-01
Celebrating Arbor Day
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     PROCLAMATION 2026-01

                         A PROCLAMATION CELEBRATING ARBOR DAY

      WHEREAS, trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water,
reduce heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving
oxygen, and provide habitat for birds and wildlife; and

       WHEREAS, trees are a renewable resource, giving us paper, fuel for our fires , and wood
for our homes and countless other products; and

       WHEREAS, trees also increase urban property values, enhance the economic vitality of
business areas, and beautify the community; and

       WHEREAS, wherever they are planted, trees are a source of joy and spiritual renewal;
and

        WHEREAS, in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture
that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees; and

       WHEREAS, this holiday, called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of more
than a million trees in Nebraska; and

       WHEREAS, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world; and

        WHEREAS, to celebrate Arbor Day 2026, the city council of the city of Cottonwood Heights
(the "City") desires to express its suppo11 for Arbor Day and the related activities planned to occur in
the City, including a community tree sale event and planting of any surplus trees on city property;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights and the City's manager that the City hereby recognizes Arbor Day on Friday, 24 April 2026,
and urges all City residents to celebrate Arbor Day, to support efforts to protect the City's trees and
woodlands, and to plant trees to gladden the heai1 and promote the well-being of the City's current and
future residents.

        DATED this 7th day of April 2026.


 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

 Council Member Matt Holton
                                ------------------------
 Council Member Suzanne Hyland _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

 Council Member Shawn Newell - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 City Manager Jared Gerber _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                    l~,
         Cottonwood Heights
         C11y b(IU'(nl tht (OIIJOIIJ




                  4.2
    Proclamation 2026-02
Designating Public Works Week
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    PROCLAMATION 2026-02

    A PROCLAMATION DESIGNATING MAY 17-23, 2026 AS PUBLIC WORKS WEEK

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") is committed to maintaining and
enhancing the quality of life for its residents through the delivery of essential public services; and

       WHEREAS, the American Public Works Association has designated May 17-23, 2026,
as National Public Works Week to celebrate the vital role public works professionals play in
building, protecting, and sustaining our communities; and

       WHEREAS, the City's Public Works Department (the "Department") prov ides
indispensable services, including road maintenance, water management, waste collection, snow
removal, and infrastructure upkeep, ensuring the safety, health, and prosperity of our community;
and

         WHEREAS, the Department's employees exemplify dedication, expertise, and resilience
in their daily efforts to address challenges, respond to emergencies, and maintain the City' s critical
infrastructure; and

        WHEREAS, the City's city council and manager desire to honor and express appreciation
to the Department's employee for their important contributions to the City and its residents;

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED by the Cottonwood Heights city council
and manager that the City hereby (a) proclaims May 17- 23 , 2026, as Public Works Week in
recognition of the invaluable contributions of the Department's employees to our community; (b)
commends the Department's staff for their tireless commitment to excellence, their proactive
problem-solving, and their unwavering service to the City and its residents; and (c) encourage the
City' s residents to express gratitude to public works employees during this week and to reflect on
the essential role these services play in sustaining the quality of life in the City.

         DATED this 7th day of April 2026.


 Mayor Gay Lynn Bem1ion
                             - - - -- -- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- -- -
 Council Member Matt Holton
                                 - - -- - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - -
 Council Member Suzanne Hyland _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _

 Council Member Shawn Newell
                                   - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - -- - -
 Council Member Ellen Birrell
                                 - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - -- - - -- -
 City Manager Jared Gerber
                              - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - -- --
'-&.- n .--{~             I

    Cottonwood Heights
    Ciry lxm-em 1hr fJll)YIIIJ




             5.0
  Action Items
 Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                     Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                     Thursday, March 26, 2026 8:58 AM
To:                       Jared Gerber, Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                  [EXT:]Legislation for April 7th City Council Business Meeting
Attachments:              WST-Cottonwood Heights-Proclamation 2026-01 Celebrating Arbor Day.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                          Proclamation 2026-02 Proclaiming Public Works Week.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-18 Approving
                          FHA Grant Agreement (FY 2024--Safe Streets for All Grant).pdf; 2026.03.02 693JJ32640243_Cottonwood Heights_For
                          Execution.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liason to the Youth City
                          Council.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-20 Approving Planning Commission Appointments.pdf;
                          WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-21 Approving Independent Contractor Agreement with Ballard Venues
                          LLC.pdf; Independent Contractor Agreement - Ballard Venues LLC.pdf




Greetings-

The following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the city council 's April 71t1 business
meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Proclamation 2026-01. By this proclamation the council will designate April 25, 2026 as "Arbor
       Day."

    2. ProclamaUon 2026-02. By this proclamation the council will designate May 17-23, 2026 as" Public
                           1



       Works Week."

    3. Resolution 2026-18. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
       with the Office of Safety of the Federal Highway Administration of the U.S. Department of
       Transportation wher-eunder the city will receive a grant of $400,000 under the Safe Streets and
       Roads for AU Grant program for FY2024, in connection with which the city will be requ ired to provide
       $100,000 in matching funds. A copy of the proposed agreement also is attached.

    4. Resolution 2026-19. This resolution will approve the appointment of CM Hyland as the council's
       liaison to the Youth City Council.

    5. Resolution 2026-20. Planning commissioner Garry Barnes recently moved from District 2 to District
       3, leaving District 2 without a regular member representative. Consequently, this resolution will
       appoint PC alternate member Ruben (Rusty} Lugo as the District 2 regular member and Garry
       Barnes as an alternate member.

    6. Resolution 2026-21 . This resolution will approve an agreement whereunder Ballard Venue LLC will
       provide event planning and coordination services in connection with the City's 2026 Bultervilte
       Days community event scheduled for 16-18 July 2026. A copy of the proposed agreement also is
       attached.

    7. Resolution 2026-22. This resolution will amend the minimum bid, method of determining minimum
       bid, and/or minimum bid amow1t specified in Resolution 2025-68 for a certain surplus 1998
        International "Command Post" vehicle that has failed to attract acceptable offers at its current price.
WM . SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                        2
                                   · ( ~,

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City btru~rn 1/,t rnn:rons




                                    5.1
                      Resolution 2026-18
By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into a
contract whereunder the U.S. Department of Transportation will
 provide $400,000 in FY 2024 "Safe Streets and Roads for All"
 grant funding to the city, conditioned on the city's provision of
                   $100,000 in matching funds.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION N 0. 2026-18

                  A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING AN
            AGREEMENT WITH THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                FOR FY 2024 "SAFE STREETS FOR ALL" GRANT FUNDING

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 7 April 2026 to consider, among other things, approving and
ratifying the City's entry into an agreement (the "Agreement") whereunder the Office of Safety of
the Federal Highway Administration of the U.S. Depa11ment of Transportation will provide a
$400,000 grant to the City under the FHWA's FY 2024 "Safe Streets and Roads for All" grant
program, conditioned on the City's provision of $100,000 in matching funds; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a copy of which is
attached as an exhibit hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and ratify the City's
entry into the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
that the Agreement is hereby approved and ratified, and that the City's mayor and recorder are
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-18, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of April 2026.


ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:---- -- -- - - - -                           By:
                                                      ----------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                             Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea _ Nay _
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay _
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea _ Nay _
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea _ Nay _

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of April 2026.

        RECORDED this_ day of April 2026.
1.   Federal Award No.                                             2.   Effective Date            3. Assistance
     693JJ32640243                                                      See No. 16 Below              Listings No.
                                                                                                      20.939

4.   Award To                                                      5.   Sponsoring Office
     City of Cottonwood Heights                                         U.S. Department of Transportation
     2277 E Bengal Blvd.                                                Federal Highway Administration
     Salt Lake City, UT. 84121                                          Office of Safety
                                                                         1200 New Jersey A venue, SE
     Unique Entity Id.: NF8PJVA68AB3                                    HSSA-1 , Mail Drop E71-l 17
     TIN No.: 20-2154375                                                Washington, DC 20590


6.   Period of Performance                                         7.   Total Amount
     Effective Date of Award- 24 months                                 Federal Share:                 $400,000
                                                                        Recipient Share:               $100,000
                                                                        Other Federal Funds:            $0
                                                                        Other Fw1ds:                    $0
                                                                        Total:                         $500,000

8.   Type of Agreement                                             9.   Authority
     Grant                                                              Section 24112 of the Infrastructure Investment
                                                                        and Jobs Act (IIJA, Pub. L. 117-58, November
                                                                        15, 2021)
10. Procurement Request No.                                         u. Federal Funds Obligated
    HSA250084PR                                                         $400,000


12. Submit Payment Requests To                                      13. Accounting and ApflrO(ffiations Data
    See Article 5.                                                      15X0l 74E50.0000.055SR30500.5592000000.
                                                                        41010.61006600



14. Description of the Project
    Study additional safety improvements along 2700 East and Fort Union Boulevard.

 RECIPIENT                                                         FEDERAL IDGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
 15. Signature of Person Authorized to Sign                        16. Signature of Agreement Officer




 Signature                            Date                           Signature                                 Date
 Name: Gay Lynn Bennion                                              Name: Robert S. Miller, II
 Title: Mayor                                                        Title: Agreement Officer




                                                      l of 14
                        U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                             GRANT AGREEMENT UNDER THE
          FISCAL YEAR 2024 SAFE STREETS AND ROADS FOR ALL GRANT PROGRAM


This agreement is between the United States Department of Transportation's (the "USDOT") Federal Highway
Administration (the "FHWA") and the City of Cottonwood Heights (the "Recipient").

This agreement reflects the selection of the Recipient to receive a Safe Streets and Roads for All ("SS4A")
Grant for the City of Cottonwood Heights Supplemental Planning.

The parties therefore agree to the following:


                                           ARTICLE 1
                                  GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS


    1.1 General Terms and Conditions.

   (a) In this agreement, "Genernl Terms and Conditions" means the content of the document titled "General
       Terms and Conditions Under the Fiscal Year 2024 Safe Streets and Roads for All ("SS4A") Grant
       Program," dated November 4, 2025, which is available at
       https ://www.transportation.gov/ grants/ ss4a/ grant-agreements under "Fiscal Year 2024." Articles 7- 33
       are in the General Tem1s and Conditions. The General Tenns and Conditions are part of this agreement.

   (b) The Recipient acknowledges that it has knowledge of the General Tenns and Conditions. Recipient also
       states that it is required to comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations including, but not
       limited to, the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
       Federal Awards (2 CFR part 200); National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. § 4321 et
       seq.); and Build America, Buy America Act (IIJA, div. G §§ 70901-27).

   (c) The Recipient acknowledges that the General Tenns and Conditions impose obligations on the Recipient
       and that the Recipient's non-compliance with the General Tenns and Conditions may result in remedial
       action, tennination of the SS4A Grant, disallowing costs incurred for the Project, requiring the Recipient
       to refund to the FHWA the SS4A Grant, and reporting the non-compliance in the Federal-govemment-
       wide integrity and perfonnance system.




                                                    2 of 14
                                          ARTICLE 2
                             APPLICATION, PROJECT, AND AWARD


2.1 Application.

   Application Title:    City of Cottonwood Heights Supplemental Planning

   Application Date:     07/ 17/2024

2.2 Award Amount.

   SS4A Grant Amount: $400,000

2.3 Federal Obligation Information.

       Federal Obligation Type: Single

2.4 Budget Period.

   Budget Period: See Block 6 of Page l

2.5 Grant Designation.

   Designation: Planning and Demonstration


                                        ARTICLE 3
                              SUMMARY PROJECT INFORMATION


3.1 Summary of Prnject's Statement of Work.

   Planning and Demonstration Narrative: Study additional safety improvements along 2700 East and Fort
   Union Boulevard, which are part of the composite safety network in the Safety Action Plan. The study
   will include public engagement, a current conditions analysis, visioning and project goals, a safety
   analysis, an exploration of alternative concepts, and a final corridor concept.

   The project will be completed in one phase.

3.2 Project's Estimated Schedule.

   Supplemental Planning Schedule

    Milestone                                    Schedule Date
    Planned Final Plan Publicly Available        July 30, 2027
    Date:
    Planned SS4A Final Report Date:              September 30, 2027




                                                 3 of 14
3.3   Project's Estimated Costs.

 (a) Eligible Project Costs

                                        Eligible Project Costs
                 SS4A Grant Amount:                                      $400,000
                 Other Federal Funds:                                          $0
                 State Funds:                                                  $0
                 Local Funds:                                            $100,000
                 In-Kind Match:                                                 $0
                 Other Funds:                                                   $0
                 Total Eligible Project Cost:                            $500,000


 (b) Cost Classification Table - For Planning and Demonstration Grants with demonstration activities
 and Implementation Grants Only


 (c) Indirect Costs


 Indirect costs are allowable under this Agreement in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 and the
 Recipient's approved Budget Application. In the event the Recipient's indirect cost rate changes, the
 Recipient will notify FHWA of the plarmed adjustment and provide supporting documentation for such
 adjushnent. This Indirect Cost provision does not operate to waive the limitations on Federal funding
 provided in this document. The Recipient's indirect costs are allowable only insofar as they do not cause
 the Recipient to exceed the total obligated funding.


                                         ARTICLE4
                                     CONTACT INFORMATION


 4.1 Recipient Contact(s).

 Matthew F. Shipp, P.E.
 Public Works Director / City Engineer
 Cottonwood Heights
 6579 South 3000 East
 Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121
 (801) 944-7002
 mshipp@ch.utah.gov

 4.2 Recipient Key Personnel.

          Name                                      Title or Position

          Mathew Shipp                              Public Works Director/City Engineer




                                                4 of 14
4.3 USDOT Project Contact(s).

Safe Streets and Roads for All Program Manager
Federal Highway Administration
Office of Safety
HSSA-1 , Mail Stop: E7 l-l l 7
1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.
Washington, DC 20590
202-366-2822
SS4A.FHWA@dot.gov

and

Agreement Officer (AO)
Federal Highway Administration
Office of Competitive Grants and Workforce Programs
HACG-30, Mail Stop W5 l-232
1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E.
Washington., DC 20590
HCFASS4A@dot.gov

and

Division Administrator - Utah
Agreement Officer' s Representative (AOR)
2520 W 4700 S, 9A, Salt Lake City, UT 84129
801-955-3500
hdaut@dot.gov

and

Russell Robertson
Utah Division Office Lead Point of Contact
Discretionary Grants Manager
2520 W 4700 S, 9A, Salt Lake City, UT 84129
801-955-3512
russeli.robertson@dot.gov




                                          5 of 14
                                 ARTICLE 5
                      USDOT ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION


5.1 Office for Subaward and Contract Authorization.

USDOT Office for Subaward and Contract Authorization: FHWA Office of Competitive Grants and
Workforce Programs

SUBAWARDS AND CONTRACTS APPROVAL

Note: See 2 CFR § 200.331, Subrecipient and contractor determinations, for definitions of subrecipient
(who is awarded a subaward) versus contractor (who is awarded a contract).

Note: Recipients with a procurement system deemed approved and accepted by the Government or by
the Agreement Officer (the "AO") are exempt from the requirements of this clause. See 2 CFR 200.3 l 7
through 200.327.

In accordance with 2 CFR 200.308(£)(6), the recipient or subrecipient shall obtain prior written approval
from the USDOT agreement officer for the subaward, if the subaward activities were not proposed in the
application or approved in the Federal award. This provision is in accordance with 2 CFR 200.308 (f)
(6) and does not apply to procurement transactions for goods and services. Approval will be issued
through written notification from the AO or a formal amendment to the Agreement.

The following subawards and contracts are currently approved under the Agreement by the AO. This list
does not include supplies, material, equipment, or general support services which are exempt from the
pre-approval requirements of this clause.

5.2 Reimbursement Requests

(a)    The Recipient may request reimbursement of costs incurred within the budget period of this
       agreement if those costs do not exceed the amount of funds obligated and are allowable under the
       applicable cost provisions of 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E. The Recipient shall not request
       reimbursement more frequently than monthly.

(b)    The Recipient shall use the DELPHI iSupplier System to submit requests for reimbursement to the
       payment office. When requesting reimbursement of costs incurred or credit for cost share incurred,
       the Recipient shall electronically submit supporting cost detail with the SF-270 (Request for
       Advance or Reimbursement) or SF-27 l (Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for
       Constmction Programs) to clearly document all costs incurred.

(c)    The Recipient's supporting cost detail shall include a detailed breakout of all costs incurred,
       including direct labor, indirect costs, other direct costs, travel, etc., and the Recipient shall identify
       the Federal share and the Recipient's share of costs. If the Recipient does not provide sufficient
       detail in a request for reimbursement, the Agreement Officer' s Representative (the "AOR") may
       withhold processing that request until the Recipient provides sufficient detail.

(d)    The USDOT shall not reimburse costs unless the AOR reviews and approves the costs to ensure
       that progress on this agreement is sufficient to substantiate payment.

(e)    In the rare instance the Recipient is unable to receive electronic funds transfers (EFT), payment by
       EFT would impose a hardship on the Recipient because of their inability to manage an account at
       a financial institution, and/or the Recipient is unable to use the DELPHI iSupplier System to
       submit their requests for disbursement, the FHWA may waive the requirement that the Recipient
       use the DELPHI iSupplier System. The Recipient shall contact the Division Office Lead Point of
       Contact for instructions on and requirements related to pursuing a waiver.

                                                6 of 14
(f)    The requirements set forth in these tenns and conditions supersede previous financial invoicing
       requirements for Recipients.


                                          ARTICLE6
                                     SPECIAL GRANT TERMS


6.1   SS4A funds must be expended within five years after the grant agreement is executed and DOT
      obligates the funds, which is the budget period end date in section 10.3 of the Terms and
      Conditions and section 2.4 in this agreement.

6.2   The Recipient demonstrates compliance with civil rights obligations and nondiscrimination laws,
      including Titles VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
      and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and accompanying regulations. Recipients of Federal
      transportation funding will also be required to comply fully with regulations and guidance for the
      ADA, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and
      all other civil rights requirements.

6.3   SS4A Funds will be allocated to the Recipient and made available to the Recipient in accordance
      with FHWA procedures.

6.4   The Recipient must coordinate its supplemental planning and/or demonstration activities with the
      jurisdiction that has an existing Action Plan in place that was used to apply for the supplemental
      planning and/or demonstration activities.

6.5   There are no other special grant requirements.




                                              7 of 14
                                     ATTACHMENT A
                          PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT INFORMATION

Study Area: City-wide Speed Management and Pedestrian Crossings; Fort Union Blvd Safety-Focused
Improvements Study

Table 1: Performance Measure Table

                                                                                  Measurement
                                                                                  Frequency and
                Measure                   Category and Description
                                                                                    Reporting
                                                                                     Deadline

                                                                                  Within 120 days
                  Costs             Project Costs: Quantification of the cost
                                                                                 after the end of the
                                    of each eligible project carried out using
                                                                                      period of
                                                    the grant
                                                                                    perfonnance

                                   Lessons Learned and Recommendations:
           Lessons Learned and                                                    Within 120 days
                                    Description of lessons learned and any
            Recommendations                                                      after the end of the
                                      recommendations relating to future
                                                                                       period of
                                   projects or strategies to prevent death and
                                                                                    performance
                                      serious injury on roads and streets.




                                                 8 of 14
                                         ATTACHMENT B
                                    CHANGES FROM APPLICATION

Describe all material differences between the scope, schedule, and budget described in the application and the
scope, schedule, and budget described in Article 3. The purpose of Attachment B is to clearly and accurately
document any differences in scope, schedule, and budget to establish the parties' knowledge and acceptance of
those differences. See Article 11 for the Statement of Work, Schedule, and Budget Changes. If there are no
changes, please insert "N/A" after "Scope," "Schedule," or "Budget." Ifthere are changes to the budget, please
complete the table below. Otherwise, leave the table below blank.


Scope: The original project scope was to constmct a one-mile-long 10 feet-wide shared use path along Bengal
Boulevard (Implementation grant) and to explore further safety enhancements on 2700 East and Fort Union
Boulevard (7000 South) (Supplemental Planning). In the end, the project was only awarded funds ($400,000)
to conduct the supplemental planning activities identified in the application.
The city seeks to expand the safety study (Supplemental Planning) to include other corridors/intersections
within the city, including the original 2700 East and Fort Union Blvd as mentioned above. The city believes the
current budget will allow completion of the original supplemental planning activities as well as add additional
locations to study.


Schedule: The application had a 21-month time to complete starting 4/ l/2025 and ending 12/31/2026. The
revised schedule holds to the 21-month time to complete. We are requesting the period of performance to be 24
months from the date of award.


Budget: Award was reduced from the requested amount of $4,950,858 to $400,000.


The table below provides a summary comparison of the project budget.


                                                     Application                   Section 3.3
        Fund Source
          Previously Incurred Costs
           (Non-Eligible Project Costs)
            Federal Funds
            Non-Federal Funds
          Total Previously Incurred Costs
          Future Eligible Project Costs
            SS4AFunds                              $4,950,858          80          $400,000          80
            Other Federal Funds                             $0          0                $0           0
            Non-Federal Funds                      $1,237,715          20          $ 100,000         20
           Total Future Eligible Project
            Costs
         Total Project Costs                       $6, 188,573        100          $500,000         100




                                                     9 of 14
ATTACHMENT C


 [RESERVED]




    10 of 14
ATTACHMENT D

 [RESERVED]




   11 of 14
                                             ATTACHMENT E
                                            LABOR AND WORK

       1.   Efforts to Support Good-Paying Jobs and Strong Labor Standards

       The Recipient states that rows marked with "X" in the following table are accurate:

              The Recipient or a project partner promotes robust job creation by supporting
            X good-paying jobs directly related to the project with free and fair choice to join
              a union. (Describe robust job creation and identify the good-paying jobs in the
              supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner will invest in high-quality workforce training
                programs such as registered apprenticeship programs to recmit, train, and retain
                skilled workers, and implement policies such as targeted hiring preferences.
                (Describe the training programs in the supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner will partner with high-quality workforce
                development programs with supportive services to help train, place, and retain
                workers in good-paying jobs or registered apprenticeships including through
                the use of local and economic hiring preferences, linkage agreements with
                workforce programs, and proactive plans to prevent harassment. (Describe the
                supportive services provided to trainees and employees, preferences, and
                policies in the supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner will partner and engage with local unions or
                other worker-based organizations in the development and lifecycle of the
                project, including through evidence of project labor agreements and/or
                community benefit agreements. (Describe the partnership or engagement with
                unions and/or other worker-based organizations and agreements in the
                supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner will partner with conuuunities or community
                groups to develop workforce strategies. (Describe the partnership and
                worliforce strategies in the supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner bas taken other actions related to the Project
                to create good-paying jobs with the free and fair choice to join a union and
                incorporate strong labor standards. (Describe those actions in the supporting
                narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner has not yet taken actions related to the
                Project to create good-paying jobs with the free and fair choice to join a union
                and incorporate strong labor standards but, before beginning construction of the
                Project, will take relevant actions described in Attaclunent B. (Identify the
                relevant actions from Attachment Bin the supporting narrative below.)
                The Recipient or a project partner has not taken actions related to the Project to
                improve good-paying jobs and strong labor standards and will not take those
                actions under this award.

       2. Supporting Narrative.

City of Cottonwood Heights will follow its normal procurement procedures and select the best-qualified
candidate to meet the project's needs. This action will enable the city to support good paying jobs and increase
the economy in the overall delivery of the project. This project allows for free and fair choice to join a union,
consistent with applicable laws.



                                                     12 of 14
                                   ATTACHMENT F
                CRITICAL SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE


1. Efforts to strengthen the Security and Resilience of Critical Infrastructure against both
Physical and Cyber Threats.


The Recipient states that rows marked with "X" in the following table are accurate:

         The Recipient demonstrates, prior to the signing of this agreement, effort to
         consider and address physical and cyber security risks relevant to the
         transportation mode and type and scale of the activities.
         The Recipient appropriately considered and addressed physical and cyber
         security and resilience in the planning, design and oversight of the project, as
         determined by the Department and the Department of Homeland Security.
         The Recipient complies with 2 CFR 200.216 and the prohibition on certain
         telecommunications and video surveillance services or equipment.


2. Supporting Narrative.

Project does not include the purchase of Infonnation Technology and/or Operational Technology.




                                              13 of 14
ATTACHMENT G

 [RESERVED]




 14 of 14
                                   ( ~'

                         Cottonwood Heights
                          City bm,-em the rnllJMJ




                                 5.2
                     Resolution 2026-19
By this resolution, the council will approve the appointment of
Councilmember Suzanne Hyland as the council's liaison to the
                      Youth City Council.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-19

                A RESOLUTION APPROVING APPOINTMENT OF A LIAISON
                 TO THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS YOUTH CITY COUNCIL

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Policy 4 of the internal policies (the "Policies") ofthe city cow1cil
(the " Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"), the City' s mayor (the "Mayor")
may from time-to-time delegate to a member of the Cow1cil, or remove a Council member from,
the duty to represent City' s interests on one or more legislative advisory committees under Section
2.30.180, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES ("CHC'), and/or City advisory
committees under CHC Chapter 2.140 ("Committees"); and

       WHEREAS, CHC Sections 2.140.301 through .306, inclusive, establish the Cottonwood
Heights Youth City Council (the " YCC'), a City advisory committee, and the Mayor has appointed
Council.member Suzanne Hyland as the City's liaison to the YCC; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met in a regular meeting on 7 April 2026 to consider, among
other things, approving such appointment and, after careful consideration, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to
approve such appointment;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
Councilmember Suzanne Hyland is hereby appointed to serve as the City' s liaison to the YCC, to
serve until replacement by the Mayor.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-19, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 April 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - - -- - - -                      B y : - - - - - - - - - - - -- -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea _ Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea _ Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of April 2026.

        RECORDED this _ day of April 2026.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-19

                 A RESOLUTION APPROVING APPOINTMENT OF A LIAISON
                  TO THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS YOUTH CITY COUNCIL

        'WHEREAS, pursuant to Policy 4 of the internal policies (the "Policies") ofthe city council
(the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"), the City's mayor (the "Mayor")
may from time-to-time delegate to a member of the Council, or remove a Council member from,
the duty to represent City' s interests on one or more legislative advisory committees under Section
2.30.180, COTTONWOOD HEIGIITS CODE OF ORDINANCES ("CH C '), and/or City advisory
committees under CHC Chapter 2.140 ("Committees"); and

       WHEREAS, CHC Sections 2.140.30 l through .306, inclusive, establish the Cottonwood
Heights Youth City Council (the " YCC'), a City advisory committee, and the Mayor has appointed
Councilmember Suzanne Hyland as the City's liaison to the YCC; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met in a regular meeting on 7 April 2026 to consider, among
other things, approving such appointment and, after careful consideration, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of City' s residents to
approve such appointment;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
Councilmember Suzanne Hyland is hereby appointed to serve as the City' s liaison to the YCC, to
serve until replacement by the Mayor.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-19, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 April 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - -- - - - - - -- - -                     By:
                                                    - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - -
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay _
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea _ Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7111 day of April 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of April 2026.
                               r:£\/'
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         Ciry br111-em the r,mpms




                                 5.3
                    Resolution 2026-20
    By this resolution the council will approve the manager's
reassignment and appointment of planning commissioners Garry
  Barnes and Rusty Lago due to Mr. Barnes' recent change of
              residence from District 2 to District 3.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-20

                     A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO APPOINTMENTS
                               TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION


        WHEREAS, the city council (the "CounciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met on 7 April 2026 to consider, among other things, proposed appointments to the City's
plaiming commission (the "Commission"); and

        WHEREAS, section 19.05.070 of the COTTON\1/OOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the
"Code") provides that any vacancy occurring on the Commission by reason of expiration of term
of office or otherwise shall be filled by the City's manager (the "Manager") with the advice and
consent of the Council; and

        WHEREAS, the Manager desires to re-assign and appoint (a) Garry Barnes, cunently a
regular member of the Commission representing District 2, to instead serve as an alternate member
of the Commission, and (b) Ruben (Rusty) Lugo, currently an alternate member of the
Commission, to instead serve as a regular member of the Commission representing District 2, with
such appointments to be effective through 30 June 2027 or until their successors are approved and
qualifie¢ and

     WHEREAS, the Council has given advice for the above-described appointments to the
Commission for the terms proposed by the Manager; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to consent to such appointments
to the Commission, with such appointments to be effective immediately;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Council hereby consents to the appointments to the Commission described above, and hereby
consents to, confirms ai1d ratifies the status of the following individuals as all the members of the
Commission as of 7 April 2026 for the terms of office set forth opposite each name:

       Name                           District                       T em1 Expires

       Mike Shelton                    1                             30 June 2028
       Ruben (Rusty) Lugo             2                              30 June 2027
       Dan Mills                      3                              30 June 2026
       Sean Steinman                  4                              30 June 2028
       Lucy Anderson                  3 (at large)                   30 June 2026
       Daniel Poulson                 4 (at large)                   30 June 2026
       Mike Smith                     1 (at large)                   30 June 2028
       Garry Barnes                   3 (Alternate)                  30 June 2027
     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-20, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED 7 April 2026.


ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



B y : - - - -- -- - - - --                By: - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                          Shawn E. N eweII             Yea_Nay_
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of tlie City Recorder this 7111 day of April 2025.

     RECORDED this _ day of April 2025.




                                             2
                                     ( ~        I


                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C,ry brtwm, 1hr ratlJOIU




                                   5.4
                      Resolution 2026-21
This resolution will approve the city's entry into an independent
  contractor agreement whereunder Ballard Venues LLC will
 provide event planning and coordination services for the city's
2026 "Butlerville Days" community event scheduled for 16-18
                           July 2026.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-2 1

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH BALLARD VENUES
             LLC FOR EVENT PLANNING AND COORDINATION SERVICES

       WHEREAS, the city council (the " Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 7 April 2026 to consider, among other things, approving an
independent contractor agreement (the "Agreement") with Ballard Venues LLC ("Provider")
whereunder Provider would provide event planning and coordination and related services in
c01mection with City's "Butlerville Days" community event scheduled for 16-18 July 2026 as
described in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver tbe Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-2 l , shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 April 2026.


ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - -- - -- - - - -                     By:----------------
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                                VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                                Suzaime Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of April 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of April 2026.
I
                          Independent Contractor Agreement
            THIS INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made
    effective _ March 2026 by COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address
    is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"), and by BALLARD
    VENUES LLC, a Utah limited liability company d/b/a The Ballard whose address is 14098
    Stone Canyon Drive, Draper, UT, 84020 ("Contractor"). In this Agreement, City and Contractor
    are each a "party" and collectively are the "parties."



            A.     City desires to obtain from a qualified provider event planning and coordination
    services reasonably necessary to stage City's "Butlerville Days'' community event (the "Event")
    scheduled to occur 16-18 July 2026 on the public property surrounding the Cottonwood Heights
    Recreation Center near 2700 East 7500 South in City (the "Event Site"). The Event includes
    attractions such as food trucks/booths, tented eating areas, commercial booths, historic display,
    carnival with various "rides", fireworks show, etc.

            B.      Contractor regularly provides such services and desires to provide such services
    to City for the Event.

           C.      City has determined to retain Contractor to provide the subject services.

            D.     By this Agreement, City desires to retain Contractor, and Contractor desires to be
    retained by City, to perform the subject services on the terms and conditions specified herein.

            E.     City and Contractor intend to identify herein the services to be perfonned for City
    by Contractor, the basis of compensation for such services, and to otherwise set forth their entire
    agreement concerning the subject services. Consequently, this Agreement sha11 supercede any
    and all prior or contemporaneous negotiations and/or agreements, oral and/or written, between
    the parties concerning the services to be provided under this Agreement.

                                         AGREEMENT:

            NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
    undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
    sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

            Section 1.     Scope of Services. Contractor shall provide to City all services
    (collectively, the "Services") that are reasonably necessary or advisable to plan and coordinate
    the various activities and attractions to stage the Event on the Event Site in a manner at least
    equivalent to City's 2025 Butlerville Days event, including without limitation those activities
    and attractions that are outlined in Recital A above and below, as well as all ancillary and
    associated services as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to complement and complete the
    Services (such as overseeing cleanup of the Event Site after the Event ends), all as contemplated
    by all applicable legal requirements and best practices. Subject to the foregoing, the Services
    shall include the following:

                  (a)   Phases. The Services shall include a planning phase running from the date
    hereof through the Event date, including regular committee meetings, managing timelines,
vendor sourcing, and logistical planning, plus an execution phase involving on-site management
for the full duration of the three-day Event.

                 (b)   Public Meetings. Contractor shall attend such public meetings concerning
the Services as City reasonably may direct. City shall schedule and advertise all public meetings
or hearings. City may request Contractor to make a presentation concerning the Services at one
or more public meetings to receive public input and direction from City. All reasonable and final
adjustments to the resulting Event reasonably requested by City will be made by Contractor prior
to its final staging.

             (c)     Schedule. It is anticipated that the Services will be fully rendered by about
20 July 2026. Contractor shall comply with and manage such performance schedule for the
component Services as City reasonably may direct upon reasonable prior notice to Contractor.

               (d)   Deliverables. Contractor shall provide all deliverables reasonably
contemplated by the nature of the Services, as well as such other documentation and deliverables
as City reasonably may request.

             (e)     Other Services. Contractor shall perform all other services and work as
may be mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.

If Contractor believes that any of the aforementioned Services merit payment of any additional
fee beyond the Fee (defined below), then Contractor shalt so infonn City in advance before
undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and
the not-to-exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Contractor to proceed with any such
additional services, City shall so inform Contractor in writing. Contractor may not perform any
additional services, or seek compensation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

       Section 2.      Performance of Services. City shall provide use of the Event Site and
necessary permits except those to be provided by vendors in connection with the Event. Except
as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Contractor shall furnish all supervision, personnel,
labor, materials, supplies and shalt obtain all licenses and permits required for performance of
the Services. The Services shall be pe1formed at Contractor's offices and other mutually-
agreeable places.

        Section 3.     Compensation. For full and timely performance of the Services, City
shall pay Contractor the amount of $20,000.00 (the ''Fee") plus any additional amount due under
the last paragraph of Section 1, above. City shall pay a deposit (the "Deposit") of $5,000 against
the Fee upon full execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Deposit is non-refundable
unless Contractor defaults under this Agreement and fails to timely cure such default, in which
case the Deposit shall be immediately refunded to City. The $15,000 balance of the Fee shall be
paid within seven days after the end of the Event. If payment is not remitted or reasonably
questioned to Contractor when due, Contractor shall be entitled to recover interest thereon at the
rate of 10% per annum from and after the date the remittance is due and payable.

        Section 4.     Change in Level of Services. City shall be freely entitled to modify
(increase or decrease) the level of the Services hereunder by providing at least five days' prior
written notice to Contractor of such change, provided that (a) any increase in the level of the
Services shall be subject to Contractor's reasonable approval, and (b) Contractor's compensation
shall be reasonably modified in connection with any such material increase in the Services to be
                                                -2-
'   performed hereunder.

            Section 5.     Suspension of Services. City shall have the absolute right to terminate the
    Services at any time without cost or liability to Contractor as provided in this Agreement. City
    also may by written notice direct Contractor to temporarily suspend performance of any or all of
    the Services for a specified period of time. If such suspension is not occasioned by the fault or
    negligence of Contractor, this Agreement may be modified to compensate Contractor for extra
    costs reasonably incurred as a result of said suspension, provided that any claim for adjustment is
    supported by appropriate cost documentation and asserted within 20 calendar days after the date
    that City issues an order for resumption of the Services. Upon its receipt of any such suspension
    notice, Contractor immediately shall (a) discontinue the Services; (b) place no further orders or
    subcontracts in connection with the Services; (c) suspend all outstanding orders and subcontracts
    in connection with the Services; (d) protect and maintain the existing work and work-product in
    connection with the Services; and (e) otherwise mitigate City's costs and liabilities for the
    suspended areas of the Services.

           Section 6.     Termination for Convenience. City may terminate this Agreement, or
    any part hereof, at any time with or without cause prior to its completion by sending to
    Contractor written notice of such tennination. Upon any such tennination, City shall pay to
    Contractor the full amount due for all Services satisfactorily performed by Contractor as of the
    date of tennination, excluding damages or anticipated profits on work not yet completed or
    performed. After one month from the date of this Agreement, Contractor may not terminate this
    Agreement without City' s prior written consent.

            Section 7.      Ownership of Designs and Drawings. All documents (whether printed or
    stored on paper or as electronic, magnetic, or digital information) produced or collected by
    Contractor in its performance of the Services (including, without limitation, original drawings,
    estimates, specifications, field notes and data) (collectively, the "Documents") are and shall
    remain the exclusive property of City. Conditioned only on City's payment to Contractor of the
    amounts due hereunder, at the conclusion of the Services or any earlier termination thereof
    Contractor shall deliver to City all Documents, whether or not complete. Contractor may, at its
    expense, reproduce for its own records the Documents so supplied to City. Contractor may not
    disclose, sell, use, publish or display any Documents or other information collected or produced
    in connection with its performance of this Agreement without City's prior written consent.

            Section 8.    Nondisclosure; Conflict of Interest Contractor shall not divulge to third
    parties without City's prior written consent any information obtained from or through City in
    connection with the performance of this Agreement. Unless waived by City, Contractor shall
    require its employees and subcontractors of any tier to adhere to the same covenant of
    nondisclosure. Contractor shall safeguard the confidentiality of any information obtained from or
    through City in connection with the performance of this Agreement to the same extent as
    Contractor safeguards the confidentiality of its own proprietary or confidential information.
    Contractor and its subcontractors shall not act as a Contractor in any matters adverse to City.

           Section 9.      Compliance with Laws. Contractor shall at all times comply with all
    applicable federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances, including,
    without limitation, those governing wages, hours, desegregation, employment discrimination,
    workers' compensation, employer's liability and safety. Contractor also shall comply with all
    applicable equal opportunity laws and regulations.

                                                    -3-
        Section 10. Patent and Copyright If Contractor's employees, officers, agents,
subcontractors of any tier, or anyone of a like nature in the performance of the Services or as a
result of perfonning the Services develop any trade secret, prepare any copyrighted material,
make any improvement, originate any invention, or develop any process or the like (collectively,
an "Innovation"), (a) such Innovation shall be the property of Contractor, but (b) Contractor shall
grant or cause to be used for the benefit of City (or for City's own internal use) the Innovation
for so long as City reasonably desires.

        Section 11. Independent Contractor Status. Contractor shall perform the Services as
an independent contractor, and all persons employed by Contractor in connection herewith shall
be employees or independent contractors of Contractor and not employees of Agency in any
respect.

              (a)    Control. Contractor shall have complete control and discretion over all
personnel providing Services hereunder.

             (b)   Sa/a,y and Wages. Agency shall not have any obligation or liability for
the payment of any salaries, wages or other compensation to personnel providing Services
hereunder.

                (c)    No Employment Benefits. All personnel providing Services are and shall
be and remain Contractor's employees, and shall have no right to any Agency pension, civil
service, or any other Agency benefits pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise.

        Section 12. Assignment Contractor shall not assign this Agreement, or any part
thereof, without City's prior written consent. Any attempted assignment in violation of this
section shall be void from its inception.

       Section 13. Subcontracts. Contractor shall not award any work to any subcontractor
without City's prior written approval, which approval will not be given until (a) Contractor
submits to City a written statement ( containing such information as City may require) concerning
the proposed award to the subcontractor, and (b) City has reasonably approved such proposed
subcontract.

Contractor shall be as fully responsible to City for the acts and omissions of Contractor's
subcontractors, and of persons either directly or indirectly employed by such subcontractors, in
the same manner as Contractor is liable for the acts and omissions of its own employees.
Contractor shall cause appropriate provisions to be inserted in all subcontracts to bind
subcontractors to Contractor by the terms and conditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable
to the work of subcontractors, and to give Contractor the same power to terminate any
subcontract as City may exercise over Contractor under this Agreement. Nothing in this
Agreement, and no course of dealing, shall create any contractual relationship between City and
any of Contractor's subcontractors.

         Section 14. Accounting and Auditing. Contractor shall keep accurate and complete
 records in support of all remuneration paid hereunder. City, or its audit representative, shall have
 the right at any reasonable time(s) to examine, audit, and reproduce all records pertaining to
 costs, including but not limited to payrolls, employees' time sheets, invoices, and all other
 evidence of expenditures for the Services. Such records shall be available for one year after
 completion of the Services.
                                                 -4-
,
           Section t 5.   Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be construed as
    granting to Contractor the exclusive right to perform any or all of the Services from time to time
    required by City.

           Section 16.    Indemnification.

                   (a)    By Contractor. Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless City and
    City's elected and appointed officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively,
    "City Parties") from and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, costs
    (including attorney fees), actions or proceedings (collectively, "Losses"), arising from or related
    to the breach by Contractor of its obligations under this Agreement or Contractor's intentional or
    negligent acts or omissions hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or
    arise from, Contractor's good faith reliance upon the instruction, direction, negligence or
    misconduct of any of the City Parties.

                   (b)     By City. City shall indemnify and hold harmless Contractor, its affiliates
    and each of their respective directors, officers, employees and subcontractors (collectively,
    "Contractor Parties") from any and all of any of Contractor Parties' Losses arising from or
    related to the breach by City of its obligations under this Agreement or the negligent acts or
    omissions of City hereunder, except to the extent that such Losses are caused by, or arise from
    City's good faith reliance upon the instruction, direction, negligence or misconduct of any of the
    Contractor Parties.

            Section 17. Insurance. Without limiting any obligations of Contractor, Contractor
    shall prior to commencing work secure and thereafter continuously throughout the term of this
    Agreement carry insurance in accordance with City's standard insurance requirements set forth
    on the attached exhibit (the "Exhibit") and shall furnish proof thereof satisfactory to City
    promptly when requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the following insurance
    requirements set forth on the Exhibit are modified as follows: (a) Professional Liability coverage
    under Section A(l) is modified to $1 Million for each claim and $3 Million aggregate; and (b)
    the requirement for Excess Liability coverage under Section A(S) is omitted.

            Section 18. Professional Responsibility. Contractor shall perform the Services using
    equal or higher standards of care, skill and diligence as normally provided by a professional in
    the performance of services similar to those contemplated hereunder. Without limiting any other
    remedies available to City, if Contractor fails to comply with such professional standards,
    Contractor shall, upon notice from City, promptly re-perform the sub-standard work at
    Contractor's sole cost.

            Section 19. Examination of Work. All Services shall be subject to examination by
    City at any reasonable time(s). City shall have the right to reject any unsatisfactory work. Neither
    examination of the Services, lack of the same, acceptance of the Services by City nor payment
    therefor shall relieve Contractor from its obligations under this Agreement regarding the quality
    and accuracy of the Services.

            Section 20. Progress. Contractor shall submit periodic written progress reports as
    reasonably requested by City. City or its agents or representatives may visit Contractor's offices
    at any reasonable time(s) to determine the status of the Services.

                                                    -5-
        Section 21.    Conflict Resolution. Except as otherwise provided herein, in the event of
a dispute between the parties regarding the Services which is not disposed of by agreement, the
resolution of the dispute shall be decided by City, which shall provide written notice of its
decision to Contractor. Such decision by City shall be final unless Contractor, within 30 calendar
days after such notice of City's decision, provides to City a written notice of protest, stating
clearly and in detail the basis thereof. Contractor shall continue its performance of this
Agreement during such resolution. If the parties do not agree, then the parties shall resolve the
dispute pursuant to section 22 below.

        Section 22.    Claims and Disputes. Claims, disputes and other issues between the
parties arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be decided by litigation in the Third
Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the
provisions hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Contractor shall continue to perform the
Services during any such litigation and City shall continue to make payments to Contractor in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 23.    Notice. Any notice required or pennitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such
notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the
parties at their addresses specified above or such substitute or additional addresses as a party
previously may have provided to the other parties through written notice.

       Section 24.    City's Cooperation. City will provide the following assistance to
Contractor in connection with the Services:

               (a)     Representative. Designate a representative of City to act as Contractor's
point of contact with respect to the Services.

               (b)    Information. Provide to Contractor access to all non-confidential
infomiation pertaining to the Services that is in City's possession or is reasonably available to
City. Contractor shall not be responsible for errors or omissions in any City-provided
infonnation, nor for delays in completing the Services attributable to City's delay in providing
required information.

                (c)   Sta[{Assistance. Such support of City's staff as City detennines, in its sole
discretion, to make available to Contractor.

        Section 25. Conflicts. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
 Agreement, the attached exhibits, or applicable legal requirements, Contractor shall (a) provide
 the better quality or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with the more beneficial
 requirements to City, either or both in accordance with City's reasonable interpretation.

       Section 26.     Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this
 Agreement:

                 (a)    Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
 for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and
 shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
 or parts hereof.
                                                -6-
I

                  (b)     Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
    used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the
    singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

                   (c)    Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
    and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

                   (d)    Integration. Th.is Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
    parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and
    understandings pertaining thereto.

                  (e)     Time. Time is the essence hereof.

                   (f)    Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties
    contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force
    and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.

                   (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of
    any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
    consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
    other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
    provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
    conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party.
    No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other
    covenant, agreement, term and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
    respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

                    (h)    Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
    not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
    shall not preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

                   (i)     Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision
    hereof is held to be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of
    this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If
    such condition, covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth,
    such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth permitted by law.

                   G)     Litigation. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
    with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the
    prevailing party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be paid
    by the non-prevailing party.

                  (k)     Exhibits. All exhibits annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a part
    of this Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either
    in this Agreement itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this
    Agreement and all such exhibits and writings.

                   (1)   Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
    counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
                                                   -7-
constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed and delivered
electronically by facsimile, pdf transmission or similar, with the same legal effect as manual
                                                                                                 '
execution and physical delivery.

                (m) Authorizations. Each person signing this Agreement represents and
warrants that (s)he is authorized to sign this Agreement for the party indicated.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                               CONTRACTOR:

                                               BALLARD VENUES LLC, a Utah limited
                                               liability company d/b/a The allard




                                               CITY:

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


B y : - - - -- - - - - - - -                   By: _ __________ _ _ __
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor




                                              -8-
I
                                     Exhibit to
                          Independent Contractor Agreement
                      INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTIES
                CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

           The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
    insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
    connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
    representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the
    contracting party's bid.

           A.      MINIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.

           The contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

                    1.      Professional Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
    occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, including "tail coverage" for
    at least one year after completion of all services.

                    2.     Automobile Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per accident
    for bodily injury and property damage. "Any Auto" coverage is required.

                   3.       Worker's Compensation: Worker's compensation limits as required by
    applicable law for all employees and other persons.

                   4.     Commercial General Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
    occurrence for personal injury and property damage; $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Broad
    Fann Commercial General Liability is required (ISO 1993 or better). Personal injury, premises-
    operations, products-completed operation, independent contractors and subcontractors fire legal
    liability and, when appropriate, coverages for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU)
    hazards.

                   5.     Excess Liability. $5,000,000.00.

           B.      DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS.

            Any deductibles (5% limit), self-insured programs or retentions must be declared to and
    approved by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"). At the option of the City, either: the
    insurer may be required to reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as
    respect to the City, its officers, officials and employees; or the contracting party may be required
    to procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution
    and defense expenses.

           C.      NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT.

            The contracting party shall agree to promptly disclose to the City all incidents or
    occurrences of accident, injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or
    policies.
                                                 -9-
       D.      OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS.

       The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

               l.     General Liability and Automobile Liability Coverages.

                      (a)    The City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers are to be
covered as additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities performed by or on
behalf of the contracting party; products and completed operations of the contracting party;
premises owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting party. The coverage shall contain
no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the City, its officers, officials,
employees or volunteers.

                       (b)     The contracting party's insurance coverage shall be a primary
insurance as respects to the City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall be
in excess of the contracting party's insurance and shall not contribute with it.

                       (c)     Any non-material failure to comply with reporting provisions of
the policies shall not affect coverage provided to the City, its officers, officials, employees or
volunteers.

                     (d)    The contracting party's insurance shall apply separately to each
insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the
insurer's liability.

               2.      Worker 's Compensation and Employer's Liability Coverage.

                The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against the City, its
officers, officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work performed by the
contracting party for the City.

               3.     All Coverages.

               Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that
coverage shall not be cancelled before its expiration date except after thirty (30) days' prior
written notice (from the insurer) by first class mail, return receipt requested, has been given to
the City.

       E.      ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS.

              Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a Bests' rating of no less than A:VII,
unless approved by the Manager.

       F.      VERIFlCATION OF COVERAGE.

              The contracting party shall furnish the City with certificates of insurance and with
original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and
endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
                                               -10-
behalf. The certificates and endorsements are to be on forms provided before work commences.
The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies,
with all endorsements, at any time.

       G.      SUBCONTRACTORS.

                The contracting party shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policy
or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.




                                                - 11-
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          City btt UYfll th~ <Jlt)'OIIJ




                                    5.5
                     Resolution 2026-22
    This resolution will amend the minimum bid, method of
    determining minimum bid, and/or minimum bid amount
  specified in Resolution 2025-68 for a certain surplus 1998
International "Command Post" vehicle that has failed to attract
              acceptable offers at its current price.
                                                                                            ~                1. ,'
                                                                                             (@~o:~ood                   Heights
                                                                                               c.,,1,,r,,,...,.,,,,J.,,,1'7-,u




Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting ~    Work Session ~    Other □
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes IZl No D Undetermined D
                            Denied D Approved ~ ~~)j9ued D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature: ~ ,;{L_

CITY COUNCIL CONSIDERATION
Subject: Declaration of Surplus Vehicle

Recommendation:
The Police Department/Emergency Management Unit respectfully requests that the City Council declare the
following vehicle as surplus property:

   •   Vehicle: 1998 International Command Post
   •   Mileage: 31,437
   •   VIN: 1HTSCABL9WH541607

Due to difficulties in obtaining a bid sufficient to cover the previous minimum value of $4,000 Scott Jurges
recommends this vehicle be listed for surplus and dis osed of utilizing negotiated sale or auction company and
a minimum value of $1,000.
Background:
The Police Department has detennined that the current Command Post vehicle has outlived its usefulness.
Maintenance and repair costs have become excessive, and the unit no longer meets the department's operational
needs.
Future Vision:
The department proposes to sell the surplus vehicle and apply the proceeds, combined with other capital funds,
toward the purchase of a modem command trailer. The envisioned trailer would:

   •   Require minimal maintenance,
   •   Be towable by existing police vehicles, and

   •   Allow for faster deployment with updated, state-of-the-art components.

Requested Action:
Approve the declaration of the 1998 International C01mnand Post as surplus property and authorize its removal
from the City's active fleet inventory, with sale proceeds designated toward the acquisition of a modem
c01mnand trailer.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTIONNO. 2026-22

                A RESOLUTION AMENDING SURPLUSING REQUIREMENTS

       WHEREAS, §2.150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution 2025-68 dated 7 October 2025 the City's city council
(the "Council") approved the recommendation by the City's finance director (the "Director") to
surplus a certain vehicle (the "Vehicle") described on attached Addendum "A" (the "Addendum")
for the minimum bid, method of determining the value, and/or method of disposition (the
"Parameters") specified in Resolution 2025-68; and

       WHEREAS, because efforts to dispose of the Vehicle within the Parameters have been
unsuccessful, the Director has recommended modifying them as shown on the Addendum; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 April 2026 to consider, among other things, modifying
the Parameters as shown on the Addendum; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so modify the Parameters;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Parameters for disposal of the Vehicle are hereby modified as shown on the Addendum.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-22, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 April 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - -- - -- -- - -- -                     By:-- - -- - -- - -- - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea _Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                   Yea _ Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell               Yea _ Nay _
                                              Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this th day of April 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of April 2026.
                                   Addendum "A"
          Surplus Item             Minimum   Method ofDisposal
                                     Bid
1998 International Command Post,    $1,000   Negotiated sale or
  VIN 1HTSCABL9WH541607                      auction company




                                         2
