Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting IZI   Work Session IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?     Yes □ No IZI Undetermined D
                           Denied D Approved ~ Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                           CM Signature: - -~ ~ _fl__



Agendas - Agendas for April 21, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 3/3/2026 and the Mayor
and City Council Retreat on 3/24/26.


CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING

3.0    REPORTS
3a.    Visit Salt Lake Ryan Mack, Chief Communications and Experience Officer



4.0    STAFF REPORTS
4a.    Economic Development Strategy Jared Gerber
4b.    Utah Renewable Communities Update Sheldon Howa
4c.    Butler Hills Crosswalk Discussion Matt Shipp
4d.    FlashVote - Next Survey Discussion Jared Gerber
CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

5.0   Reports
5.1   Finance Quarterly Report Scott Jurges

6.0   Action Items
6.1   Ordinance 463
6.2   Resolution 2026-23
6.3   Resolution 2026-24
6.4   Resolution 2026-25
6.5   Resolution 2026-26
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      City b<tuYm the r,mJYJIIJ




                     AGENDAS

                    April 21, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, April 21, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     l.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay l3mn Bennion

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.     REPORTS
                   a. Visit Salt Lake - Ryan Macie, Chi,e f Commun.ications and Experience
                      Officer (20 min.)

              4.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide i.ufonualional 11eporls as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda iiem is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or/or stafflo bring the council up lo date
                     regarding any changes since the reporl was made).

                   a. Economic Development Strategy Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (30 min.)
                   b. Utah Renewable Communities Update
                        Planner III Sheldon Howa (20 min)
                   c. Butler Hills Crosswalk Discussion
                        Public Works Director Matt Shipp (20 min.)
                   d. FlashVote - Next Survey Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)


              5.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                     a. Sapling Sale - Saturday, April 25, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the
                        Parking Lot at City Hall
                     b. Family Support Center Pinwheels for Prevention Planting - Saturday,
                        April 25th at 9:00 a.m. with a program at 10:30 a.m. at City Hall
                     c. Public Works Open House for Residents - Wednesday, May 20th from
                        5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the Public Works Building
                     d. Shred Event- Monday, June l, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside
                        Plaza (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit)
     e. CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event- Saturday, June 6, 2026, 10:00 a.111. to
        1:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
     f. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July I 8, 2026
     g. Block Party/Monster Mash/Tnmk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at
        Hillside Plaza

     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Communitv
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                    ~~~-Id~~\ I
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                           City between the canyom


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, April 21, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/(a)CottonwooclHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorcler(a)ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE -By Invitation

               3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               3.1     Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2     Committee Reports by Councihnember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3 .3    Committee Reports by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3.4     Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5     Conunittee Reports by Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (3 min.)

               4.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not lo exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are submitted timely will be admitted into the
                      record qf the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.
5.0    REPORTS
5 .1   Finance Quarterly Report - Finance Director Scott ]urges

6.0    ACTION ITEMS
6. 1   Consideration of Ordinance 463 Approving a Second Driveway Exception
       at I 720 East 6670 South.
       (Pursuant lo Collonwood Heights Code 14.12. 150 this ordinance will grant an
       exception to Collonwood Heights Code 14.12.1 J0(B)(l) by approving a second
       driveway access to 6670 South).
6.2    Consideration of Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to
       Agreement for Building Services.
       (Th;s resolution 1,vi/l approve the city's entry into the first amendment to the current
       agreement for building services whereunder Sunrise Engineering, LLC provides
       plan review and building inspection services lo the city. The main pu,pose of the
       amendment is lo extend its term from 30 June 2026 to 30 June 2029).
6.3    Consideration of Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to the
       Architectural Review Commission.
       (TMs resolution will approve the reappointment of Seo/I Peters and Jesse Allen to
       the city's Architectural Review Commission).).
6.4    Consideration of Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain Property Surplus.
       (By this resolution, the council will declare swplus and designate the melhod of
       disposition of a Ford F-150 vehicle owned by the city).
6.5    Consideration of Resolution 2026-26Approving Entry into an Interlocal
       Agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for
       Participation in the Wildland Fire Program.
       (By this resolution, the council will approve the city's enhy into an interlocal
       agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for participation
       in the division's "Wild/and Fire Program" lo cooperatively meet their joint
       responsibilities for protecting non-federal land from wild/andfire).

7.0    CONSENTCALENDAR
7.1    Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
       Meetings of March 3, 2026, and the Mayor and Council Retreat on March
       24, 2026.

8.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public conunent may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to conunent during the Public Conm1ent period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to conunent shall limit their comments to
      no more than tlu·ee (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who
      are present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five
      (5) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the co.nunent period shall be allowed to comment
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue witl1 the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
      In such cases, special procedures for detem1ining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
      speakers will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
      submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read
      at the public meeting.



011 Thursday, April 16, 2026, a copy oftheforegoi11g no/ices was posted in conspicuous view in thefrontfoyerofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Ojjices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Salt Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers ofgeneral circulation in the city, by the Office of the City Recorder. T7ie agendas were
also posted on the City's website at www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website al hrrp:llp11111.111ah. gov.

DATED this 16th day ofApril 2026                                Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accom111odatio11 or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or recorder({t'c/1.111alu;01 ·. al least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                   '-&,,~      111.i( Jt\\ I

                        Cottonwood Heights
                        Ciry lmu<tm 1/,r t'dTl)VIIS




                MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 3/3/2026 and Mayor and
       City Council Retreat Minutes on 3/24/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present: Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne
Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present: City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director, Scott
Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City
Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT
Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire
Authority, Riley Pilgrim; Communications Manager, Beatriz Mayorga

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
led by City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen, foUowed by the Citizen Comment Period.

Two Action Items w_ere on the agenda. Item 4.1 was consideration of Resolution 2026-16
Approving an Agreement with Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. City Engineer,
Matt Shipp, reported that the agreement was part of the Community Redevelopment and Renewal
Area ("CDRA") project near 3000 East. CDRA funds need to be expended. Most projects in the
area had been completed, but the intersection where Big Cottonwood Trail crosses 3000 East can
be improved. The crosswalk is heavily used, and they would like to improve safety by adding
lights, a textured crosswalk, bump-outs, etc. The project will be funded solely through the CDRA.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that they also
considered the mid-block crossing near the hotel, but there were not enough remaining funds for
both crosswalks and the Big Cottonwood Trail crossing is much more heavily used by walkers,
joggers, and cyclists. In response to a follow-up question, he confirmed that funds were available
for both engineering and construction.

Council Member Birrell spoke with the Active Transpmiation Subcommittee and their preference
was for a raised crosswalk. A median or other way to create visual friction would also be
beneficial. Mr. Shipp stated that they were considering all alternatives, but that location is not
ideal for a raised crosswalk because it is at a traffic light. They are also considering a refuge island
and bump-outs. Council Member Birrell recommended that the Active Transportation
Subcommittee be included in discussions related to pedestrian and cyclist safety.

Mayor Bennion stated that she spoke about the project with City Manager, Jared Gerber, and was
happy that the funds were being put to good use.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     1
Council Member Birrell asked if CDRA funds could be used to extend the work to smooth the
asphalt on the trail, which stopped east of the traffic light on 3000 East. Mr. Shipp reported that
all work within the CDRA had been completed and funds could not be used for other p01tions of
the trail.

Item 4.2 was consideration of Resolution 2026-18 Approving an Agreement with the State of Utah
Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo, and Identity. This item was discussed during
Staff Repo1ts.

3.0     REPORTS

       3.1    Ridgecrest Elementary/Bella Vista Elementary Update - Principal Sarah
       Allen.

Ridgecrest Elementary School Principal, Sarah Allen, reported that Canyons School District voted
to close Bella Vista Elementary and consolidate the two schools at Ridgecrest, which will result
in changes to the school' s boundaries and send some students to East Midvale Elementary. The
transition team includes principals of both schools, community councils, parent-teacher
organizations, and leadership teams, and is working to mitigate concerns and build unity between
the schools.

At the first transition meeting, concerns were expressed over whether the Bella Vista community
would be welcomed at Ridgecrest. An open house was held the next week, and she believes it was
a turning point in the h·ansition. The transition team next considered events that can begin to build
unity. Children from Bella Vista have begun attending the Ridgecrest skate nights, and they plan
to have joint after-school picnics dming the year. There will also be a joint talent show on April
17 at 6:00 p.m. at Butler Middle School.

The transition team also discussed possibly renaming or rebranding the school. However, there
was not enough time to rename it by Fall, and the school board was not interested in renaming it.
Instead, they focused on what the schools 1mve in common. They share school colors, orange and
blue. Both school mascots are tigers, and next year, Ridgecrest will have both Bella and Reggie
the Tiger as mascots. The school board had proposed rebuilding Ridgecrest, and that may be the
time to rename the school.

Ms. Allen stated that school visitors are frequently confused by the street name. The street in front
of the school is 7200 South, but people think of it as Fort Union Boulevard. She then played a
video prepared by the fifth graders proposing that the name be changed to Tiger Cub Lane. If the
proposal was approved, they hoped to coordinate it with the refresh of the school's branding and
announce it in early Fall.

Council Member Newell appreciated the transition team' s efforts in creating unity.

Council Member Birrell stated that when she first heard about Bella Vista closing, her p1imary
concern was safety. Parents were disappointed that their children would have to travel further to

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     2
school. She volunteered to start a bike bus for children from the north side of Fort Union
Boulevard to safely cross the road and get to school. Ms. Allen stated that buses will be available
for those students, and there had been discussions about providing crossing guards to ensure that
children who bike or walk to school can cross safely.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp stated that a lot of
underlying work is required for an official name change. An honorary name change would be
much easier. Ms. Allen stated that their goal was to officially change the name. They would like
people to understand that 7200 South is not Fort Union Boulevard. Some community members
who live on 7200 South had expressed suppo11, but they had not spoken to everyone. Council
Member Newell asked if the proposal was for the full length of 7200 South. Ms. Allen stated that
it cuts off p1ior to the Target. It is 7205 South on the east side of Highland Drive.

Council Member Newell stated that the costs would need to be researched. He worked on
renaming a shorter street in Salt Lake City. It was not as long, so it was not as expensive to change
signage, addresses, etc. In response to a question from Ms. Allen, he stated that honorary names
are easier because it is only a change to the street signs, not official addresses. Council Member
Hyland stated that an official name change would require all legal documents to be changed to
match the new address, and her preference was for an honorary name. Mr. Shipp stated that he
could research costs, but changing signs was not a barrier. Only a handful of homes front on 7200
South but officially changing the road name would require their banking, mortgage, etc. documents
to be changed. Ms. Allen stated that adding the honorary name to school documents in addition
to signage may help people find the school.                                 •

Mayor Bennion stated that as the school is in Council Member Bolton's district, he should speak
to residents who would be affected by the change. She thanked Ms. Allen and the Ridgecrest
Elementary School teachers and students for attending.

Mr. Shipp reported that Ridgecrest Elementary had accepted the American Public Works
Association's National Public Works Week invitation and will visit the Public Works building on
May 19. The City Council was welcome to attend.

        3.2     Prevent Child Abuse Utah - Deondra Brown.

Mayor Bennion introduced Deondra Brown from Prevent Child Abuse Utah. Ms. Brown stated
that she is an advocate for victims of crime and protecting children from abuse. She is also a
pianist with the 5 Browns and has a passion for children and the kinds of cmmnunities that are
created for them. Ms. Brown's life was shaped by childhood abuse, but her healing and subsequent
advocacy were framed by the people who stepped in later to help shoulder her burden. She has
dedicated her life to preventing abuse and protecting families so they can find the safety, support,
and hope they need.

April is Child Abuse Prevention Month, which represents a shared commitment to keep children
safe and strengthen families. It is about recognizing that children are the most valuable resource,
and strong families are the root of strong communities. The example proclamation that had been
provided in the StaffRepo11 represents values Cottonwood Heights already believes in. Preventing

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     3
abuse takes effort from everyone, and she has seen that prevention works best at the local level.
The sample proclamation was a statement of shared values and responsibility that would formalize
Cottonwood Heights' commitment to the safety and wellbeing of its children. By recognizing
Apiil as Child Abuse Prevention Month, the City will affitm that children deserve safe, stable, and
nurturing enviromnents and the City' s leaders stand alongside families in making it possible.

In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, City Attorney, Shane Topham reported that
Proclamation 2020-04 was signed by Mayor Peterson and the City Council and is a continuing
resolution declaring every April Child Abuse Prevention Month. Mayor Bennion stated that she
met with United Fire Autho1ity Chief, Riley Pilgiim and representatives of the Police Department
and learned more about the rate of child abuse in the City and its ties to divorce and other
challenges. She recommended that Child Abuse Prevention Month be recognized in the Apiil
newsletter.

Council Member Birrell stated that she attended a daylong conference on the subject two years
previously. The rate of child sexual abuse is very high. She fully supports building greater
awareness and doing more to prevent child abuse, as children are the foundation of today' s society
and tomorrow's leaders.

Ms. Brown stated that it is a child safety issue, and children should be educated in the same way
they learn what law enforcement does. The stigma around discussing child abuse can be removed,
and children and families can know that strengthening families and protecting kids is one of the
City's core values.

Council Member Newell stated that the Health in the Heights Coalition may be able to facilitate
education around the topic. Council Member Hyland remarked that child abuse prevention and
substance use disorder prevention are tied together in strengthening families.

Police Chief, Robby Russo stated that the Police Department has zero tolerance for c1imes again
women and children. They have a good relationship with area schools and a great victim advocate
who can help people navigate through the system. In response to his question, Ms. Brown stated
that the ribbons and pins are blue and silver. Mr. Russo stated that he will purchase blue and silver
t-shi1ts for officers to wear under their uniforms during the month of April. Ms. Allen repo1ted
that Wear Blue Day is April 10.

Mayor Bennion expressed appreciation for the City leaders who chose to declare April Child
Abuse Prevention Month in perpetuity.

        3.3     CHPRD Master Plan Presentation - Lyse Durrant.

Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation District ("CHPRD") Executive Director, Lyse Durrant,
was joined by Patti Hansen and Dennis Magaro. Ms. DuTI"ant repo1ted that the Cottonwood
Heights Recreation Center Master Plan was updated in 2025. The Master Plan considers how the
60-year-old building can be updated.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                     4
An aerial photograph of the Recreation Center and Butler Park was displayed. CHPRD
participates in partnerships and interlocal agreements with the Canyons School District, Salt Lake
County, and Salt Lake City Public Utilities. She then reviewed diagrams of the Recreation Center
for the 1983 and 2011 additions.

The architects reco1mnended a five-phase process for updating the Recreation Center, which was
subsequently nmTowed down to two phases.

Phase One: Outdoor Pool Redevelopment:

   •    The pool was built in the early 1980s and has exceeded its service life.
           o The first option would replace the existing pool entirely, reorient it east-west, and
               build a new recreation pool. However, this would remove needed parking and
               cause issues with staging.
           o The second option would replace and remient the pool but maintain the existing
               recreation pool and amenities.
   •    They hope to apply for Zoo, Arts, and Parks ("ZAP") tax funding for this project once it
        opens for parks. Zap tax funds were used to build the dive tank in 2017.

Phase Two: New Recreation Center Construction:

   •    This phase will include all amenities with the exception of the ice rink and outdoor pools.
           o Parking lot and entryway
           o Childcare area
           o Indoor aquatic facilities
           o Indoor walking and jogging track
           o Multi-sport courts
           o Open cardio and weight areas
           o Group fitness studios
           o Administration
           o Building support spaces
           o Community and senior center
           o Ice sheet upgrades

Exterior and interior concept drawings were reviewed. Parking would be moved to the south side
of the facility and there would be one entrance and an elevator. The building currently has three
entrances, which is hard to staff m1d maintain. A new maintenance building would also be
constructed on the western portion of the prope1iy.

Phase Two would require a general obligation ("GO") bond and was anticipated to begin in
approximately five years. CHPRD was working with McKinstry to determine ways to finance
equipment through utility cost savings. The total cost for both phases was estimated at $88 million.

Council Member Hyland stated that she and Council Member Birrell met with representatives from
Salt Lake County Aging and Adult Services who indicated that the model is for the city to own the


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     5
building and the county to conduct the programming. They also explained that the best use of a
Senior Center was to use it for seniors during the day and open it to the c01mnunity at night. She
appreciated that CHPRD considered that more efficient utilization of the resource in its plan.

4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Communications Strategy/Newsletter Discussion -           City Manager, Jared
                 Gerber.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City Council had previously discussed eliminating the printed version
for the newsletter, which would save approximately $69,000 per year. Moving it online would
also allow for more flexible deadlines.

Communications Manager, Beatriz Mayorga reported on cun-ent statistics.

      •   Email: 1,029 active email subscribers, with 359 subscribed to only the newsletter.
          In response to a question from Council Member Bin-ell, Ms. Mayorga reported that there
          is no way to track how many subscribers live in the same household.
      •   The open rate on newsletters is 33% on weekends and 35% on weekends. Government
          email open rates are typically between 20% and 23%.
      •   Facebook: 3,561 followers. The March newsletter had 1,800 content views but only 29
          link clicks.
      •   Instagram: 2,986 followers. The March newsletter had 43 7 views and four link clicks. The
          Instagram story related to the newsletter only had 254 views.
      •   Twitter: 3,403 followers.
      •   Nextdoor: 198 views.
      •   Total combined digital subscribers: Approximately 10,000 residents.

Ms. Mayorga reported that there are a high number of subscribers but low engagement. Women
are more active on the City's social media than men, and the average age is between 30 and 50.
Council Member Hyland stated that the City may have 3,000 followers, but posts will only have
12 likes and one comment. Engagement is drastically lower than in previous years. That is a trend
throughout social media and not specific to Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Newe11 stated that moving the newsletter to digital delivery only is a good idea,
but the City's residents are accustomed to receiving a hard copy in the mail. He believes it will be
a long transition. Ms. Mayorga stated that she included a blurb in the March newsletter
encouraging residents to subscribe to emails. The City used to broadcast the signup link on social
media but stopped doing so, and she believes they can get more subscribers if they start pushing
that infonnation again.

Mr. Gerber indicated that the website has an optional texting module that costs $18,000 per year
and could be used for both the newsletter and other announcements. A neighboring city uses the
module to send residents a text that says, "The newsletter is ready. Click here to read it."
Formatting also has to be considered as the newsletter would need to be mobile friendly. Printed

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     6
copies could be available at City Hall, the library, and community centers. Staff discussed an opt-
in mail version, but that would not decrease costs significantly. There could also be a quarterly
printed version.

Council Member Birrell stated that she did not know how many seniors were signed up for
FlashVote, but an effort should be made to survey residents. She suggested that the newsletter
could be a citizen-driven initiative and the mailed version could be a single black-and-white sheet.
In response to her question, Mr. Gerber clarified that the total yearly cost of $69,000 includes both
printing and mailing costs. Council Member Birrell stated that they should also consider how
much of Ms. Mayorga's time is spent fotmatting the print newsletters because that also has a
monetary value.

Ms. Mayorga stated that the texting option would appeal to more residents as it is more streamlined
and easier to read. She included a small, three-question survey in a 2025 newsletter and only
received 10 responses.

Council Member Hyland stated that her son brought Draper's opt-in texting system to her attention.
They need to be careful not to spam people with infonnation, but texting appeals to people under
40. She hates to increase costs, but the City must keep up with changing communications trends,
and there is no engagement on Facebook and Instagram. She believes the texting option should
be considered, as well as moving to a q11arterly printed newsletter. Ms. Mayorga stated that they
could work on how much infmmation should be put out in the monthly digital version and would
have the benefit of being able to make last-minute changes. Council Member Birrell brought up
the example of tree care, which was added to the newsletter very quickly. She agreed with Council
Member Hyland's suggestion and noted that it would provide the transition period Council
Member Newell had referenced. Council Member Newell stated that he likes the idea of going
digital, and the data on how many people decline to opt-in to text messages may be helpful.

In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Gerber stated that he would need to obtain
quotes on quarterly physical newsletters as it will differ from monthly costs. Council Member
Hyland stated that Draper's newsletter is double fold, which may be less expensive.

Mr. Gerber reporte9 that depending on the cost savings from the newsletter, he would like the City
Council to consider the SeeClickFix app, which can be branded for the City. If someone sees a
pothole or graffiti, for example, they can submit a picture of it that is geotagged and sent to the
cmTect department. Council Member Hyland stated that it would be a friction point because
residents would be required to download another app. She would like to reduce friction for City
licensing prior to considering another app.

Council Member Hyland stated that the transition timeline should be considered. The City may
need to print the monthly newsletter for one more year and include an announcement each month
that it will be moving to quarterly and encouraging people to sign up for text messages.

        4.2     America 250 Discussion -Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, reported on American250 Utah to celebrate
America's semi-quincentennial anniversary. Utah's American250 Commission's mission is to
honor our nation's past, celebrate our present, and inspire a future that upholds the values that
define us as a nation and state. They want to hold statewide celebrations and activities and support
cities, communities, and schools. Their goal is to be both inspirational and low-cost, and
participation is free.

Utah America250 has a three-pronged goal to educate, engage, and unite with the following
signature programs:

    •   500 for Our Future is a K-12 Education program for teachers and parents who homeschool
        their children. Resources can be found on the State website.
    •   Walk250 Utah encourages everyone who can walk or roll in Utah to do 250 miles in 2026.
        Residents can log their miles on the website. Ms. Higgins passed the information on to the
        Employee Wellness Council, but it would also be great for the Health in the Heights
        Coalition.
    •   Exploring the Declaration at 250 Speaker Series will be a series of presentations about
        America's history. PBS will be uploading those presentations onto their YouTube channel.
    •   "The Pen is Mightier" Exhibit about the writing of the Constitution will be at the State
        Capitol all year. A mobile exhibit will also be visiting each county in Utah.
    •   Serving a Common Cause encourages everyone in Utah to do service projects. Anyone
        with at least five hours of service can log their time on to the State website and will receive
        a certificate from Lieutenant Governor Henderson. You can also nominate another person.
    •   America's Potluck will be held on Sunday, July 5. Utah led the initiative, and to date 49
        states and Puerto Rico had joined. Residents can pin their potluck on the State website and
        either mark it as private or share the location for others to join.
    •   Free Sticker sheets are available at all libraries and Zions Bank branches.

Ms. Higgins reported that Mr. Topham had drafted a resolution and licensing agreement for
America250 Utah. If the City Council chose to sign the agreement, Cottonwood Heights would
receive its own America250 Utah Cottonwood Heights logo use at no charge. Some cities are
selling shirts and other merchandise, and it can also be put on letterhead or electronic signatures.

Council Member Hyland stated that she read the agreement and thought it was very generous.
There is no cost to the City, and the State' s only request is that the logo not be altered. She would
like the America's Potluck fo be promoted in the newsletter. People should be encouraged to reach
out and create the neighborhood feel that they long for. Council Member Newell stated that there
are large July 4 breakfasts every year that could affect attendance, although people could choose
to do both. Council Member Hyland stated that her community is talking about the potluck
because it is such a special celebration.

Ms. Higgins suggested that the City could hold an America250 student essay contest with the City
Council voting on the winners. Mayor Bennion stated that she heard about America250 Utah at
the Council of Mayors meeting, and she appreciated Staff for working quickly on the agreements.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     8
5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Local Business Smartest Artist Lobby Art Exhibit - Monday, February 20 to
                Monday, March 18, 2026.
        5.2     The Jazz Ambassadors of the US Army Field Band - Thursday, March 19
                from 7:00 PM to 8:30 PM at Butler Middle School. (Tickets required, free
                event, See City website for additional information).

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Memoer Highland. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:25 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026   Approved: _ _ __   _

                                                     9
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND
RENEWAL AGENCY ("CDRA") BUSINESS MEETING HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3,
2026, AT 5:30 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL ROOM
LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:            Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member
                    Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:      City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                    Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Culture, and Human
                    Resources Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                    Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager,
                    Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire
                    Authority, Riley Pilgrim

1.0       WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 5:34 PM.

2.0       DISCUSSION

          2.1    Town Center Open Space Discussion - City Manager Jared Gerber I CED
                 Director Jim Spung.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, reported that representatives of Onyx and Thrive were present to hear
the City Council's feedback and answer any questions. Their intent was to understand the
Council's vision for the two acres of open space at the Town Center so they can begin working on
its design.

Commu_nity and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, distributed a list of key
conside1:ations for the discussion. The Concept Plan for the Town Center encompasses 4.97 acres
of retail and office space, 2.10 acres of open space, and 4.20 acres of residential. The initial
concept included a covered stage or perfonnance space, a flex area to accommodate events like
farmers' markets or yoga, a pedestrian pathway, and a slope up to the residential area.

Mr. Spung reviewed aerial images of the City's parks and their size in relation to the Town Center
open space. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, he clarified that no
parking was included in the open space calculation. He then reviewed photographs of Belmar
Square in Lakewood, Colorado, which was part of a shopping mall that the City demolished and
turned into a mixed-use town center.

Key considerations include:

      •   Clear purpose
             o What is the primary role of the space?


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     10
            o is it intended to function as a daily civic "living" room, an event venue, or a hybrid?
            o How should it reflect Cottonwood Heights' identity and character?
    •   Programming and activation
            o Any successful open space is the result of its programming and design
            o Will there be dedicated funding and staffing for ongoing events?
            o How frequently should the space be programmed?
            o What infrastructure is needed to support regular activation?
    •   Flexibility within a limited footprint
            o How to balance lawn, plaza, and landscaped areas?
            o Are features multi-use or single-purpose?
    •   Year-round comfo1i and safety
            o Shade in summer and usability and winter
    •   Maintenance and long-term costs
            o What are the life cycles of proposed features or amenities?
            o Staffing and maintenance costs
    •   Connectivity and economic impact
            o The programming can be restaurants and other attractions, but it is important to
                contribute to those businesses' success and not detract from it
    •   Phasing and adaptability
            o Are there features that could be included at a later time?
            o How is the space adapted over time?

Mr. Spung reported that the handout included a list of design ideas that were provided by the City
Council and citizen groups. He encouraged the Council to review the list and give feedback on
what they would like t9 see in the space. The space is only slightly more than two acres and a lot
of ideas were provided.

Council Member Newell stated that it was impo1iant to be able to fence the space in to control
entry for special events; for example, a beer garden or barbeque festival. Mr. Gerber indicated
that different fence designs had been discussed.

Council Member Hyland had observed that what becomes familiar becomes boring and not as
highly utilized as things that change. She would prefer a flexible event space to capture that
element of novelty. The Town Center is not accessible from the interstate, so people must be
enticed to visit. The committee wanted a monument or other feature that reflects Cottonwood
Heights. For example, if the Old Mill is demolished, components of the mill could be put on
display. Council Member Hyland asked about the grade limitations. It was noted that the grade
will be advantageous near the townhomes because it will allow for tuck-under garages. The event
area will be flat, and there will be a slope to the residential area. It could be terraced or used for
activities like sledding. The design team's intent was to incorporate the grade, not fight against it.

Mr. Spung stated that one consideration is how the space interacts with and complements what
surrounds it. If there is a stage in the center of the open space, they will need to consider noise
and other impacts on residents. However, by designing the entire site at once, mitigations can be
built in to help dampen the effects of sound, light, traffic, etc.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Morch 3, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     11
Council Member Hyland remarked that there is a lot of competition for fanners' markets, and she
was not sure that Cottonwood Heights could win because nearby cities host markets in bigger
spaces. However, pop-up markets with vendor booths like you see at City block parties should be
accommodated. There is a desire for a stage, but she was concerned about how often it will be
utilized. Mr. Gerber reported that one reason a stage is being considered is the potential availability
of funding for Olympic viewing events. It could be a multi-use platform rather than a dedicated
stage.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that when the Town Center was initially conceptualized, the intent
was to create a place where people could socialize with a view of the mountains, but the Concept
Plan had the buildings, parking lot, and stage oriented toward the northwest rather than the
mountains. Initial discussions pointed to having no roadways in the Town Center. She believes
residents may feel that the open space is a cou~yard-for residents of the townhomes, and the
concept did not activate the street or welcome people from Fort Union Boulevard. It needs to have
a local feel , but the idea of it being a regional attraction has developed over the last few years.
She believes citizens should be surveyed as she-wants to ensure that the Town Center is what they
want rather than an event space that draws people from the freeway. Council Member Hyland
stated that the ideas were not mutually exclusive. However, she agreed that the concept may be
oriented in the wrong direction.

Council Member Binell stated that everything must be tied to the financial reality of how far the
$30 million could stretch. Most of the parking is supposed to be underground for aesthetic reasons,
but she does not know how that can be accomplished within the budget. She believes the project
should be put out to bid to better understand costs and detennine if underground parking at a cost
of $40,000 per stall is feasible. Representatives from Onyx and Thtive agreed that the economics
must work. The Concept Plan was based on the request for proposals ("RFP"), but it could be
changed based on the Council's feedback

Council Member Bin·ell stated that she believes the open space should be seen from Fort Union
Boulevard, feel open and welcoming, and be miented toward the mountains. She has never wanted
asphalt in the space. Council Member Hyland stated that it is hard to make everyone's dreams
come true, and two acres is not much space. They need to detem1ine how to get the best bang for
the City's buck. Council Member Bin-ell stated that she initially believed one-third of the space
would be for the public. Mr. Spung stated that what he heard was that Council Member Binell
would like to potentially integrate some linear park features that connect to the roadways and draw
people in, as well as create a view conidor. That could be accomplished by removing or
reallocating retail space.

Mayor Bennion reminded the Council that their focus was on what they would like to see in the
two acres of open space. Mr. Spung added that specific infonnation would drive both the design
and cost. Once the Council has an ideal scenario for what they would like to see in the space, the
design team can detennine how to make that work in the space.

Council Member Newell stated that he likes the slope because people can sit on it for concerts and
everyone will have a view of the stage. He appreciates that the space is contained so events can

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     12
be controlled but also has the flexibility to be opened up. He likes the idea of the stage because
people having dinner at the restaurants or walking along the sidewalks will hear what is happening
there and it will add to their experience.

Mayor Bennion was also in favor of the stage. Residents had suggested that local youth could use
it to make music when it is not booked for events. The area could be very hot in the summer, so
there needs to be a way to shade it. A resident also suggested that the slope could be used for a
community feature like an alpine slide. Another suggestion was to provide tables for people to
b1ing their own food and eat together at the Town Center. Council Member Bin-ell stated that that
would be more inclusive as everyone will not be able to afford to patronize the restaurants.

In response to a question from Council Member Bin-ell, Council Member Newell stated that he
envisioned pe1manent fencing that could be opened. An event like a beer garden would require
that the area be closed off. Council Member Bin-ell remarked that temporary fencing could
accomplish that goal. Mr. Spung stated that retractable fencing may be an option.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Visioning Committee did a great job, but they were not
given any parameters. She asked the design team to speak to how two acres of land can be
successfully utilized as community space. A design team representative indicated that it was
helpful to receive the Council's feedback so they know what to design. The meeting was very
helpful to understand what they want and how they envision the space. They can then work on a
design that hopefully meets the Council's goals.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Council Member Bin-ell stated that
Carmel, Indiana had a winter market with an ice-skating rink and seating kiosks. It was well-
landscaped and had grand buildings in the background. The area was approximately three acres.
She and Randy Whitehead visited the city three years previously. Mr. Whitehead stated that it was
designed in such a way that residents wanted to go there frequently. It was flexible enough to hold
major events and farmers markets and became a draw in and of itself. It was open and easy to get
to. He believes that residents were led to expect a view of the mountains that are featured in the
Cottonwood Heights logo, open trails, and areas for families to sit down and enjoy each other's
company. The key was to build a sense of community and create a place residents can take ptide
in. He did not believe that the area shown in the Concept Plan would create a sense of belonging,
provide a view of the mountains, or encourage residents to visit the Town Center.

Council Member Hyland asked about the specific things that brought people to the Cannel town
center on a daily basis but also allowed flexibility for events. The Town Center does not need a
splash pad or ice 1ink because the City already has those. Mr. Whitehead stated that the
infonnation that was passed out included a list of items residents indicated they wanted. Council
Member Hyland noted that the list was based on the co1mnittee' s prio1ities with some feedback
from some residents. Mr. Whitehead stated that the committee worked off of the residents'
requirements to create the list of ideas. Mayor Bennion remarked that residents have expressed
the desire for some items that were included in the list of previous design ideas like an alpine slide,
shade, and a dedicated space for teenagers.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     13
Mayor Bennion stated that the cun-ent concept looked very walled off. It is hard to design around
the prope1iy's limitations, but it looked like a fortress. She believes the Council needs to think
about how they can support the design team in opening up the space while being mindful of the
City's financial goals. Council Member Bin-ell stated that she did not intend to react negatively to
the idea of fences, but the idea was for the space to feel very open. She has consulted with people
who were involved in projects for other cities, and they indicated that it is imp01iant to ensure that
the Town Center is designed for the public if it has been bonded for.

Council Member Hyland stated that she believes part of the confusion came from pushing form-
based code, which puts the buildings on the street and parking behind them. Council Member
Bin-ell indicated that form-based code allows for activation and a Main Street feel like cities had
150 years ago. Council Member Hyland stated that the City Council needed to determine its
highest priorities given the realities and limitations of the open space. She would love for it to be
oriented toward the mountains but that may not be possible due to the grade.

Mr. Gerber stated that the Council needed to consider how to keep the project feasible so that it
can and will be developed. Mr. Spung added that ongoing maintenance and logistical supp01i
should also be considered. It is great to have an event venue, but someone must coordinate, staff,
and pay for the events. It is a great aspirational goal, but the City may not be ready to commit to
a permanent facility at the onset.

A question was raised about what amenities the Council was certain it did not want. It had been
indicated that there is a splash pad and ice rink elsewhere in the City, but the advisory committee
specifically asked for splash pads, playgrounds, and parks. The design team needed more specific
direction on the central amenity because it would be maintained by the City, not the developer,
and its final design would affect the rest of the Town Center. Increasing the open space would
change the economic outlook for the development, which may or may not benefit the City. Once
a solid direction is determined, the next step would be to contract an expert to design the space.

The proposed list of amenities was reviewed. It was detennined that a dog park should be crossed
off the list, and space for regular events like atis festivals should be retained.

Council Member Hyland read the following from the list provided by the Advisory Committee:

    •   A central gathering space large enough to old regular scheduled events such as a farmers
        market on Saturdays, a large Chrishnas market in the winter, and any other events.
    •   A gathering space can be designed in such a way to be expandable on demand. Roads can
        be closed off and other existing amenity areas can be incorporated to make a much larger
        space.
    •   Landscaped walking paths.
    •   An area for performances.
    •   The gathe1ing space should have the necessary infrastructure for events: electiicity, water,
        sound.
    •   It needs to be a place where people of all ages want to go.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     14
Council Member Hyland stated that Cannel, Indiana was a very inspirational place for the
committee and rec01mnended that the design team consider what is novel about their town center.
She did not want another park, and she wanted to take advantage of the mountains. In response to
a question, Council Member Hyland clarified that residents do not want a playground area or grass
park. Mayor Bennion asked if the Council was in favor of a band area where perhaps people can
sit on the hill and listen. Council Member Newell commented that events could be held in the
same area. Mr. Gerber expressed concern about trying to fit 25 items on two acres. Council
Member Hyland stated that the list also includes recommendations about the retail area and street
activation.



Photographs of the Cannel, Indiana town center were displayed and discussed. Council Member
Binell stated that it had beautiful landscaping and planters. She recommended that the stage be
round so people can sit around it.

Mr. Whitehead stated that Carmel sets up a pavilion for its Christmas market~and the space is ve1y
flexible. It is not elaborate, but it was consciously built to be what they needed. He does not
believe the space needs to cost a lot of money if it is thoughtfully planned. He indicated that
Cannel city staff would be happy to discuss what they did and how they manage it. He does not
believe the City needs to choose between commercial development and doing something
meaningful for residents. They can open up space between buildings so it flows better and people
can see the mountains. Elevation is a crucial component. Council Member Birrell stated that there
are companies that ~se drones to determine what the view will be based on different design
elements. Council Member Hyland stated that the elevation change is a legitimate constraint.

Mr. Whitehead reported that the committee spent months coming up with ideas that they felt make
sense. The original consultants indicated that their expectations could not be realized because
doing so would require a $30 million bond, and residents then voted that they were willing to pay
$30 million.

Mr. Spung noted that it can be difficult to visualize how the space will look and function. A good
next step would be to conduct a visual survey to help guide the conversation. It was requested that
the list be prioritized to provide specific guidance to the design team.

Mayor Bemuon referred to the original list of ideas and asked the Council' s opinions on the
suggestion for senior citizen dance mghts. Council Member Newell stated that he had no issues
with the idea. Council Member Binell stated that her hometown had bands and local talent play
weekly, and Cottonwood Heights could do something similar. It would be low cost and promote
local talent, and they could consider hosting more professional events at a later time.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026        Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     15
3.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

MOTION: Board Member Newell moved to ADJOURN the CDRA Meeting and move into a
Closed Session to discuss the Purchase of Real Property. The motion was seconded by Board
Member Hyland. The motion passed unanimously.

The CDRA was in Closed Session from 6:40 p.m. to 6:59 p.m.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
    The minutes of this meeting will be approved through the following process: The
    Agency's secretary promptly will circulate a draft copy of the minutes to the Board
    members, who then will have three business days to provide any proposed corrections to
    the secretary. The secretary will then circulate a revised draft ofthe minutes to the Board
    members, and the same review process will continue until such time as no corrections to
    the draft minutes are received within the three business days review period, whereupon
    that draft of the minutes will be deemed approved and will become the final minutes of
    the meeting.

5.0    ADJOURN

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The CDRA Meeting adjourned at 6:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     16
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:              Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                      Ellen Birrell, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn
                      Newell

Staff Present:        City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director,
                      Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Records, Administrative Services
                      Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community and
                      Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public
                      Works Director and City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority, Riley
                      Pilgrim

1.0      WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Maggie Mills provided updates on Whitmore Library events for March. Preschool story times are
Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday at 10:15 a.m. The puppet theater show will be on Friday, March
13. The Seed Library will open on Friday, March 20. An early-learning event will be held at the
Salt Lake County Library's Viridian Event Center on Saturday, March 21 , from 10:00 a.m. to
12:00 p.m. The Kim C. Gardner Policy Institute released a study on early childhood literacy in
January, and Governor Cox then held a symposium on the topic. Libraries play a large role in that.
The Whitmore Library's preschool story times model an activity parents can do at home. The
finger plays are often repeated at home, and repetition is a key component of early learning. If
they cannot attend in person, parents can join story times via Zoom on the library website. The
"1,000 Books before Kindergarten" program is also a great way to prepare children for school.

There were no fmiher comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Morch 3, 2026        Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                     17
4.0    ACTION ITEMS

       4.1      Consideration of Resolution 2026-16 Approving an Agreement with Perkins
                Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. (By this Resolution, the Council
                will Approve the City's Entry into an Independent Contractor Agreement
                whereunder Perkins Engineering. Inc. will provide engineering and related
                services in connection with the City's planned construction or reconstruction
                ofan East/West crossing on the North side of the 3000 East and Cottonwood
                Parkway signalized intersection, to coincide with the existing Big Cottonwood
                Canyon Trail under City's Project No. 006.26).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-16 Approving an
Agreement with Perkins Engineering, Inc. for Engineering Services. The motion was seconded
by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

        4.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-17 Approving an Agreement with the State
                of Utah Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo and Identity. (By
                this Resolution, the Council will recognize the "Cottonwood Heights Utah 250
                Community Committee" and Approve an Agreement with the Utah Department
                of Cultural and Community Engagement to coordinate the City's use of the
                "America250" name, logo and brand identity in connection with our nation's
                upcoming 250th anniversary).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Council Member Birrell thanked Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins and Staff for
bringing the agreement to the City Council. It is a great year to celebrate the country's semi-
quincentennial.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-17 Approving an
Agreement with the State of Utah Concerning Use of the America250 Name, Logo and Identity.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-
Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes;
Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        CONSENT CALENDAR

        5.1     Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of February 17, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of February 17, 2026. The motion was seconded by Council

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     18
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

Mayor Bennion reported that the March 17, 2026, City Council meeting was cancelled as it is
Caucus night and the Council wants citizens to be able to attend caucus meetings.

6.0    ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member BiITell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:09 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     19
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session, CDRA, and Business Meetings held on
Tuesday, March 3, 2026.


TevL Forbes
Te1i Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ __ __ __ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for March 3, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     20
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL RETREAT HELD
TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 2026, AT 2:00 P.M. IN THE CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM AT
CITY HALL LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEYARD, COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS, UT 84121.

Present:                 Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council Member
                         Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn E. Newell, Council Member
                         Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Assistant Police
                         Chief, Chris McHugh; Community and Economic Development Director,
                         Jim Spung; Finance Director, Scott Jurges; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                         Public Works Director, Matt Shipp

Public:                  Consultant Kerri Nakamura, Audrey Pines, Eva Chan

1.      Welcome

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the meeting to order at approximately 2:00 p.m.

City Manager, Jared Gerber, expressed his appreciation for the Citizen Budget Committee's efforts
but noted that the budgeting process was behind. It was important to find answers at the meeting
so Staff could move forward with the preliminary budget that must be adopted in May 2026. He
asked the City Council to focus on high-level questions regarding revenues and budget cuts.

2.        Fiscal Year 2027 Preliminary Budget Guidance for Staff.

         a.      Historical Budgeting Model Overview.
         b-:-    Fund Balance Overview and Determination.
       --c.      FY 2027 Needs ana Requests.
         d.      Parks and Recreation Services.
         e.      Employee Compensation.
         f.      Revenue and Cuts Considerations.
          g.     Possible Property Tax Increase.
          h.     Future Fiscal Planning.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reported that some of the reports they would be reviewing will be
developed with the Citizen Budget Committee. He then reviewed the Fiscal Year ("FY") 2019-
2025 budget data, including original, adjusted, and actual numbers. Budgets are adjusted for a
variety of reasons, primarily for one-time reimbursable police overtime expenses and grants.
When creating the budget for a new year, they typically first look at the original adopted budget
and make adjustments based on that number to ensure that these one-time expenses are not carried
over.




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
Depaiiment-level expenses were separated by salary and benefits and operational expenses, with
a grand total and full-time equivalent ("FTE") employee count for each department. Mr. Jurges
noted that FTEs were hand-counted as the City's accounting software does not have that capability.

Mr. Jurges reviewed changes to the total General Fund expenses throughout the study period.
FTEs had only increased by 7.9, primarily because some employees were moved to other funds .
Additions include two Public Works Department employees hired to perform engineering services
that were previously contracted out. Three police officers had been hired for traction control,
which has an associated revenue offset. In that same period, salary and benefits expenses increased
by 57%. Budget Committee Member Evan Chan calculated the actual percentage to be 50%,
which is higher than the Consumer Price Index ("CPI") for the time period of 30%. However,
Cottonwood Heights salaries are still below market, which puts the City at a disadvantage and
increases the potential oflosing employees.

Operational expenses had only increased by 25.3% due to department heads' efforts to be as
efficient as possible. Transfers from the General Fund to the Roads Capital Improvement Fund
had increased slightly from $1.4 million to $2 million. With the exception of an additional
$200,000 transfer to the Storm Water Fund, all other transfer increases were related to debts
incurred. Total expenses had increased by approximately $10 million since FY 2018-2019,
approximately $3 million in debt service and transfers, and $7 million in true increases in budgeted
expenditures.

Mr. Jurges reminded the Council that costs had increased exponentially. An item that cost $100
three years ago now costs $115 or $120, so the $2 million in roads funds does not go as far as it
once did, but roads still need to be maintained. Other fund data was included in the report, but
they were all dependent on the General Fund.

Council Member Ryland asked about transfers from the General Fund. Mr. Jurges reported that
the Debt Service Fund -is fully sourced by the General Fund. Approximately $2 million is
transferred into the Capital Projects Fund, as well as occasional grants that are first deposited into
the General Fund. The Stonn Water Fund receives $200,000 in transfers, but that transfer could
be replaced with an increased Stonn Water Fee. Council Member Hyland stated that the General
Obligation ("GO") Bond debt service is supp01ied by property taxes. Mr. Jurges clarified that the
monies are first deposited in the General Fund and then transferred to the Debt Service Fund.

In response to a follow-up question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges repo1ied that the
City will receive approximately $240,000 per year in lease payments from Walgreens. The project
was currently part of the Community Development and Renewal Agency ("CDRA") Fund, but the
City Council could make the decision to transfer that revenue into the General Fund to offset
expenditures or retain it in the CDRA Fund to offset future costs of the Town Center project.
Council Member Hyland remarked that residents were told the bond would be supported by tax
revenue, and retaining the revenue in the CDRA Fund would go against that promise.

In response to a question from Council Member Newell, Mr. Jurges confirmed that the moneys
could be split between the two funds. Council Member Holton stated that the Council needed to
consider how each decision will affect a potential tax increase.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
Council Member Hyland stated that fees are often demonized, but she now understands the need.
There are prope1iies in the City that do not pay property taxes but do place a burden on the
stormwater system, for example. The Storm Water Fee fairly ensures that those properties pay for
City services. If the fee needs to be increased to match expenses so no General Fund transfer is
needed, that is a legitimate discussion. Transfers to the Stonn Water Fund and the Walgreens lease
payments represent $440,000 in found revenue. Council Member Bin-ell agreed with Council
Member Hyland. She believed it was important to speak in distinctions. The City has taken on a
great deal of debt and needs to live up to the promises that were made on the GO Bond.

Council Member Hyland stated that she and Mayor Bennion participated in the Citizen Budget
Committee, and she had emailed the Council about key takeaways from the meetings. The
Committee had a clear message to tighten the City's belt,]Jalance the budget, and implement long-
term policies to prevent it from happening again. Cottonwood Heights had increased property
taxes once in the 21 years since incorporation, but the City was now in a position that a resident
described as a gut punch. That resident asked why taxes were not increased more gently so citizens
could incorporate it into their own budgets, which was a reasonable question. The takeaways from
the committee included tightening the budget wherever possible, not offering premium services,
and enacting a modest tax increase to carry the City over until the Town Center and Gravel Pit
begin generating revenue.

Council Member Bin-ell appreciated the historical tax rate comparison provided by Mr. Jurges.
Since 2007, comparable cities have increased taxes considerably. West Valley City has
implemented increas~s_totaling 71 %, Mun-ay 68%, Midvale over 100%, Holladay 69%, Draper
82%, and Bluffdale 66%~ Cottonwood Heights had an approximately 15% increase. Costs have
increased dramatically post-COVID. In hindsight, she would have enacted a smaller yearly
increase, but the City Council did not choose to do so. The data indicated that it would not be
unique for Cottonwood Heights to enact a tax increase.

Council Member Newell stated that he and Council Member Bin-ell brought up a tax increase when
they were first elected, but it was not well-received by the rest of the City Council. However, he
did not want to compare Cottonwood Heights to other cities but rather to develop a plan that would
work for the City. Cottonwood Heights is a unique municipality with a shifting population, and
the economy outside of the city is impacting residents. He agreed with Council Member Hyland
that it is important to look at fees that will close the gap for people who are utilizing City services
but not paying property taxes. He asked for an update on cuts that had already been enacted.

Mr. Gerber reported that changes had been made to the Culture Division, Butlerville Days, and the
parade. Between those and other changes, approximately $55,000 in savings had been realized.
Other potential changes included:

    •   If the Stonn Water Fund transfer was replaced with a fee increase, that would be an
        additional savings, but Staff would need direction to do so. Similar to the Capital Projects
        Fund, the Storm Water Fund is woefully underfunded.
    •   Cutting cable television services would result in a savings of $6,500.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
    •   The Council had discussed cuts to the newsletter but decided not to enact those at this time.
        However, Staff was still considering ways to decrease that expense.
    •   Cancelling all sustainability and small business events would save approximately $23,000.
    •   Reducing the City's lobbying from two firms to one would save approximately $38,000.
    •   If the City Council only attends Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT") events and
        all other training and travel is cut, that will save approximately $40,000. Council Member
        Hyland remarked that the Council had not utilized the full training and travel budget. Mr.
        Gerber confinned that savings are taken into account dming the budgeting process.
        However, the amount of savings the City realizes on various line items decreases year over
        year as they try to provide the same level of service without accounting for inflation.
    •   Cuts to professional services would result in a savings of $45,000. The line item is typically
        under budget, but cuts may impact the City's ability to react to unforeseen events.
    •   If training was cut to the minimum required for certifications, it would save $12,000.
    •   Parks maintenance could be cut by $60,000. However, doing so would remove the match
        for the Tourism, Recreation, Culh1re, and Convention ("TRCC") grant.

Council Member Newell asked about the operational impacts of the potential cuts.

Mayor Bennion stated that items like the newsletter need more discussion. People have indicated
on social media that they appreciate the printed newsletter. Cottonwood Heights is an older city,
and less of its population is online. The newsletter is a consistent way to reach them. She was not
in favor of halting transfers to the St01m Water Fund because if the infrastructure issues are not
addressed, more damage will be caused and it will cost more to repair. Council Member Hyland
stated that the Storm Water Fee should be increased to make it a self-sustaining fund rather than
transferring monies from the General Fund. Council Member Newell agreed.

Council Member Holton stated that cuts should not be enacted that will cause a greater financial
impact in the future. Regarding the newsletter, he sees value in it, but the City was also in a unique
position. Cuts can be tem__porary, and he was not afraid to make changes because adjustments can
be made~if necessary. If the City Council was going to ask people to pay more taxes, they needed
to show that they were willing to make big changes.

Mr. Gerber reminded the Council that the changes they had discussed thus far did not affect
staffing. To make up for the $2.7 million deficit, each department would have to cut 15%. Staff
needed direction on any revenue increases and specific areas to cut so they could determine how
to best serve the City within-those parameters.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Gerber clarified that the $2.7 million
figure was the amount that was budgeted to be transferred from reserves to cover expenses for the
current fiscal year, and the amount had increased yearly for the past five years. Council Member
Holton stated that he had heard about past salary freezes. Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated that
Cottonwood Heights has always found money to pay its employees, even in 2008 when other cities
instituted furloughs and freezes. Mr. Jurges stated that the City skipped a Cost-of Living
("COLA") increase one year but made up for it in the following year. Mayor Bennion remarked
that turnover was 25% in 2025, which is very costly.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
Council Member Hyland suggested that the Council should agree on a minimum Fund balance.
Holladay's policy is to have a minimum of 15% with the goal of increasing it to 35% in surplus
years. That would equate to a minimum of $4.4 million for Cottonwood Heights. The City cannot
continue to dip into reserves to cover operational expenses. It may have been a mistake to use
one-time monies in that way. Mr. Jurges indicated that the projected ending fund balance for FY
2026 is approximately $4 million, or 12% to 15% range. Mr. Gerber added that if no changes were
made, an additional $3 million would be required for FY 2027. Council Member Hyland remarked
that because the City used one-time monies to cover operational expenses dming the pandemic,
residents believe it can deliver services at a lower rate than it can. The City Council needed to
commit to better processes for future fiscal planning.

Mayor Bennion stated that setting better policies was a recommendation of the Citizen Budget
Committee, as was making the committee pennanent. Council Member Holton stated that City
Council Members all have different backgrounds and expertise, and it is beneficial to have the
opinions of residents who are experts in budgetary issues. He was in favor of retaining the
committee moving fmward. Council Member Newell agreed that the committee is helpful in an
advisory capacity.

Council Member Hyland stated that it would be helpful for co1mnittee members to have experience
in municipal budgeting because it is very different from private budgeting. Council Member
Birrell disagreed, as she did not believe that level of specificity should be required. She believes
each Council Member should appoint two members to the committee. Council Member Hyland
and Council Member Newell were not in favor of individual members making appointments, as it
should be a Council decision, although each district should be represented.

Mayor Bennion indicated that the details could be worked out at a later time, but the Council was
in agreement that the Citizen Budget Committee should continue, and each member must be well-
qualified. She noted that some of the most helpful committee members did not have municipal
budgeting expe1ience, but their skills and perspectives were very helpful. She recommended that
Mr. Jurges review applications and be paii of the selection process. Whether Council Members
should continue to serve on the committee was discussed.

Council Member Birrell remarked that the Citizen Budget Committee also recommended that the
City have five-year projections. Mr. Gerber stated that it should be a five-year strategic plan that
outlines what the Council wants to accomplish and how it will accomplish them. If goals change,
the plan can be amended, as it is a living document. Council Member Holton stated that the
financial philosophy mentioned by Council Member Hyland would also be part of the five-year
plan. Council Member Newell recommended a three-year plan, as too much can change in five
years. Mr. Gerber claiified that broader goals can be included for years four and five.

Council Member Hyland stated that the co1ru11ittee recommended the City clarify its financial
philosophy. Consultant Kerri Nakamura mentioned that including narratives in the budget will
increase transparency for residents, and Cottonwood Heights could do a better job of explaining
budget policies so citizens with no budget background can read and understand them. Council


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
Member Newell agreed that the messaging is c1itical, and the nanatives need to be written in a
way people can understand.

Council Member Hyland noted that Citizen Budget Committee Member, Eva Chan, recommended
the City have data points to help in yearly decision-making, including benchmarks like debt-to-
asset ratios. That would be helpful in recognizing trends. Holladay clarified its policies in 2025.
For example, they first dete1mine whether the City would fund a project on its own and use it as a
barometer to determine whether they will engage in a specific type of spending before they
consider grants or other funding. They also have a policy about how conservative they will be
with budgeting. She prefers that type of specificity that does not tie the Council's hands but
provides guidance on how certain things will be done. Mr. Gerber rep01ted that he and
Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, were working to draft policies.

Council Member Binell stated that the City needs to -be careful with grants because even the
matching portion can be a burden on a city of Cottonwood Heights' size. It is one thing to acquire
a new building, but it must then be insured, maintained, and operated. She was in favor of
guardrails that will help future City Councils understand what they are getting into and keep the
focus on health, safety, and taking care of the City's current infrastructure.

Council Member Hyland read the Holladay maintenance policy and noted that there were multiple
examples of similar common-sense policies. She does not want to increase taxes, but the City' s
crumbling infrastructure must be addressed. Cottonwood Heights is an old city, and it must pay
to maintain its infrastructure.

Council Member Binell stated that Impact Fee revenues had decreased dramatically since 2007.
Mr. Gerber explained that Impact Fees can only be charged on new growth and only be used for
new infrastructure. There had not been a lot of new growth in the City. There is also a time limit
on spending those funds; any funds not used within seven years must be returned. Council Member
Binell stated that there was an ongoing problem in Pepper' s Hill on the north side of Creek Road
that, to fier understanding, was related to development in the area. She does not agree with the
idea that c_ottonwood Heights is built out, as there are a lot of projects in process, and the City
needs to ensure that those developments bear the associated infrastructure costs. Mr. Jurges
explained that there must be a valid need to charge an Impact Fee. They cannot pay for
maintenance or upgrades to existing infrastructure unless capacity is increased.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung stated that one challenge is that in
order to charge Impact Fees, the City would need a Capital Improvements Plan, and that fund
would need to be maintained. If the City does not collect enough fees, those administrative costs
will not be offset. He believes the Gravel Pit is the only area of the City where Impact Fees may
make sense. The developer pays 100% of initial infrastructure costs, but Impact Fees would cover
off-site improvements.

Council Member Binell asked if traffic impacts from the large apartment complex in northwestern
Cottonwood Heights would make the project Impact Fee eligible to upgrade intersections in the
area. Mr. Spung stated that a traffic study would be required as part of the entitlement process,
and the developer would bear the cost of any recommended upgrades or improvements. Council

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      6
Member Bin-ell stated that people who live near the Old Mill are very concerned about impacts
from that development. Mr. Jurges reported that no infrastructure changes were required in the
area, so there was no valid need for Impact Fees from that development.

Council Member Newell stated that a decision should be made on the Storm Water Fee. The fee
automatically increases by 3% each year, and larger properties pay more through the Equivalent
Residential Unit ("ERU") price structure. Council Member Hyland stated that it could be
increased by more than 3% to cover eliminating the $200,000 transfer from the General Fund. In
response to a question, Mr. Jurges indicated that the necessary percentage would need to be
calculated. Council Member Holton stated that the solution would simply maintain and asked if
that would be enough to address the City' s stormwater issue. Council Member Binell was in favor
of increasing the fee as long as it is increased proportionally.

Mr. Gerber reported that the current revenue of $1.6 million is not enough to maintain the
infrastructure and perfonn necessary upgrades. The initial fee was set lower than the City could
justifiably charge. Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, stated that the Storm Water Master Plan
study was recently completed, and tens of millions of dollars in repairs and modifications were
required over the next five to 10 years. Every stormwater project that had been completed to date
was due to an emergency, and they had been unable to begin taking a proactive approach.

Council Member Holton stated that increasing the fee with the goal of eliminating the transfer
from the General Fund was a separate discussion from increasing the fee to the level at which the
City can be proactive. They would also be increasing the Storm Water Fee and property taxes at
the same time. Mayor Bennion stated that the present is the time to address the matter because
costs will only increase over time. Mr. Gerber indicated that it should be rolled into the five-year
strategic plan.

Council Member Hyland recommended that the fee be increased to the equivalent of the $200,000
transfer in the upcoming fiscal year. Mr. Jurges reported that the cunent fee of $8.44 per ERU
was projected to increase to $8.69. An increase of approximately 15% would be required to offset
the transier, which would increase the total fee by $1.27 per month or $15.19 per year per ERU.

Council Member Holton asked about the origin of the $200,000 amount. Mr. Jurges stated that at
the time the fee was instituted, the City set an initial target of approximately $1.6 million. The 3%
yearly increase had only generated $224,000 in additional revenue since its inception. Mr. Shipp
stated that the Stonn Water Fee Study recommended a fee of over $16, but the Council decided to
set it at $7.50 per ERU. The yearly 3% increases were a recent addition.

After further discussion, the Council agreed that the transfer from the General Fund should be
discontinued and the Stonn Water Fee increased.

Council Member Hyland asked about the Walgreens lease funds. Mr. Gerber recommended that
if the City Council decided to move the revenue to the General Fund, some monies should be
retained in the CDRA to cover property maintenance costs. Mr. Jurges stated that approximately
$150,000 is available in the CDRA Fund, but it should maintain a balance to offset new costs. In


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      7
response to a question raised by Council Member Binell, Mr. Jurges confirmed that maintenance
or other expendihires in the development area could also be ftmded through a budget adjustment.

Council Member Holton stated that residents are paying significantly more for everything, and the
City Council should do anything it can to make the deficit smaller. He was in favor of transferring
all lease revenue into the General Fund. Council Member Binell stated that if a budget adjustment
could be legally made to cover costs related to the Walgreens property, she was also in favor.

Council Member Newell asked if a new line item could be created for transfers related to
maintenance issues to ensure transparency. Mr. Jurges reported that the cunent CDRA Fund
budget includes a transfer line item. Lease revenue can be transfened into the General Fund, and
any necessary monies can be transfened back into the CDRA Fund.

Council Member Hyland proposed that all other lease revenues be retained in the CDRA Fund to
cover maintenance and management costs, but Walgreens' lease payments be transfened to the
General Fund, including the $60,000 in payments received in the cunent fiscal year.

Mayor Bennion was not in favor of some smaller reductions like cancelling sustainability events
and Staff training, which have a big impact on the City and would not result in much savings. She
asked for the Council's input on other reductions.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Staff h·aining budget should be retained, as they need
artificial intelligence training. The Citizens Budget Committee recommended keeping the three-
day Butlerville Days event and cutting either fireworks or the drone show this year, and then only
having a one-day event next year. The same approach could be taken with the printed newsletter;
it could move to a quarterly printed and a monthly digital fonnat. Those steps would allow
residents to see the effects of cutting the budget and provide feedback on how they would like to
move forward.

Council Member Hyland was concerned about making changes to the Capital Improvements Fund.
Brighton Way was included in the resurfacing plan, but work had stopped because they are unsure
if they have the funds to do it. That road was included in the published maintenance plan, but the
City may not be able to deliver on that promise because of the increased infrastructure costs.
Mr. Gerber stated that the City previously transfe1Ted $3 million to Public Works, but it was
reduced in 2024. That is another area that was cut drastically to cover operational costs. He is
very concerned about maintenance of facilities, roads, and the stonnwater system. Council
Member Hyland questioned whether the City was serving its residents if it did not budget for fuhire
maintenance needs.

Ms. Higgins stated that the Butlerville Days Committee would be meeting the following day and
asked the Council's opinion on having both fireworks and the drone show. Each event costs
approximately $16,000. Council Member Newell pointed out that the state is in a severe drought,
so his preference would be to only have a drone show. Council Member Binell agreed. Council
Member Hyland stated that the committee had indicated a preference for fireworks based on citizen
feedback. Council Member Holton asked if it would be worth asking the committee to present a
proposed budget to the City Council. Mr. Gerber stated that it would likely not be possible this

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      8
year, but he hoped to tum that responsibility over to the committee soon. Council Member Newell
noted that messaging will be critical so residents know the fireworks will only be cancelled this
year and why the decision was made.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber stated that if only one
lobbying firm is retained, his preference would be to retain the firm that tracks bills. The second
lobbyist helps the City obtain funding and could be brought back in the future. The City Council
directed Mr. Gerber to review the contracts. If possible, only one firm will be retained for FY
2027.

Mayor Bennion recommended that the Council training and travel budget be reduced to match
previous years. She was not in favor of reducing professional services and training. Council
Member Holton asked for more infom1ation on professional services. Mr. Gerber reported that
the line item is related to consultants the City sometimes hires for items like General Plan updates
and fee studies. Council Member Holton indicated a preference for cutting that budget; if the need
arose, a budget adjustment could be made to cover any consulting costs. Council Member Hyland
expressed concern about the Town Center and Gravel Pit developments, as Staff does not have
experience with projects of that size, and the City cannot afford to hire an assistant city manager.
She was in favor of retaining the consulting budget. Mr. Gerber noted that the Council had
discussed conducting a fee study, which will generate additional revenue. It would also be
beneficial to have a consultant help with the five-year strategic plan. When considering cuts, it is
important to ensure that it does not hamper the City's ability to m eet its long-tenn needs.

Council Member Hyland stated that she had received calls about annexing the area around Willow
Creek Country Club, which was an opportunity to increase revenue but would require Staff time
and possibly professional services. Short-tenn rentals and Transit Revenue Tax ("TRT") cannot
cmTently be budgeted becm1se the amounts are unknown. She is committed to increasing
compliance to capture that revenue from Airbnb owners who are charging TRT and not remitting
it or taking a residential exemption they are not entitled to. That will require an investment by the
City, but the return will be much greater. She urged caution about tightening the budget to the
point where they do more harm than good.

Council Member Birrell stated that at a ULCT Legislative Policy Committee ("LPC") meeting, it
was mentioned that cities will not be required to submit a Moderate-Income Housing Rep01t next
year. Mr. Spung reported that the requirements change with every legislative session. The City is
exempt from reporting in calendar year 2026, but the report will need to be updated within the next
few years.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Council Member Hyland stated that
annexing the Willow Creek area would result in between $125,000 and $150,000 in additional
prope1ty tax revenue. If the a1mexation was completed and all deadlines were met in calendar year
2026, the City would receive that revenue in budget year 2028. Revenues from the 2025
aimexations will not be received until November 2026, which is in FY 2027.

Mr. Gerber reported that the City Council had discussed creating a Parks and Recreation
Department to maintain City parks. The current contract with the Cottonwood Heights Parks and

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
 Recreation Service Area ("CHPRSA") costs $220,000 per year. However, they recently completed
 a study to determine trne costs, and will increase the fee by approximately $120,000 this year. The
 contract does not include Smm11erhill Park, which will cost an additional $30,000 to $40,000.

  To create a Parks and Recreation Department, the City would need to hire three additional FTEs.
• The ongoing cost would be $350,000 to $400,000, with startup costs of approximately $200,000.
  Mr. Gerber believes that it would be more cost-effective in the long tenn and give the City better
  control over its parks. Department staff could take on other tasks, such as building maintenance
  and snowplowing in winter. Mr. Jurges indicated that although the one-time startup costs are a
  concern, the CHRSA continuing to maintain City parks will cost more.

 Council Member Hyland remarked that CHPRSA was passing on a 55% increase to Cottonwood
 Heights, and they had a 28% property tax increase three to four years ago.

  In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, it was clarified that the CHPRSA
 would continue to own and manage the Recreation Center and their parks, and residents who live
 in the service district would continue to pay that tax. Mayor Bennion stated that it would not be a
 change because people who live in the service district already pay those costs; this would simply
 move maintenance of City parks to a City department. Council Member Holton remarked that the
 long-term financial impact of the decision was a more granular discussion.

 Council Member Birrell asked about contracting for individual services. Mr. Shipp stated that the
 costs of having an in-house Parks Department are typically much lower than contracting for those
 services. He considered that option when he first began working with the City, but at that time the
 CHPRSA contract was significantlylower. Council Member Birrell asked if the new Public Works
 complex could supp01t the department or if additional facilities would be required. Mr. Shipp
 confirmed that the complex is large enough for the staff and all equipment. Moving parks
 maintenance in-house would also increase the level of service. It would not affect the Recreation
 Center__91" ~ents programming. Council Member Birrell asked if Staff was making the assumption
 that those services would continue at no additional cost. Mr. Shipp clarified that CHPRSA collects
 all funds fQr programming.

 In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber stated that the fee increase
 was based on the study of actual costs and a result of CHPRSA not increasing its fee for several
 years. Mr. Shipp added that he be1ieves the fee increase will allow them to break even, not make
 a profit. Council Member Hyland hesitated to incur the one-time costs in the upcoming budget
 year.

 Council Member Newell asked about the contract's expiration date. Mr. Shipp reported that it is
 an annual contract, and the CHPRSA runs on a calendar year. Mr. Gerber added that they were
 going to increase the fee in January, but were holding off until July to align with the City's fiscal
 year.

 Mayor Bennion asked if pait-time employees were an option. Mr. Shipp stated that full-time
 employees need to be on-site with pmt-time staff. He had evaluated the required staffing levels
 and believed one existing FTE could be pulled into the Parks Department during the summer to

 City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       10
supervise the three new FTEs, and those employees could properly maintain all parks. The
ongoing costs would be in line with the CHPRSA, but the up-front cost for more equipment and
larger mowers was a consideration.

Council Member Hyland asked what the three FTEs would do in the off season. Mr. Shipp stated
that they can man snowplows and assist with the stormwater system and other maintenance. It
would increase safety with snowplowing because the shifts can be split if necessary. In his opinion,
the option would provide better response in the summer and a higher level of servi~e all year.

Mayor Bennion stated that it would be better for the City to make the change now. However, it
may not be the year to make that financial commitment.

Mr. Jurges reported that a number of scenarios were run to determine how different compensation
levels would affect the budget. The salary study recommended changes to bring the City in line
with the average market and outlined a new step plan for the Police Depatiment, and Staff
detennined that the study can be implemented at a cost of $80,000 to $180,000, depending on the
net adjustment for civilian staff. For example, if the grade recommendation is 5%, civilian
employees may only receive a 2% increase in actual pay. The Police Department did not have
such flexibility because the step plan must be implemented in a specific way.

A 2% COLA increase would cost approximately $240,000. The study recommended that merit
increases be significantly higher. Approximately one-third of sworn employees are not eligible
for merit increases, but only two civilian employees are ineligible. Because more civilian
employees are eligible for merit increases, the net impact is higher. The recommended merit
increase was 2.75% for civilian and 3.63% for sworn employees, for a total of $300,000. The total
reco1mnended increase was approximately $600,000. Overall, current compensation was
approximately $13 million.

Mr. Jurges indicated that the above figures did not include benefits changes as that infonnation is
typicafly received in mid-April. However, a 1% reduction was expected in Utah Retirement
Services rates for civilian employees, which would result in a savings of approximately $40,000.
Ms. Higgins stated that the benefits increase will be at least 7.2%.

Council Member Hyland stated that salaries are based on comparables, and anyone who had been
hired within the last year should be at market. The market study should be inclusive of merit and
COLA, and she believed doing all three could be a disproportional increase. The City cannot
sustain a 6% increase in employee compensation every year without an equivalent 18% property
tax increase.

Ms. Higgins clarified that the market study applies through the end of the current fiscal year. All
other cities will have merit and COLA increases beginning in July. If Cottonwood Heights does
not do them as well, the City will fall further behind again. Mr. Gerber added that 50% of positions
in the City are below mid-market. Council Member Hyland stated that inflation had decreased
since the pandemic, so increases may not need to be as high as in recent years. The City needs to
tighten its belt, and she did not know where those numbers could come from if not compensation.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      11
Council Member Birrell stated that it would be reasonable to consider a lower increase. Mayor
Bennion recommended an increase of 3.5%. Ms. Higgins indicated that the City cannot sustain
service levels and organizational capacity without competitive compensation. Cottonwood
Heights operates with a lean, high-performing workforce where employees perfonn multiple
functions that would normally be split across several positions at larger cities, and those employees
can go to other cities and only perform one function. Council Member Newell remarked that
losing employees would create a danger to the City.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City has moved to a four 10-hour day schedule, which is
a non-compensation benefit, to attract talent. That was heavily debated, but she believes it will
help attract and retain employees. The executive summaiy provided by Eva Chan indicated that
expenses have increased by $8.28 million over the past six years, and 50% of that increase was in
public safety salaries. Citizens expect the City to provide a certain level of service, but it may not
need to be a premium level of service.

Mayor Bennion asked Chief Russo to speak to the impacts of freezing Police positions. Chief
Russo reported that the City was currently down three officers, but two additional officers were
expected to resign. Two positions would not be filled. Nonna! calls for service require at least
two cars or four officers. If someone is on a traffic call, there are not enough officers to respond
to an incoming call. The only way to fill that void is either with overtime, which is not sustainable,
or to pull School Resource Officers out of schools. Vacancies due to military deployments,
vacations, and sick days also require overtime. The City offers a signing bonus of $4,000. Recent
open recruiting resulted in four candidates, none of whom passed the background check. That is
the caliber of candidates Cottonwood Heights was attracting due to the low pay and benefits.
Losing officers and bsing unable to fill their positions is expensive and dangerous. The true cost
of paying officers time and a half to cover stress was discussed, as well as other impacts of being
short-staffed.

Council Member Newell stated that the current City Council had inherited the problem, and they
needed !o be courageous in making decisions that may not be popular. He was not in favor of
diluting City services. Increasing taxes may not be popular, but it is necessary to remain solvent
and provide those services. People need to see what they are getting for their money. If they look
at it critically, they will understand why the Council made that tough decision.

Mayor Bennion stated that if the Planning Department had the saine turnover this year as last year,
it would decimate the City. She was in favor of approving the market increase so the City can
retain employees.

Council Member Holton stated that his position had not changed, and he preferred to see further
belt-tightening. Council Member Birrell asked about specific areas he would like to see tightened.
Mr. Gerber reported that operations had been cut back for several years, and no further cuts could
be made without drastically cutting the level of service. Council Member Holton stated that he
believes the level of service is a different discussion. When he worked at Rio Tinto, if they had a
bad year, employees did not receive raises. Cottonwood Heights only had to raise taxes once in
20 years and compensation had increased yearly. There were new taxes from Hillside Plaza, the
Telecom Tax, and the Stonn Water Fee, and he was not comfortable supporting a property tax

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
increase. He believed that everything should be considered for cuts or paused, and the Council
could then reevaluate next year.

Council Member Hyland remarked that residents do not realize what they have until they do not
have it. Council Member Holton stated that if residents complain and say they would be
comfortable paying more for a higher level of service, he would hear their feedback and be willing
to make that change. He prefeITed caution.

Mayor Bennion stated that her idea of caution is to retain employees who serve the City so well.
There are important things happening in Cottonwood Heights. This year, decisions will be made
on the Old Mill and Town Center, and proper staffing is crucial. Council Member Holton stated
that he did not think it was a question of whether or not to support Staff. He believed it was just a
different approach. He wants the current employees to stay and be happy and supp01ied in their
jobs, but he also wants to advocate for residents who are paying the bill. Things are expensive on
every level, and this cyclical problem is difficult for governments.

Council Member Hyland heard Council Member Holton's concerns, but pointed out that the City
cannot take the darts from things it does not control. Garbage service costs $28 per month and the
base water rate is $40, for a total of $66. Residents currently pay an average of $67 per month for
all City services, which was an incredible value. The City was now at the point where they could
not continue to deficit spend to provide that level of service. Council Member Newell noted that
$67 per month is the equivalent of two trips to McDonald's for a family of four. If the dollar value
is presented, it is easier to understand that residents are paying a very small amount for City
services.

Council Member Hyland stated that although they are legally required to discuss percentages, she
would like dollar amounts to be highlighted. Information should be provided on the median home
price and dollar amount of the property tax increase. The Cottonwood Improvement District had
a 75% :increase in 2025, which increased her prope1iy tax bill by $90, but Canyons School
District's6% increase was $145.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber rep01ied that the cuts that
had already been discussed totaled approximately $ 1 million, and the City needs $2 million to
balance the FY 2027 budget. Additionally, there are $614,000 in required security and technology
upgrades that cannot be put off any further. Other requests that had been put off for years total
approximately $2.5 million. Cottonwood Heights did not have a maintenance budget, and he could
not continue to maintain the City and provide the cunent level of service under the current budget.
This year had a $2. 7 million deficit just to maintain services.

Council Member Hyland stated that the median monthly City property tax cost is $67. A 25%
increase would be an additional $16.75 per month, and 50% would be $33.50. There is a circuit
breaker program that provides property tax relief to those who meet qualifications. If a 25%
increase was enacted in FY 2027, she believes another 25% increase will be necessary in FY 2028.

Mr. Gerber asked about the Council's goal for the year, if they wanted to solve the problem for
one year, part of the year, or several years. The State Legislature considered several bills related

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
to property taxes in 2026, including setting a maximum of 5% for tax increases. If the City does
not catch up now, it may be required to make cuts in the future.

Council Member Birrell stated that the mechanisms Governor Cox and the Legislature are using
to provide more housing are connected to tax-increment financing ("TIF"), and entities that agreed
to forego TIF projects have been substantially increasing their rates. A resident may pay $5,000
in prope1iy taxes, but only 13% of that goes to Cottonwood Heights. The Council needed to
consider residents on fixed incomes, as they often only heard from more affluent residents who do
not want any tax increases.

Council Member Hyland stated that if the City were funded for two years, they would then have
greater ce1iainty regarding when the Town Center will come online and begin generating lease
revenue. Her preference was to propose a 50% increase, which could be pulled back if necessary,
based on feedback in public heatings.                -

Council Member Newell remarked on the possibility of the Legislature limiting property tax
increases. He lives on a fixed income and does riot want to pay a large tax increase, but he also
wants a police officer available if he calls and for his street to be safe and well-maintained.

Mayor Bennion stated that it is important that the City has healthy fund balances because it must
address needs that have been neglected. Fire Station 110 had been discussed for decades as it
should be a City station. Salt Lake County has not maintained it, and negotiations were needed
regarding its maintenance prior to turning it over to Cottonwood Heights. When that happens, the
City will need to invest $100,000 to $200,000. Council Member BiITell agreed and noted that the
City also needs to consider the erratic weather patterns and unforeseen challenges associated with
climate change.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Ms. Nakamura reviewed the steps
required for Truth in Taxation. When the Tentative Budget is adopted with a property tax increase,
an Impact Schedule is required as a separate item on the Agenda. The Impact Schedule must
clearly show how the additional revenues will be spent, and it is revisited throughout the process.
The Tax Cmmnission and Salt Lake County Auditor must be notified of the tax increase by June
1. In June, the City Council will adopt an Interim Budget at the higher budget amount, but the
additional tax revenues must be held in reserve until a tax hearing is held and the Final Budget is
adopted in August. There is an emphasis on transparency during the hearings, including discussion
of specific percentages and the impact on average-value homes and businesses.

Mr. Jurges stated that the Truth in Taxation hearing must be held on a night when no other Council
business is conducted, but it would be advisable to hold the hearing on the night of a normal City
Council meeting. If a second City Council meeting was needed it August, it should be scheduled
for an off week. The hearing would extend the budget process through August.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Mr. Jurges reported that he would
need to model the reductions discussed dming the meeting prior to detennining a break-even
amount. If all items were cut and no adjustments were made to employee compensation,
approximately $1. 7 million would be needed, which would equate to an increase of 20.8%.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
Employee compensation would bring the necessary increase to approximately 28.2% with an
average impact of $13.75 per month. That would only address FY 2027 and did not include
building maintenance, City Hall audio-visual and technology upgrades, patrol car cameras, and
other items that had been delayed for many years.

Mayor Bennion stated that police department upgrades like dash cameras are necessary to protect
the City from liability. Council Member Hyland agreed that the City needs to maintain its
investment in public safety. Cybercrime has increased, as have the associated infonnational
technology costs. Council Member Holton stated that the State recently appropriated $11 million
for municipal and school information technology ("IT") safety. Mr. Jurges repo1ted that the total
State contribution had actually decreased as they cut other items, but Federal Bureau of
Investigation and Criminal Justice Information System requirements must be met. The City's
liability insurance also requires specific IT infrastructure compliance.

Council Member Hyland stated that there was ~ consensus on the need for a property tax increase,
as well as the Council's commitment to retaining a citizen advisory committee and changing City
policies to include benchmarks and guardrails. The biggest hurdle with the Citizen Budget
Committee was helping them understand property taxation, fund accounting, and municipal
budgeting. Council Member Birrell _remarked that the City should get in front of the issue by
holding town hall meetings and proactively managing public perception.

Mr. Jurges reviewed new calculations and indicated that a 42.9% increase would net approximately
$3.5 million and increase the average property tax bill by $251 annually or $21 per month. That
amount would balance the budget for FY 2027 only, but did include the $200,000 in upfront costs
to bring parks maintenance in-house.

Council Member Newell recommended that incremental increases be considered so that the City
avoids this situation in the future. Mr. Gerber stated that some cities include Truth in Taxation on
their yearly calendars. For example, Murray has a yearly increase of 2% to 7%. Mr. Jurges stated
that he lives in West Jordan, which has had small yearly increases since 2020 that resulted in a
20% net increase over that time period. Cottonwood Heights only having one property tax increase
in 20 years was abnormal.

Council Member Hyland asked that the City Council agree on high-level budget priorities that can
be included in the narrative, which should also convey that City services are aligned with residents'
needs. Citizen feedback can then infonn the Council' s decisions moving forward.

Council Member Holton asked about Citizen Budget Committee recommendations. Mayor
Bennion stated that their opinions were varied. Council Member Hyland added that they did not
want a property tax increase unless the City Council commits to long-tenn policy changes that will
prevent the problem from recurring. Many members were adamant about cutting costs, but they
will not field calls when their road is not plowed for three days, or when police do not respond to
a call about prope1ty theft. In many jurisdictions, property theft reports are handled online and are
not investigated. To Council Member Birrell 's point, the town halls need to focus on the services
residents receive and the visible impacts of not increasing prope1ty taxes. She loves living on
Cottonwood Heights because she feels safe.

City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mayor Be1mion stated that the policy goal
is to reach a structural balance with ongoing revenue paying for ongoing costs. The Citizen Budget
Committee indicated that the City has let its debt get out of control, and that must be addressed.

Council Member Hyland referred to the FlashVote survey on property taxes, which had varied
comments and did not result in a consensus. Mr. Gerber stated that one thing that came out of it
is that the City needs to be fiscally responsible. There were no policies in place to guide decision-
making, and the City Council needs to promise residents that those guardrails will be put in place
and no ongoing costs will be added to the City budget without a matching revenue source. Council
Member Hyland stated that she would be willing to adopt Holladay's policies immediately.

Mayor Bennion agreed with Council Member Hyland and stated that the City is heading in a good
direction. She was happy for the Citizen Budget Committee's input and that the Council was
considering long-term policies to provide guardrails. She does not want the City to miss
opportunities because it has lost staff or has a tragedy occur due to not having enough police
officers. Cottonwood Heights needs to continue providing the level of service people moved here
for and make an investment in the City to prevent unnecessary liability and noncompliance.

Mr. Gerber asked for direct feedback on the budget. Mayor Bennion stated that it should include
all "shoulds" because they had been put off for too long. Council Member Newell agreed. Council
Member Hyland stated that she cannot support offering market, merit, and COLA increases. Mr.
Gerber asked the Council to provide a percentage increase rather than focus on a specific increase
type. Mayor Bennion stated that if the percentage inc1udes benefits, it should be 4%.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Geber clarified that the 01iginal
6% was an overall compensation increase, which included cmTent benefits costs only. Ms. Higgins
added that health insurance is increasing by 13% to 14% statewide this year. However, the City's
contract with Public Employees Health Program ("PEHP") was locked into a maximum 7.2%
mcrease.

After further discussion, it was decided that the total employee compensation increase should be
tentatively set at 3.5%.

3.      Town Center Update and Considerations/Changes.

Mr. Gerber reported on potential changes to the Town Center project. The City had the option to
sell a portion of the parcel to a residential developer and the grocery store pad site to a grocer that
does not lease space. He had spoken with the bond council, which indicated that the sale would
be allowed as long as any sale proceeds are applied to the public portion of the project. Council
Member Hyland stated that it would affect the back portion of the parcel, and construction could
begin soon. The residential development could be a for-sale product rather than for rent.

Mr. Geber noted that the Town Center had always been considered a legacy project that the City
would own and maintain in perpetuity, and the proposal would decrease the project by 50%.


City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
However, the City Council now had a better idea of the development schedule and what will be
required to relocate Walgreens and Dollar Tree, and there was ample time to consider the proposal.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Newell, Mr. Gerber confirmed that the sale
proceeds could be used to address the current leases, fund constrnction of the plaza, or possibly be
used in lieu of issuing a second bond.

Council Member Birrell was interested in the proposal based on being able to avoid the additional
$10 million GO Bond. She had hoped that reasons why the City cannot step away from the Town
Center project would be discussed at the meeting because members of the public have expressed
concern about moving forward.

Council Member Hyland stated that the upside of selling is that property tax revenues will be
received sooner. However, she understands the argument about it being a legacy project.

City Attorney, Shane Topham expressed concern about how the commercial portion would be
completed if the residential portion was not used to incentivize development. That created the risk
of the entire property being developed with residential. The project had been structured to require
the entire prope1iy to be developed in unison. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Mr. Topham agreed that it could be a negotiation point but pointed out that a contract is
not an assurance, and dividing the property would impact the viability of the commercial portion
of the project.

Rezoning the property was discussed, as well as appropriate building heights for the residential
po1iion. Mayor Bennion remarked that it is important to explore all possibilities. A large number
of residents did not vote in support of the project, so any options to reduce the financial impact
should be considered.

Mr. Gerber reported on changes to State Code regarding sunsetting of development areas. The
City had not yet established a TIF for the area. If that is not done within eight years, the area will
dissolve: However, it can be reestablished. Mr. Spung added that TIF funds would be available
for the entire 100-acre project area, not just the Town Center site.

4.      Highland Drive Improvements - Grants Discussion.

Mr. Gerber discussed the project's history. The 30% design phase had been completed, but the
project stalled after discussions with the City Council. There was no money available to complete
a second 30% design, and County funding was expiring. If the City did not move forward with
the project as originally designed, the funding would be lost.

Council Member Birrell asked for details on the required City match. Mr. Shipp repo1ied that the
estimated City match for the first portion, including the intersection and adjacent trail, is $150,000.
The second portion is a County project with no City match, but the $1.1 million in funding will
expire in December 2026. Staff was negotiating with the County to extend the deadline. Traffic
calming measures on Bengal Boulevard are included in that po1iion. Improvements to the Bengal
Boulevard intersection have a City match of approximately $160,000, which was already

City Council Retreat Minutes af March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights         Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      17
budgeted. A total of $2 million was received for the Phase II trail with a required City match of
$140,000. Mr. Shipp will be meeting with the Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") to
discuss the possibility of combining some phases. Staffs request was to move forward with at
least two po1iions of the project.

Specific improvements and safety issues were discussed. Council Member Holton expressed
concern about pedestrian safety for students walking to Brighton High School. Council Member
Birrell asked about a pedestrian study and discussed removing the slip lane. Council Member
Hyland remarked that traffic could back up if the slip lane is removed. Mayor Bennion directed
the conversation back to the funding question.

Mr. Shipp asked if the City Council wanted to move forward with the previously approved 30%
design. Council Member Birrell was concerned about property acquisition. Council Member
Hyland was not in favor of having the bus stop to the north or removing the slip lane. Council
Member Holton asked about adding a tum lane. Mr. Shipp stated that the island on the north side
cannot be moved, but there are options with the one to the south. The project would connect the
trail system and improve the intersection for traffic flow. Phase II preliminary design had been
completed for the trail on the west side of Highland Drive and behind Mountview Park. Council
Member Birrell was opposed to Phase III as she does not believe cyclists will use the trail. In
response to a question, Mr. Shipp reported that Staff would meet with Salt Lake County the
following week regarding a possible extension. Mayor Bennion expressed an interest in attending.

After further discussion, a majority of the City Council was in favor of moving forward. The item
would be placed on tbe next Work Session agenda.

5.      Adjourn

MOTION; Council Member Holton moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Retreat adjourned at 5:12 p.m.




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Retreat held Tuesday, March 24, 2026.

TerL Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




City Council Retreat Minutes of March 24, 2026   Cottonwood Heights   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
           ~--.:lo--.1 . ~
                           '(/)1'\       /

                Cottonwood Heights
                Ctry ill1u·u11 the rallJYJIIJ




                          3a.

                REPORT

           Visit Salt Lake

Chief Communications Officer Ryan Mack
       " -.-f:io-"""( ~ , ,

            Cottonwood Heights
            Cuy bttwt'm tht r,mJom




                   4a.

      STAFF REPORT
Economic Development Strategy
          Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting D    Work Session ~     Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                             Denied D    Approved IZI Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                             CM Signature:



Councilmember Hyland w ill lead a discussion on Economic Development Strategy.
              r fi:'\f,
        Cottonwood Heights
        Ciry WIU"ft'/1 ' ' " rdfl)Oltl




                  4b.

     STAFF REPORT
Utah Renewable Communities
       Sheldon Howa
                                                                                                     ~                    ~-,,.
                                                                                                         ~~~~~ood Heights
                                                                                                           f:1r, lortllfflf th, Alll)'l'IJ




Meeting Requested:             Business Meeting D      Work Session ~      Other □
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No~ Undetermined D
                               Denied D     Approved       Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature:

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
   •   The Utah Public Service Commission (PSC) approved the Community Clean Energy Program with
        modifications on March 4, 2026.
   •   Cottonwood Heights joined the effort to build the Community Clean Energy Program in 2021, informally
       referred to as the "Utah Renewable Communities (URC)."
   •    Following the recent PSC approval, the 19 participating URC communities are tasked with formally
        adopting the "Community Clean Energy Program" [referred to hereafter as, 'the program'], by
       ordinance. The city's deadline to adopt the ordinance to participate is June 2, 2026.
   •   This program would allow nearly all homes and businesses in Cottonwood Heights t o choose clean
        energy through their Rocky Mountain Power (RMP) bill. This is achieved with an added line item to RMP
        customers who support the program. RMP customers have the option to exit the program at any time.
   •    If enacted, RMP customers wouldn't be notified until the end of 2026, with the program and updated
        billing coming online in early 2027 (estimated).
   •   The initial residential rate adopted by the PCS is $4 per month. Income-eligible customers can receive a
        bill credit, enabling them to participate in the program at no additional cost.
   •   This program is intended to support new utility-scale clean energy development to the RMP grid that
        would be distinct from other clean energy offerings.
       The draft ordinance is attached for Council consideration.
        o   If adopted, Cottonwood Heights would be an official participant of the Community Clean Energy
            Program, as well as continue the city's participation in the URC Agency and ongoing collaboration
            with RMP to launch and operate the program.
        o   If denied, RMP customers in Cottonwood Heights will not be eligible to partici pate in the
            Community Clean Energy Program and the city will no longer participate in the URC Agency.

BACKGROUND
The Community Clean Energy Program, also known as Utah Renewable Communities (URC), is the result of a multi-
year, multi-community effort to create a new clean energy option in partnership with Rocky Mountain Power. The
program was authorized under state law and developed collaboratively by participating communities, RMP, and
state agencies, culminating in approval by the Public Service Commission in March 2026. The Program Application
was presented to the Utah Public Service Commission (PSC) in December of 2025 for review and consideration.
The PSC issued a ruling approving the application with modifications.

Cottonwood Heights has participated in this effort and has completed all required steps to reach the final decision
point: whether to adopt the program ordinance and implement the program locally.
(Note: Detailed legislative history, program development, and prior City involvement were provided in previous
Council materials.)

PROGRAM COMPARISON (EXISTING OPTIONS VS. URC PROGRAM)
Homes, businesses, and local governments served by RMP have a few different ways to access clean energy. The
URC program is distinct from existing offerings:

    •   The Blue Sky program has been around for nearly 26 years and allows participants to voluntarily
        contribute at $1.95 per 100 kWh "block" or 1.95 cents per kWh to support renewable energy. Blue Sky is
        an important program that supports grants to help organizations offset the cost of rooftop solar. Blue
        Sky participants also fund the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs) nationwide which, while
        helpful to the industry, does not significantly catalyze the growth of new utility-scale clean energy.
    •   Subscriber Solar offers RMP customers shares in an existing 20 MW solar farm in Southern Utah. While
        allowing customers to directly purchase a share of clean energy is an important benefit compared with
        Blue Sky, Subscriber Solar has a capped participation opportunity and RMP has not indicated they plan
        to build more projects to make available to additional subscribers.
    •   Customers can individually install rooftop solar on their homes or businesses. This is an important option
        to support renewable energy growth and energy security. However, it's expensive and only available to
        some types of customers with the funding and property types that allow for it.

URC Program (Key Distinction):
    o   Supports the development of new, utility-scale clean energy resources
    •   Available to nearly all customers, regardless of property type or financial capacity
    •   Integrated directly into existing RMP service

For these reasons, the Community Clean Energy Program developed by URC and RMP offers a unique option for
customers.

PROGRAM DETAILS

Customer participation and opt-out
The URC program was established under statute as an "opt-out" program, meaning that every eligible RMP
customer where the program is adopted by ordinance will be automatically enrolled, with the option to exit at
any time. Customers in these communities will see a new clean energy line item ("Schedule 100") on their RMP
bills as early as the first quarter of 2027. The new line item will only appear after certain additional processes by
the Agency and RMP are completed and approved by the PSC.

If Cottonwood Heights adopts the program, all eligible RMP customers in Cottonwood Heights will be
automatically enrolled when the Program commences (estimated early 2027), with the choice to opt out at any
time. There will be an initial "cancellation period" whereby customers exiting the program can do so without
incurring a termination fee . After the "cancellation period" customers can still exit, but will be subject to a
termination fee (outlined in Attachment B).

Initial program rate
One of the most significant outcomes of the PSC Order is the establishment of the initial program rate. The
initial residential flat rate is $4 per month ($3.88 per month plus a $0.12 low-income program surcharge). This
amount is in line with the Agency's targeted dollar amount to keep the program affordable and accessible to
customers.

The low-income proposal from the Agency was also approved by the PSC. Income-qualified residents who are on
Schedule 3 (RM P's Home Electric Lifeline Program, or HELP) will see a monthly rate of $3.88 which would be
matched by a $3.88 credit on their bill, offsetting costs for these customers.
For all other (non-residential) customer classes, the PSC approved a volumetric rate of $0.00609 per kWh and a
low-income surcharge of $0.12 per month. Bill impacts for these commercial customers will depend on the
amount of electricity they use each month.

Program rates over time
Rates will be adjusted periodically (not more than annually) to account for actual customer participation, annual
administrative cost true-ups, and the program valuation and resource costs . Regular rate adjustments happen
with all other utility ratemaking and are not unique to the URC program. It is not expected that future URC rates
will increase significantly from the initial program rate. Importantly, the PSC in its Order recognized that future
rates may even decline as the required administrative and resource reserve funds are established . Page 24 of
the PSC Order states:

        "While future Program rates may diverge from those under RM P's proposal contingent on later
        determinations regarding Resource Valuation and changes to other underlying variables, no
        evidence in the record suggests that Program rates are likely to meaningfully increase from the
        initial rates approved in this order. Instead, under RM P's proposal, they would decrease rather
        significantly after the first two years. At the Program's inception, customers will be deciding
        whether to opt-out with reference to rates that are likely to be higher than rates charged later,
        after the reserve balances are sufficiently established."

While this is not guaranteed and will be influenced by multiple factors including additional future resource
procurements, the PSC found it within the public interest to allow the Program to begin with an initial fixed rate
of $4 per month.                                                                           •

Customer noticing and estimated timeline
There are two distinct but important milestones in executing the Program, defined in the Order/State law.

    •   "Program Implementation" happens when the first customer notices are mailed.

    •   "Program Commencement" is when RMP initiates collection of Program rates.

Once the ordinance deadline of June 2 passes and RMP concludes its customer service upgrades (i.e. the
"Startup Activities") which are estimated to take approximately five months, RMP customers in a participating
community will receive their first official notices about the Program. The first noticing date is defined as the
beginning of "Program Implementation."

All eligible RMP customers in communities that adopt the Ordinance will receive two notices that are separate
from their bills. This includes at least one mailed notice. The second notice will be mailed or digital, depending
on customer communication preferences (i.e. if the customer has signed up for on line billing.) Large commercial
customers on Schedules 8 or 9 that have an electric load of one megawatt or greater will be offered a noticing
meeting, which may be conducted in-person or via video conference. All RMP customers in a participating
community will be eligible for the Community Clean Energy Program except for customers with rooftop solar on
Schedule 135.

The URC Agency forecasts that customer noticing will begin in late 2026. As required in the Act and Rules and
the Utility Agreement, any community that enacts the program (by passing the ordinance) is responsible for
reimbursing RMP for the cost of providing the two required notices to all program eligible RMP customers within
the community's boundaries. This expense is estimated to be $18,761.77 if the second notice can be delivered
by mailed or electronically base on the customers' communication preferences with RMP. Though, it is
anticipated that the notices will be mailed and electronically distributed, mailing both notices may result in a
higher cost estimate of $25,793.76 for Cottonwood Heights.
After the first notices go out, there will be t wo billing cycles, or approximately 60 days, until the clean energy
line item appears on RMP customer bills. This period of initial Program rate collection is defined as "Program
Commencement." The Agency is estimating that Program Commencement will occur in early 2027.

Please note that Utah House Bill 238 from 2026 passed and is currently awaiting the Governor's signatu re . This
bill adds additional requirements for the customer notices that are not expected to add additional burden to the
already planned noticing process.

Customer Eligibility and Exclusions
The program is designed to include nearly all Rocky Mountain Power customers within participating
communities; however, certain customers are not eligible or may be excluded:

    •    Customers on legacy net metering (Schedule 135):
         Customers with rooftop solar enrolled under this rate schedule are not eligible to participate in the
         program.

    •    Non-RMP customers:
         Only customers served by Rocky Mountain Power within City boundaries are eligible.

    •    Other potential exclusions:
         Certain customer classes or accounts may be excluded based on utility rate schedules or program rules
         established by the Utah Public Service Commission.

All other eligible customers will be automatically enrolled at program commencement, with the ability to opt out or
opt in at a later date.

PROGRAM ORDINANCE

How the ordinance was developed
A draft of the ordinance was included in the Program Application filed by RMP in 2025 as required by the Act
and Rules. The ordinance was originally drafted in 2022 and 2023 by URC's outside attorney with input from
several municipal attorneys representing communities on the URC Program Design Committee. The URC board
adopted this first draft of the template ordinance through Resolution 2023-01 in January 2023. Prior to the filing
of the Program Application, the board adopted an updated template ordinance through Resolution 2025-02.
This next version was updated to reflect changes to the Act and Rules that removed the requirement that
communities adopt a renewable energy goal by the end of 2019 to be eligible to participate.

Following the March 4, 2026, PSC Order, URC board members and our outside attorney prepared final revisions
to the template ordinance. These edits included minor changes like updating the date of the PSC order and
other changes to clarify where program details live, whether in the Act, Rules, Program Application, or PSC
order. The version of the ordinance before our council is the final template ordinance personalized for our
community (see Attachment C).

Ordinance details
The ordinance must do two key things:

     •   Enact the approved program by the community adopting the ordinance and

     •   Make it clear that the PSC has the final say on how the program will work.

There are three sections in the ordinance that cover the following:

     •   Preamble: describes the history and context for development of the URC program, including the Act,
         Rules, Program Application, and PSC order. The preamble also lays out the steps Cottonwood Heights
         took to be eligible to enact the program. The preamble is the one part of the ordinance that may look
           different for each of the 19 communities depending on how each community chooses to describe their
           reasoning for being part of the program.
   •       Program adoption: while short in length, this is the "action" of the ordinance - that the community's
           governing body votes to adopt the Commun ity Clean Energy Program.
   •       Exhibit A: provides an overview of the program, not by spelling out every detail regarding how the URC
           program works, but by referring to the PSC order, Administrative rules, and Legislative Act (HB 411) for
           specific details. Exhibit A also describes key elements of the approved program that will occur if
           Cottonwood Heights adopts the ordinance. This includes:
               •   Enabling all retail electricity customers in the current and future boundaries of Cottonwood
                   Heights to participate in the Program . Customers with rooftop solar are eligible to participate,
                   except those on Schedule 135 (the older net metering schedule).
               •   Defining the program " Implementation Date" as the date when RMP sends out its first notices
                   to customers of their forthcoming enrollment in the Program and describing the noticing
                   requirements of RMP.
               •   Explaining that eligible customers will be enro lled in the Program if they receive notices and
                   decline to opt-out by the date used in the notices and that any customer in a participating
                   community who is not enrolled in the Program may opt-in at any time. Customers in the
                   program can exit at any time.
               •   Acknowledging the Termination Fees for customers who opt out after t he cancellation period
                   and situations when Termination Fees will not occur.
               •   Describing the process and approvals needed for clean energy acquisition to serve the Program.
               •   Acknowledging that the PSC determines the Program rate and can approve adjustments to the
                   rates period ically.
                   Acknowledging that RMP is responsible for billing customers and notifying them of changes to
                   the Program rate.
               •   Describing the responsibilities of Cottonwood Heights with the program, including:
                        That Cottonwood Heights has participated in the design and approval of the Program and
                        will continue to participate in future decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation,
                        acquisition, and other issues.
                    •   That Cottonwood Heights entered into the Utility Agreement with RMP regarding the
                        program. Cottonwood Heights signed the Utility Agreement on June 15, 2021. The Utility
                        Agreement is consistent for all communities and RMP, as required by statute.
                    •   Per the Utility Agreement, Cottonwood Heights will reimbu rse RMP for their costs to
                        provide the two required notices to all eligible customers within our boundary.
                    •   That Cottonwood Heights already allocated and paid funds (when we joined the Agency)
                        which, in part, were used to re imburse the OCS and DPU for their costs of contracting third -
                         party expertise to evaluate the program.

NEXT STEPS
To participate, the city needs to adopt the program ordinance by June 2, 2026. The PSC order established an
initial program rate for residential and non-residential customers and approved what was proposed and some
modifications to the customer noticing and opt out process. Some details of the program, including the specific
methodology of how program resources will be valued and the approval of the first program resource wil l
require follow up wit h the PSC. URC will continue working with RMP and the other parties to the PSC docket to
pursue and seek approval fo r these follow up items in parallel to the ordinance adoption timeline.

The following are the next steps and requested action:

       •   Provide questions and feedback on the material presented
       •   Discuss and consider the program ord inance
FISCAL IMPACTS
Following the approval of the program by the Utah Public Service Commission, if the city elects to adopt the
Program Ordinance, the city will be responsible for reimbursing Rocky Mountain Power (RMP) for the cost of
providing required customer notices.

Pursuant to the Act, associated rules, and the Utility Agreement, participating communities must fund two
rounds of customer notifications to all eligib le RMP customers w ithin city boundaries. The URC Agency
anticipates that noticing will begin in late 2026.

The estimated cost for these notification efforts is:

    •   $18,761.77 if the second notice is delivered either by mail or electronically, based on customer
        communication preferences; or
    •   Up to $25,793.76 if both notices are distributed by mail.

No additional city funds are anticipated for ongoing program administration or program resource costs, as these
will be borne by participating customers through the program rate.

This expense would only be incurred if the city adopts the Program Ordinance within the PSC-mandated
timeframe.

RECOMMENDATION
Discussion item only.

ATTACHMENTS
Attachment A: Process to develop the Community Clean Energy Program

Attachment B: Termination fee per customer class for Schedule 100, which is the rate schedule for Community
                 Clean Energy Program participants

Attachment C: The fina l program ordinance for consideration
                      l~,
           Cottonwood Heights
           Ciry illm•m1 1/,e GITIJ'OIIJ




                     4c.

       STAFF REPORT
Butler Hills Crosswalk Discussion
           Matt Shipp
Meeting Requested:             Business Meeting D      Wo rk Session [g]   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes D No [g] Undetermined D
                               Denied D Approved [g] Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature:



Mayor Bennion will lead a discussion on Butler Hills Crosswa lk.
         ~   ~       ..Llr l f \ ,
             Cottonwood Heights
              City !N111-rm 1hr r,IIIJ'Olll




                       4d.

        STAFF REPORT
FlashVote - Next Survey Discussion
             Jared Gerber
                                                                                          Qia;;f,,,,
                                                                                           ~~~;:ood
                                                                                            c,,,-
                                                                                                         Heights
                                                                                                  ,Iv,,...,..,,.
                                                                                                brtrrr,,




Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting O     Work Session ~     Other □
Public Hearing
Needed?                   Yes □ No ~ Undetermined D

CM Approval or Denial     Deni~d D Approved ~        ~17ued D
                          CM Signature: ____L---,,_Q  d::!=

Background
The City Manager will lead a short discussion on the next potential survey and the topics that were
decided on by the City Council in previous meetings. Future topics we discussed for the remaining
surveys include:

1. General Plan

2. Short-term Rentals

3. Intersection Safety
                     ( ~        I


            Cottonwood Heights
            Ciry bt11<-em th~ mnyom




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                   5.0
           REPORTS
     Finance Quarterly Report
           Scott Jurges
          (   ~\      I


 Cottonwood Heights
 Cuy bnu-«11 rht m11Jo111




         6.0
Action Items
Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                      Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                      Tuesday, April 14, 2026 12:08 PM
To:                        Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                   [EXT:]Legislation for April 21st City Council Meeting
Attachments:               WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 463 Approving a Second Driveway Exception.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                           Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to Building Services Agreement with Sunrise Engineering
                           (2026-2029).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-First Amendment to 2023 Agreement for Building Services with Sunrise
                           Engineering (CLEAN 3.30.2026).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to
                           the Architectural Review Commission (ARC).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain
                           Property Surplus (Ford F-1 SO Vehicle).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-26 Approving ILA with State of
                           Utah re Wildland Fire Program.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-2026 Cooperative Wildland Fire Agreement.pdf;
                           Cottonwood Heights 2026 PC Calculation.pdf; Cottonwood Heights PC Statement and action items.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the April 21 st city council
meeting are attached for your review and comment:

      1. Ordinance 463. Pursuant to CHC 14.12.150 thi s ordinance will grant an exception to CHC
         14.12.11 0(B)(1 ) by approving a second driveway access to 6670 South for a residence located at
         1720 East 6670 South.
      2. Resolution 2026-23. This resolution w ill approve the city's entry into the first amendment to the
         current agreement for building services whereunder Sunrise Engineering, LLC provides plan
         review and building inspection services to the city. The main purpose of the amendment is to
         extend its t erm from 30 June 2026 to 30 June 2029. A copy of the proposed agreement also is
         attached .
      3. Resolution 2026-24. Thi s resolution w ill approve the reappointment of Scott Peters and Jesse
         Allen to th e city's Architectural Review Commission.
      4. Resolution 2026-25. By this resolution , the council will declare surplus and designate the method
         of disposition of a Ford F-150 vehicle owned by the city.
      5. Resolution 2026-26. By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into an interlocal
         agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for participation in the division's
         " Wild land Fire Program " to cooperatively meet their joint responsibilities for protecting non-
         federal land from wi ld land fire. A copy of the proposed interlocal agreement with its attachments
         also is attached.

Please contact me as soon as possible if t here are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHAN E TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801 .808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of t his e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not th e intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com.

                                                                 1
EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                2
                      "-&,,,--r;;..11U .·~
                                      "( I) '\   I


                             Cottonwood Heights
                             City br1uw11 1hr mn:,om




                                     6.1
                        Ordinance 463
Pursuant to Cottonwood Heights Code 14 .12 .15 0 this ordinance
     will grant an exception to Cottonwood Heights Code
  14.12.1 lO(B)(l) by approving a second driveway access to
                           6670 South.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 463

                   AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AN EXCEPTION UNDER
                   SECTION 14.12.150 OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                    CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR A SECOND DRIVEWAY

        WHEREAS, although Section 14.12.ll0{B)(l) of the code of ordinances (the "Code") of
the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") provides that a single-family dwelling shall be
permitted only one access to the adjoining public road unless a circular driveway approach is
utilized, under Code Section 14.12.150 the City's city council (the "Councif') may approve
variations or exceptions to standard requirements where unusual topographical or other
exceptional circumstances exist so long as such exceptions aren't detrimental to public safety or
welfare; and

        WHEREAS, although the owner ("Owner") of the real property (the "Property") known
as 1720 East 6670 South in the City desires to provide compliant off-street parking for a proposed
accessory dwelling unit ("ADU'), the Property presents site constraints that make an adequately-
sized single driveway or a circular driveway impractical without excessive additional cost, site
disruption and loss of existing mature trees and landscaping; and

      WHEREAS, consequently Owner applied to the City for permission to construct a second
driveway on the Property to provide the required parking for the ADU; and

     WHEREAS, on 1 April 2026 the City's planning cornm1ss1on (the "Planning
Commission") recommended approval of such application; and

        WHEREAS, on 21 April 2026 the Council met in regular session to consider, among other
things, approving an exception under Code Section 14.12.150 to Code Section 14.12 .11 0(B)(I)' s
prohibition on more than one driveway access to the adjoining public road as requested by Owner
(the "Exception"); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to so act;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.      Approval o(Exception. The Council hereby approves the Exception and
hereby authorizes the proposed second driveway on the Property as recommended by the Planning
Commission, finding that such exception is not detrimental to public safety or welfare.

       Section 2.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.       Sever"bilitv. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision ofthis Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repelller. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 463, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 21 th day of April 2026.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                         By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay _
                                             Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                             Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 21 st day of April 2026.

       POSTED this _ day of April 2026.




                                                2
                                      ( ~\         (



                          Cottonwood Heights
                           Ciry brrwu11 rh< r,i rt)YJJU




                                    6.2
                      Resolution 2026-23
    This resolution will approve the city's entry into the first
   amendment to the current agreement for building services
whereunder Sunrise Engineering, LLC provides plan review and
building inspection services to the city. The main purpose of the
 amendment is to extend its term from 30 June 2026 to 30 June
                              2029.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-23

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING TIIE FIRST AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT
            FOR BUILDING SERVICES W1TH SUNRISE ENGINEERING, LLC
                                          (2026-2029)

       WHEREAS, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 21 April 2026 to consider, among other things, approving the
"First Amendment to Agreement for Building Services" (the "Agreement") with Sunrise
Engineering, LLC ("Sunrise") whereunder Sw1rise would provide, among other things, plan
review and building inspection services to the City as specified in the Agreement through 30 June
2029;and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-23, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 21 April 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - -- -- - - -                     B y : - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay _
                                              Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                              J. Scott Bracken              Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21 st day of April 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of April 2026.
        First Amendment to Agreement for Building Services
       TIDS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT FOR BUILDING SERVICES (this
"Amendment") is made effective 21 April 2026 by SUNRISE ENGINEERING, LLC, a Utah
limited liability company f/k/a SUNRISE ENGINEERING, INC., a Utah corporation
("Provider"), and COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality ("City").



       A.      Effective I July 2023 the parties entered into an "Agreement for Building Services"
(the "Agreement") whereunder City engaged Provider to provide certain plan examination,
building inspection, technical and other building services on the terms and conditions specified in
the Agreement.

       B.     The parties now desire to amend the Agreement as provided in this Amendment,
having determined that it is mutually advantageous to so act.

                                      AGREEMENT:

        NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties described herein, and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

       Section I.    Capitalized Terms. Each capitalized term used in this Amendment shall
have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement, unless otherwise defined in this Amendment.

       Section 2.      Amendments.

               (a)     The following sentence is omitted from Section 2{a) of the Agreement:
       "Provider shall provide, at Provider's cost, a qualified technician to accept building
       plans, permit applications and the like at City's offices from 8:00 a.m. until 12:00
       p.m. each day that City's offices are open to the Public, for a total of at least 20
       hours during a standard work week."
                 (b)   Section 4 of the Agreement is hereby amended and restated to read in its
entirety as follows:
               4. Term. This Agreement is binding and enforceable on the date first
       above written. Provider's obligation to perform any Building Services hereunder
       shall commence on the effective date of this Agreement and, unless renewed or
       sooner terminated as provided for herein, shall terminate at 11 :59:59 p.m. on 30
       June 2029.

                 (c)     The City's notice address in Section 27 is hereby amended and restated to
read in its entirety as follows:
               City:                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                                      Attn. City Manager
                                      2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                                      Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l
     Section 3.    No Other Modification. Except as specifically amended by this
Amendment, the Agreement is unmodified and remains in full force and effect between the parties.
         DATED effective the date first-above written.



ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


By: -- - - -- -- - - -                       By: _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ __
       Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion , Mayor


ATTEST:                                      SUNRISE ENGINEERING, LLC, a Utah limited
                                             liability company      f/k/a       SUNRISE
                                             ENGINEERING, INC., a Utah corporation


By:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                        By: James Short        ~
Its:                                         Its: Division M ~
   - -- - - - - -- --




                                                2
                                     ( ~,

                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry btfU'«II th< (1111)¥1111




                                    6.3
                     Resolution 2026-24
 This resolution will approve the reappointment of Scott Peters
and Jesse Allen to the city's Architectural Review Commission.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-24

                      A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO REAPPOINTMENTS
                        TO THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMISSION

        WHEREAS, section 19.49.020 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code")
establishes an "architectural review commission" (the "ARC') for the city of Cottonwood Heights
(the "City"), responsible for, inter alia, reviewing and making recommendations on all
development, whether commercial or residential , proposed for the City' s Gateway Overlay
District; and

       WHEREAS, the Code provides that the ARC consists of at least five regular members and
up to two at-large, alternate members appointed for staggered two-year terms by the City's
manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the City's city council (the "Councif'); and

        WHEREAS, the Cmmcil met on 21 April 2026 to consider, among other things, approving
and ratifying (a) the Manager's reappointment of Jesse Allen and Scott Peters as regular members
of the ARC; and (b) the current composition of membership of the ARC; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to consent to such
reappointments to the ARC proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Council hereby ratifies and consents to (a) the reappointments specified above, and (b) the
status of the following individuals as all the members of the ARC as of the effective date of this
resolution for the terms of office set forth opposite each name:

               Name                                         Term Expires

       Jesse Allen                                          1 May 2028

       Scott Peters                                         1 May 2028

       Niels E. Valentiner                                  I May 2027

       Sarah Kovac                                          I May 2027

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-24, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 21 April 2026.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __                      By: - -- -- - - - - - - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland                Yea _ Nay _
                                   Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder on 21 April 2026.

RECORDED this _       day of April 2026.




                                      2
                                     "( ff>\ I

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ciry bm,'«11 rh~ r.inJo,u




                                   6.4
                      Resolution 2026-25
By this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate
the method of disposition of a Ford F-150 vehicle owned by the
                               city.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-25

                A RESOLUTION DECLARING CERTAIN PROPERTY SURPLUS

      WHEREAS, §2.150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

        WHEREAS, the City's finance director previously has determined the surplus nature of
certain City property in accordance with Code §2. l 50.060(B) and has prepared and presented to
the City's city council (the "Council") listings (collectively, the "List") of such property (the
"Property") as required by Code §2.150.060(C), a copy of which is attached hereto as Addendum
"A"; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 21 April 2026 to consider, among other things, (a)
reviewing the List; (b) declaring the Property surplus; (c) establishing a minimum bid for each
item of the Property that is of greater than nominal value; and (d) approving the method of
determining the highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Property whose
reasonable value exceeds $5,000; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the List and careful consideration, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City
to (a) declare the Property on the List surplus; (b) establish a minimum bid for each item of the
Property that is of greater than nominal value; and (c) approve the method of detennining the
highest and best economic return to the City of all items of the Property whose reasonable value
exceeds $5,000;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        I.    The Property on the List is hereby declared to be surplus and no longer needed by
the City; and

        2.     All Property on the List is hereby declared to be of nominal value except any items
of the Property which are identified on the attached List as having greater than nominal value; and

        3.     The minimum bid for any items of the Property of greater than nominal value shall
be as specified on the attached List; and

       4.      The methods of determining the highest and best economic return to the City of all
items of the Property whose reasonable value is specified on the List as exceeding $5,000 shall be
as shown on the attached List, which methods are hereby approved by the Council.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-25, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 21 April 2026.
ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



                                         By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __
By:------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea _ Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21 st day of April 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of April 2026.




                                             2
                        Addendum "A"
       Surplus Item     Nominal    Minimum Bid     Method of Valuation
                         Value?

2023 Ford F-150,          No        $30,000.00     ksl.com classifieds or
VIN IFTFWIED4PFB89897                            similar on-line classifieds




                               3
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting IZl   Work Session IZl   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No IZl Undetermined D
                             Denied D    Approved D Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:



Cottonwood Heights Police Department
Date: October 30, 2025
Subject: Request for Surplus of Police vehicle 2023 Ford F-150 VIN 1FTFW1ED4PFB89897

Purpose
This memo serves to request approval to surplus a 2023 Ford F-150 vehicle VIN 1FTFW1ED4PFB89897.
Cun-ent mileage is 31,436. Vehicle color is Gray. We anticipate the vehicle to sell between $30,000 and
$35,000 with a minimum value of $30,000. We plan on selling this through KSL classifieds or some other
online classifieds option.

Rationale for Surplus
This vehicle is no longer needed by the police department, and they would like to utilize funds obtained by the
sale of this vehicle to offset other anticipated costs.

As the budget officer I recommend this vehicle be surplused as described.
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ciry llltu'«l1 rhr m11yom




                                   6.5
                      Resolution 2026-26
By this resolution, the council will approve the city's entry into
an interlocal agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and
  State Lands for participation in the division's "Wildland Fire
 Program" to cooperatively meet their joint responsibilities for
         protecting non-federal land from wildland fire.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-26

        A RESOLUTION .APPROVING ENTRY INTO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
             WITH UTAH DIVISION OF FORESTRY, FIRE AND STATE LANDS
               FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE WILDLAND FIRE PROGRAM

        WHEREAS, the lnterlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §11-13-101 et. seq. (the
"lnter!ocal Cooperation Act"), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency; and

        WHEREAS, the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (the "Division") and
the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") are public agencies for purposes of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 65A-8-203 each county, municipality or
other eligible entity is required to enter into an agreement with the Division to cooperatively
discharge their joint responsibilities for protecting non-federal land from wildland fire; and

       WHEREAS, the Division has submitted for City's approval a proposed interlocal
agreement and related statement, etc. (the "Agreement") between City and the Division
whereunder the parties will cooperatively discharge such responsibilities through participation in
the Division's "Wildland Fire Program" as described in the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the "Council") met in regular session on 21
April 2026 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

       WHEREAS, the city attorney of the City has approved the form of the Agreement as
required by Utah Code Ann. §11-13-202.5(3); and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry
into the Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights that the attached Agreement be, and hereby is, approved, and that the City's
mayor and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf
of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-26, shall take effect immediately upon passage.
     PASSED AND APPROVED this 21 st day of April 2026.


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - - - - - -- --              B y : - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay _
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21 st day of April 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of April 2026.




                                            2
                               COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT


         This Cooperative Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 21st day
of April            2026 (the "Effective Date"), by and between the Utah Division of Forestry,
Fire and State Lands ("FFSL") and                       Cottonwood Heights
(the "Participating Entity"). FFSL and the Participating Entity may sometimes be referred to in
this Agreement individually as a "Party" or, collectively, as the "Parties."


                                           RECJTALS
   A. Pursuant to Utah Code Section 65A-8-203, this Agreement is required for a county,
       municipality, or certain other Eligible Entities and the State of Utah, by and through
      .FFSL, to cooperatively discharge their joint responsibilities for protecting non-federal
       land from wildland fire.
   B. The Participating Entity is a county, municipality, or other Eligible Entity, as defined in
       Section I of this Agreement.
   C. The Participati11g Entity is eligible to enter into a Cooperative Agreement under Utah
      Administrative Code R652-121 and R651-122 .
   D. FFSL provided to the Participating Entity, and the Participating Entity signed and
      returned to FFSL, the Annual Participation Commitment Statement before the Effective
      Date of this Agreement.
   E. The fire department or equivalent fire service provider under contract with, or delegated
      by, the Participating Entity on unincorporated land meets minimum standards for
      wildland fire training, certification, and suppression equipment based upon nationally
      accepted standards, determined by FFSL.
                                         AGREEMENT

       I. Definitions
       For the purposes of this Agreement:

          I. "Annual Participation Commitment Report" means a report prepared by the
             Participating Entity, detailing the expenditures and activities conducted in
             compliance with the Participation Commitment during the past calendar year.
          2. "Annual Participation Commitment Statement" means a statement, signed by both
             FFSL and the Participating Entity, detailing both the monetary value of the
             Participation Commitment for the upcoming calendar year and the detailed
             activities the Participating Entity plans to perform to fulfill their Participation
             Commitment for that year.
          3. "Catastrophic Wildfire" means wildland fires whose size and intensity cause
             significant impacts to State and local economies, critical infrastructure, the
             environment, and private landowners.

                                                1
   4. "Cooperative Agreement" means the same as the tenn is defined in Utah
       Adnunistrative Code R652-1-200.
   5. "Delegation of Fire Management Authority" means the acceptance by FFSL of
       responsibility for:
            i. Managing a wildfire; and
           ii. The cost of fire suppression, as described in Utah Code Section 65A-8-
                203.
   6. "Direct Expenditure" means funds spent by a Participating Entity to implement
       wildland fire prevention, preparedness, or mitigation efforts both agreed to
       between the Parties and approved by FFSL.
   7. "Direct Payment" means an alternative method of meeting all, or part, of the
       participation commitment by paying FFSL directly, as identified in Utah Code
       Section 65A-8-203.
   8. "Director" means the division director of FFSL.
   9. "Eligible Entity" means the same as the tenn is defined in Utah Code Section
       65A-8-203.
   10. "Extended Attack" means actions taken in response to wildland fire after Initial
       Attack.
   11. "Firefighter" means an individual trained in wildland firefighting techniques and
       assigned to a position of hazardous duty.
   12. "Initial Attack" means actions taken by the first resources to arrive at any
       wildland fire incident, including-without limitation-size-up, patrolling,
       monitoring, holding action, or aggressive suppression action.
   13. "In-Kind Activity" means an activity for wildland fire prevention, preparedness,
       or mitigation efforts both agreed to between the Parties and approved by FFSL.
       The value of an In-Kind Activity shall be detennined by using the rate calculated
       by the Independent Sector, https://www.independentsector.org/.
   14. "Minimum Billing Threshold" means the dollar value of expenses not charged to
       the Participating Entity but incurred by FFSL, on behalf of the Participating
       Entity, on Initial Attack prior to Delegation of Fire Management Authority.
   15. "Participation Commitment" means prevention, preparedness, and mitigation
       actions and expenditures, including those identified in an FFSL-approved CWPP
       or equivalent wildland fire preparedness plan, undertaken by a Participating
       Entity to reduce the risk of wildland fire and meet the intent of Utah Code
       Sections 65A-8-202 and 65A-8-202.5.
   16. "Participating Entity" means an Eligible Entity with a valid Cooperative
       Agreement.


II. Term.
       1. The tenn of this Agreement shall be five (5) years from the Effective Date.

III. Participation Commitment.

                                        2
 1. Annual Statement.
          a. FFSL shall send the Participating Entity an Annual Participation
              Commitment Statement at least three (3) months in advance of the
              end of each calendar year during the tenn of this Agreement.
          b. Upon receipt of an Annual Participation Commitment Statement, the
             Participating Entity shall complete the annual plan portion of the
             Annual Participation Commitment Statement outlining the actions it
              intends to take that address the wildfire threat. Within sixty (60) days
             of receipt of an Annual Participation Commitment Statement, the
             Participating Entity shall send the completed annual plan to FFSL
             for review and approval.
         c. Upon receipt of the Participating Entity's annual plan, FFSL shall
             review the annual plan. FFSL may request additional information
             before approving the annual plan. Upon FFSL's approval of the
             annual plan, FFSL shall sign and send the Annual Participation
             Commitment Statement to the Participating Entity for signature.
         d. Upon receipt of the signed Annual Participation Commitment from
             FFSL, the Participating Entity's chief executive shall sign and return
             the fully executed Annual Participation Commitment Statement to
             FFSL by the deadline provided. In the event the Participating Entity
             fails to sign and return the Annual Participation Commitment
             Statement by the deadline provided, this Agreement will tenninate at
             the conclusion of the last calendar year in which the Participating
             Entity complied with this requirement.
2. Fulfillment.
         a. The Participating Entity shall meet its Participation Commitment, as
             detennined by FFSL, pursuant to Utah Administrative Code R652-
             122.
         b. The Participating Entity shall meet its Participation Commitment
             through direct expenditures, direct payment, in-kind activities, or any
             combination of the three that are mutually agreed upon by the
             Parties.
3. Consultation.
         a. The Participating Entity may consult with FFSL to identify valid
             Participation Commitment actions and activities, based on the
             Participating Entity's FFSL-approved CWPP or equivalent wildfire
             preparedness plan.
4. Accounting.
         a. The Participating Entity shall account for its respective Participation
             Commitment activities and expenditures through the Utah Wildfire
             Assessment Risk Portal ("UWRAP").




                                  3
        b. Beginning January 1, 2025, all qualifying Participation Commitment
             expenditures and activities count toward the Participating Entity's
             first full-year Participation Commitment.
        c. The value of Participation Commitment expenditures and activities
             may, with approval ofFFSL, carry-over to the next calendar year.
        d. With the Director's approval, or approval of a designee, the value of
             capital improvement actions may carry-over for up to five (5) years
             and the value of non-capital improvement actions may carry-over for
             up to three (3) years.
        e. The Participating Entity must receive written approval from the
             Director, or designee, before pursuing carry-over for a specific
             action or activity under this Section III(4).
        f. Amounts reported annually in excess of Participation Commitment
             do not carry-over without written approval from the Director, or
             designee, under this Section III(4).
5. Reporting.
        a. The Participating Entity shall record and account for its Participation
             Commitment actions and expenditures in UWRAP.
        b. The Participating Entity shall provide an annual accounting of its
             activities and expenditures to FFSL for review and approval in the
            manner and fonn specified by FFSL.
        c. The Participating Entity shall account for, track, and report any year-
            to-year carry-over under Section III(4) of this Agreement in
            UWRAP.
        d. FFSL may review and verify records related to the Participating
            Entity's Participation Commitment at any time.
        e. FFSL may reject records related to the Participating Entity's
            Participation Commitment deemed by FFSL to be unverifiable,
            incorrect, or not approved in the Participating Entity's signed
            Participation Commitment Statement.
6. Calculation.
        a. FFSL shall calculate the Participation Commitment based on a
            wildfire risk assessment by acres (the "Risk Assessment"),
            conducted by FFSL, and the historic fire cost average ("Fire Cost
            Average") in the Participating Entity' s jurisdiction, pursuant to Utah
            Administrative Code R652- l 22.
        b. The Risk Assessment calculation shall be adjusted for inflation using
            the Consumer Price Index.
        c. FFSL shall calculate the Fire Cost Average based on historic
            suppression costs accrued within the Participating Entity's
            jurisdiction. The Fire Cost Average shall only include wildland fire
            suppression costs accrued and paid by FFSL on behalf of a
            Participating Entity within the Participating Entity's jurisdiction. The

                                 4
                   Fire Cost Average may include State-paid costs after Delegation of
                   Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility
                   has occurred within the Participating Entity's jurisdiction.
              d. The Fire Cost Average shall be calculated on a rolling, ten-year
                   average, dropping the highest and lowest cost years and adjusting for
                   inflation using the Consumer Price Index. Each ten-year average
                   shall contain eight data points.
       7. Appeals.
              a. Where permitted by Utah Administrative Code R652-122 and within
                   ninety (90) days of the occurrence, the Participating Entity may
                   appeal a decision regarding its Participation Commitment by
                   submitting to the Director a written appeal that states the reasons for
                   the appeal.

IV. Initial Attack.
        1. The Participating Entity shall have primary responsibility for Initial Attack
            ("IA") on all nonfederal lands within the response area of the Participating
            Entity or within the response area of any delegee of the Participating Entity.
        2. IA may include different resources based on fire danger, fuel type, values to
            be protected, and other factors.
        3. Pursuant to Utah Code Sections 65A-8-202-202.5 and in accordance with this
            Agreement, FFSL shall determine reasonable and effective wildfire IA by
            verifying that the Participating Entity has adequate resources and equipment
            to manage IA.
        4. The Participating Entity shall have :financial responsibility for all IA costs
            within its jurisdiction, other than aviation costs.
        5. FFSL shall have financial re-Sponsibility for all IA aviation costs.

V. Delegation of Fire Management Authority and Transfer of .Fiscal Responsibility.
      1. Delegation of Fire Management Authority and the transfer of fiscal
         responsibility to FFSL for a wildland fire shall occur simultaneously with one
         of the following events:
               a. The involvement of state-owned or federally-owned lands in the
                   wildland fire;
               b. The order, beyond pre-planned dispatch, of firefighting resources
                   through an Interagency Fire Center;
               c. The request of the Participating Entity with jurisdiction through its
                   local fire official on scene with authority to do so; or
               d. The decision of the Director, after consultation with local authorities.
      2. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority to FFSL, FFSL, or its
         designee, shall be the primary incident commander in a unified command
         environment with the agency having jurisdiction.


                                        5
       3. Deployment of aviation assets on pre-planned dispatch, as established by the
          State, does not cause an automatic Delegation of Fire Management Authority.

VI. Extended Attack.
       I. Immediately upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, the incident
          commander shall record a timestamp via radio with the Interagency Fire
          Center servicing the incident.
       2. The Crew Time Report ("CTR") or Shift Ticket of all resources not covered
          by a no-cost local agreement, such as an automatic aid system or other inter-
          local agreement, shall also reflect the timestamp recorded in Section VI(I).
       3. Immediately upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, a new CTR or
          Shift Ticket shall be started for all resources to be used in the Extended
          Attack.
       4. All incident commanders named on the incident organizer shall sign
          delegation documentation. Resource needs shall be reevaluated in the
          transition from IA to Extended Attack.
       5. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, and if the Participating
          Entity is compliant with relevant statutes, regulations, and the tenns of this
          Agreement, FFSL shall be financially responsible for wildland fire
          suppression costs incurred beyond IA.

VII.   Wildland Fire Response Training and Certification.
       1. The Participating Entity shall ensure Firefighters providing IA within the
          Participating Entity's jurisdiction are trained in NWCG S 130 Firefighter
          Training and S 190 Introduction to Wild land Fire Behavior.
       2. The Participating Entity shall ensure firefighters providing IA within the
          Participating Entity's jurisdiction have completed RT130 Annual Fireline
          Safety Refresher Training prior to each statutory "closed fire season," as
          defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-21 l.
       3. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, FFSL may release from IA,
          or reassign to other firefighting duties, any Firefighter not certified as a
          NWCG Wildland Firefighter II.

VIII. Wildland Fire Response Equipment Standards.
   I . The Participating Entity shall ensure engines, water tenders, hand tools, and water
       handling equipment used for response to wildland fire on nonfederal land within
       the Participating Entity's jurisdiction meet the National Wildfire Coordinating
       Group standards and, if applicable, the FFSL Fire Department Manual standards.

IX. Wildland Fire Cost Recovery Actions.
       I. Pursuant to Utah Code Title 65A and Utah Administrative Code R652, and
          when an investigation reasonably shows a person or persons started a wildfire
          by acting in a negligent, reckless, or intentional manner, the Participating

                                        6
          Entity shall initiate a civil action to recover all wildland fire costs incurred for
          a particular wildland fire ("Cost Recovery Action"), except for when
          Delegation of Fire Management Authority has occurred. FFSL may assist the
          Participating Entity in a Cost Recovery Action under this Section IX(l).
       2. The Participating Entity shall notify FFSL once it has initiated a Cost
          Recovery Action.
       3. If the Participating Entity recovers from a Cost Recovery Action, the
          Participating Entity shall provide to FFSL documentation verifying wildland
          fire costs by the Participating Entity and the legal costs incurred for the Cost
          Recovery Action.
       4. The Participating Entity may retain costs recovered up to and not exceeding
          its incurred wildland fire costs-including legal fees in pursuing the Cost
          Recovery Action. All other recovered costs shall be tendered to FFSL for
          distribution amongst other entities with incurred suppression costs.
       5. The value of costs incurred and recovered by the Participating Entity may
          reduce the Participating Entity's Historic Fire Cost Average and Participation
          Commitment.
       6. FFSL may initiate a Cost Recovery Action at any time, including when
          Delegation of Fire Management Authority has occurred and upon notice by
          the Participating Entity under Section IX(4).

X. Probation Status.
      1. At the end of each calendar year, FFSL shall review the Participating Entity's
          compliance with the tenns of this Agreement.
      2. If the Participating Entity is out of compliance, FFSL shall place the
          Participating Entity on "Probation Status" and provide the Participating Entity
          with a "Probation Notice" including:
                 a. Notice of the Probation Status;
                 b. The reason for the Probation Status;
                 c. The action(s) the Participating Entity must take to remedy the
                      Probation Status; and
                 d. The time frame within which the Probation Status may be remedied.
      3._ If the reason for the Probation Status is the Participating Entity's failure to
          fulfill its Participation Commitment for the previous calendar year:
                 a. The Participating Entity shall fulfill its Participation Commitment
                      for the previous year and its Participation Commitment for the
                      current calendar year within the Probation Notice time frame;
                 b. FFSL shall credit the Participating Entity's Participation
                      Commitment expenditures and actions toward the Participating
                      Entity's outstanding obligation before it may credit the expenditures
                      and actions toward the current obligation;
                 c. FFSL may, based on evidence of a good faith effort to comply with
                      Section X(3)(a) and at the sole discretion of FFSL, extend the

                                          7
                      Probation Notice time frame if the underlying noncompliance is not
                      timely remedied; and
                 d. FFSL shall lift the Probation Status if the underlying noncompliance
                      is remedied within the Probation Notice time frame.
       4. If the reason for the Probation Status is the Participating Entity's
          noncompliance with one or more tenns of this Agreement, apart from a failure
          to fulfill its Participation Commitment:
                 a. The Participating Entity shall remedy the underlying noncompliance
                      that led to the Probation Status within the Probation Notice time
                      frame;
                 b. FFSL shall lift the Probation Status if the underlying noncompliance
                      is remedied within the Probation Notice time frame; and
                c. FFSL may, pursuant to Section XI, revoke this Agreement if the
                      underlying noncompliance is not remedied within the Probation
                     Notice time frame.
       5. For the duration of the Probation Status, this Agreement remains valid.

XI. Revocation.
       l. FFSL may revoke this Agreement by providing written notice to the
           Participating Entity no later than forty-five (45) days from the start or end of
           the statutory fire season, as defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-2 l l.
       2. If the Participating Entity signed and returned the Annual Participation
          Commitment Statement to FFSL, a revocation by FFSL shall be effective in
          the calendar year following the year the Annual Participation Commitment
           Statement was signed and returned.
       3. The Participating Entity may revoke this Agreement by:
                 a. Providing written notice to FFSL of its intent to revoke this
                     Agreement; or
                 b. By failing to sign and reh1rn the Annual Participation Commitment
                     Statement to FFSL, unless a written extension for return has been
                     granted by FFSL.
       4. Any revocation of this Agreement is considered a tennination of the
          Agreement.
       5. If either FFSL or the Participating Entity revokes this Agreement, the
          Participating Entity may only enter into a new CWS cooperative agreement
          with FFSL if the Participating Entity meets the requirements under Utah
          Administrative Code R652- l 2 l and the Participating Entity pays FFSL all
          outstanding wildland fire suppression costs in full.
       6. If FFSL revokes this Agreement after the Participating Entity was placed on
          Probation Status, the Participating Entity shall be responsible for all costs of
          wildland fire suppression incurred by FFSL within the Participating Entity's
          jurisdiction from the date of the Probation Notice to the revocation of this
          Agreement.

                                         8
       7. A revocation of this Agreement by FFSL may be infonnally appealed to the
          Director within thirty (30) days of the notice of revocation being provided.

XII.   Renewal, Amendment, and Compliance with Applicable Laws.
       1. If neither FFSL nor the Participating Entity revoke this Agreement under
          Section XI, this Agreement may renew for a consecutive five (5) year tenn.
       2. There is no renewal limit.
       3. The tenns of this Agreement may be amended at any time by written
          agreement, signed by the Parties.
       4. The terms of this Agreement shall be subject to and, at the end of each five (5)
          year tenn, amended as necessary to comply with Utah Code Title 65A and
          Utah Administrative Code R652.
       5. This Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of all applicable laws and
          subject to the rules and regulations of the departments and agencies of the
          State of Utah presently in effect and to such laws, rules, and regulations as
          may be hereafter promulgated.

XIII. Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan.
      I. The Participating Entity shall adopt a Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan
         ("CWPP") or, subject to FFSL's approval, equivalent wildland fire
         preparedness plan.
      2. Following adoption, the Participating Entity shall update the CWPP or
         equivalent wildland fire preparedness plan at least every five (5) years initial
         adoption from initial adoption.
      3. The Participating Entity shall implement prevention, preparedness, and
         mitigation actions identified in its CWPP or equivalent wildland fire
         preparedness plan.

XIV. Wildland Urban Interface.
     I. The Participating Entity has adopted the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code,
        as defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-401.
     2. The Participating Entity shall annually report on enforcement of the wildland
        urban interface building standards adopted by the Participating Entity.
     3. If the State adopts a different version of the Code, the Participating Entity
        shall adopt within two years the same version of the Code.
     4. The Participating Entity designates the following position as responsible to
        enforce the WUI code: City code enforcement
     5. The Participating Entity shall provide to FFSL the map of the zone where the
        wildland urban interface building standards are enforced. If the Participating
        Entity makes changes to the map they shall provide to FFSL the current map
        within 90 days of adoption.
     6. The Participating Entity shall comply with all statutes, regulations, policies,
        and other requirements relating to wild land urban interface property.

                                        9
      7. If the Participating Entity chooses to perform lot assessments under the High
         Risk Wildland Urban Interface program, they must do so in accordance with
         policy established by FFSL.

XV.   Miscellaneous.
      I. This Agreement is governed by the laws, rules, and regulations of the State of
         Utah. Any action or proceeding arising from this Agreement shall be brought
         in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah. Venue shall be in Salt
         Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake County.
      2. At all times during this Agreement, the Participating Entity shall comply with
         all applicable federal and state constitutions, laws, rules, codes, orders, and
         regulations, including applicable licensure and certification requirements.
      3. The Participating Entity shall be fully liable for the actions of its agents,
         employees, officers, and partners and shall fully indemnify, defend, and hold
         hannless FFSL and the State of Utah from all claims, losses, suits, actions,
         damages, and costs of every name and description arising out of the
         Participating Entity's perfonnance of this Agreement to the extent caused by
         any intentional wrongful act or negligence of the Participating Entity, its
         agents, employees, officers, or partners, without limitation; provided,
         however, the Participating Entity shall not indemnify for that portion of any
         claim, loss, or damage arising hereunder due to the fault of FFSL. In the event
         there is a conflict between this provision and Utah Code Sections 65A-8-l O1-
         403 or other provisions of State law, State law shall govern. The Parties are
         governmental entities under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (the
         "Immunity Act"). Nothing contained herein shall be construed in any way to
         modify the limits of liability set forth in the Immunity Act or the basis for
         liability as established in the Immunity Act. Nothing contained herein shall be
         construed as a waiver by any Party of any defenses or limits of liability
         available under the Immunity Act and other applicable law. The Parties
         maintain all privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity
         Act and aJI other applicable law.
      4. The Participating Entity agrees to abide by the following federal and State
         employment laws, including: (i) Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of
         1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e), which prohibits discrimination against any employee
         or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of services on the
         basis of race, religion, color, or national origin; (ii) Executive Order No.
         11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45
         CFR 90, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; (iv) Section 504
         of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of
         1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v)
         Utah's Executive Order 2019-1, dated February 5, 2019, which prohibits
         unlawful harassment in the workplace. The Participating Entity further agrees


                                       10
    to abide by any other laws, regulations, or orders that prohibit the
    discrimination of any kind by any of the Participating Entity's employees.
5. The Participating Entity may not assign, sell , transfer, subcontract, or sublet
    rights, or delegate any right or obligation under this Agreement, in whole or in
    part, without the prior written approval of FFSL.
6. A waiver of any right, power, or privilege shall not be construed as a waiver
    of any subsequent right, power, or privilege. No waiver of any tem1 of this
    Agreement is valid unless in writing.
7. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision, tenn, or condition of this
    Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
    provision, term, or condition of this Agreement, which shall remain in full
    force and effect.
8. This Agreement may only be modified by the mutual written agreement of the
    Parties. If modified, the modification will be attached and made part of this
    Agreement.
9. This Agreement, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and
    supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous agreements and
    understandings between the parties, whether oral or written.
10. In the event of any conflict or disagreement between this Agreement and any
    applicable statute or regulation, the statute or regulation shall control.




            SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE




                                 11
UTAH DIVISION OF FORESTRY, FIRE AND STATE LANDS




FFSL Area Manager Signature                         Name               Date




State Forester/Division Director Signature          Name               Date




PARTICIPATING ENTITY




Chief Executive Signature                           Name               Date




APPROVED AS TO FORM
UTAH ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE



Connor Arrington (Jan 15, 2026 13:27:10 MST)
                                                    Connor Arrington   01/15/2026


Assistant Attorney General Signature                Name               Date




                                               12
                              COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT


         This Cooperative Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 21st day
of April            2026 (the "Effective Date"), by and between the Utah Division of Forestry,
Fire and State Lands ("FFSL") and                       Cottonwood Heights
(the "Participating Entity"). FFSL and the Participating Entity may sometimes be referred to in
this Agreement individually as a "Party" or, collectively, as the " Parties."


                                           RECITALS

   A. Pursuant to Utah Code Section 65A-8-203, this Agreement is required for a county,
      municipality, or certain other Eligible Entities and the State of Utah, by and through
      FFSL, to cooperatively discharge their joint responsibilities for protecting non-federal
      land from wildland fire.
   B. The Participating Entity is a county, municipality, or other Eligible Entity, as defined in
      Section I of this Agreement.
   C. The Participating Entity is eligible to enter into a Cooperative Agreement under Utah
      Administrative Code R652-121 and R651-122.
   D. FFSL provided to the Participating Entity, and the Participating Entity signed and
      returned to FFSL, the Annual Participation Commitment Statement before the Effective
      Date of this Agreement.
   E. The fire department or equivalent fire service provider under contract with, or delegated
      by, the Participating Entity on unincorporated land meets minimum standards for
      wildland fire training, certification, and suppression equipment based upon nationally
      accepted standards, detennined by FFSL.
                                         AGREEMENT

       I. Definitions
       For the purposes of this Agreement:

           I. "Annual Participation Commitment Report" means a report prepared by the
              Participating Entity, detailing the expenditures and activities conducted in
              compliance with the Participation Commitment during the past calendar year.
           2. "Annual Participation Commitment Statement" means a statement, signed by both
              FFSL and the Participating Entity, detailing both the monetary value of the
              Participation Commitment for the upcoming calendar year and the detailed
              activities the Participating Entity plans to perform to fulfill their Participation
              Commitment for that year.
           3. "Catastrophic Wildfire" means wildland fires whose size and intensity cause
              significant impacts to State and local economies, critical infrastructure, the
              environment, and private landowners.

                                                1
    4. "Cooperative Agreement" means the same as the term is defined in Utah
          Administrative Code R652-l-200.
    5. "Delegation of Fire Management Authority" means the acceptance by FFSL of
          responsibility for:
               i. Managing a wildfire; and
              ii. The cost of fire suppression, as described in Utah Code Section 65A-8-
                  203.
    6. "Direct Expenditure" means funds spent by a Participating Entity to implement
          wildland fire prevention, preparedness, or mitigation efforts both agreed to
          between the Parties and approved by FFSL.
    7. "Direct Payment" means an alternative method of meeting all, or part, of the
         participation commitment by paying FFSL directly, as identified in Utah Code
         Section 65A-8-203.
    8. "Director" means the division director of FFSL.
    9. "Eligible Entity" means the same as the tenn is defined in Utah Code Section
         65A-8-203.
    I 0. "Extended Attack" means actions taken in response to wildland fire after Initial
         Attack.
    11. "Firefighter" means an individual trained in wildland firefighting techniques and
         assigned to a position of hazardous duty.
    12. "Initial Attack" means actions taken by the first resources to arrive at any
         wildland fire incident, including- without limitation-size-up, patrolling,
         monitoring, holding action, or aggressive suppression action.
    13. "In-Kind Activity" means an activity for wildland fire prevention, preparedness,
         or mitigation efforts both agreed to between the Parties and approved by FFSL.
         The value of an In-Kind Activity shall be determined by using the rate calculated
         by the Independent Sector, https://www.independentsector.org/.
    14. "Minimum Billing Threshold" means the dollar value of expenses not charged to
         the Participating Entity but incurred by FFSL, on behalf of the Participating
         Entity, on Initial Attack prior to Delegation of Fire Management Authority.
    15. "Participation Commitment" means prevention, preparedness, and mitigation
         actions and expenditures, including those identified in an FFSL-approved CWPP
         or equivalent wildland fire preparedness plan, undertaken by a Participating
         Entity to reduce the risk of wildland fire and meet the intent of Utah Code
         Sections 65A-8-202 and 65A-8-202.5.
    16. "Participating Entity" means an Eligible Entity with a valid Cooperative
         Agreement.


II. Term.
       I. The term of this Agreement shall be five (5) years from the Effective Date.

Ill. Participation Commitment.

                                         2
I. Annual Statement.
         a. FFSL shall send the Participating Entity an Annual Participation
            Commitment Statement at least three (3) months in advance of the
            end of each calendar year during the tenn of this Agreement.
         b. Upon receipt of an Annual Participation Commitment Statement, the
            Participating Entity shall complete the annual plan portion of the
            Annual Participation Commitment Statement outlining the actions it
            intends to take that address the wildfire threat. Within sixty (60) days
            of receipt of an Annual Participation Commitment Statement, the
            Participating Entity shall send the completed annual plan to FFSL
            for review and approval.
         c. Upon receipt of the Participating Entity' s annual plan, FFSL shall
            review the annual plan. FFSL may request additional infonnation
            before approving the annual plan. Upon FFSL' s approval of the
            annual plan, FFSL shall sign and send the Annual Participation
            Commitment Statement to the Participating Entity for signature.
         d. Upon receipt of the signed Annual Participation Commitment from
            FFSL, the Participating Entity' s chief executive shall sign and return
            the fully executed Annual Participation Commitment Statement to
            FFSL by the deadline provided. In the event the Participating Entity
            fails to sign and return the Annual Participation Commitment
            Statement by the deadline provided, this Agreement will tenninate at
            the conclusion of the last calendar year in which the Participating
            Entity complied with this requirement.
2. Fulfillment.
         a. The Participating Entity shall meet its Participation Commitment, as
            determined by FFSL, pursuant to Utah Administrative Code R652-
            l 22.
         b. The Participating Entity shall meet its Participation Commitment
            through direct expenditures, direct payment, in-kind activities, or any
            combination of the three that are mutually agreed upon by the
            Parties.
3. Consultation.
         a. The Participating Entity may consult with FFSL to identify valid
            Participation Commitment actions and activities, based on the
            Participating Entity's FFSL-approved CWPP or equivalent wildfire
            preparedness plan.
4. Accounting.
         a. The Participating Entity shall account for its respective Participation
            Commitment activities and expenditures through the Utah Wildfire
            Assessment Risk Portal ("UWRAP").




                                 3
        b. Beginning January I , 2025, all qualifying Participation Commitment
             expenditures and activities count toward the Participating Entity's
             first full-year Participation Commitment.
        c. The value of Participation Commitment expenditures and activities
             may, with approval ofFFSL, carry-over to the next calendar year.
        d. With the Director's approval, or approval of a designee, the value of
             capital improvement actions may carry-over for up to five (5) years
             and the value of non-capital improvement actions may carry-over for
             up to three (3) years.
        e. The Participating Entity must receive written approval from the
             Director, or designee, before pursuing carry-over for a specific
             action or activity under this Section III(4).
        f. Amounts reported annually in excess of Participation Commitment
             do not carry-over without written approval from the Director, or
             designee, under this Section 1Il(4).
5. Reporting.
        a. The Participating Entity shall record and account for its Participation
             Commitment actions and expenditures in UWRAP.
        b. The Participating Entity shall provide an annual accounting of its
             activities and expenditures to FFSL for review and approval in the
            manner and fonn specified by FFSL.
        c. The Participating Entity shall account for, track, and report any year-
            to-year carry-over under Section III(4) of this Agreement in
            UWRAP.
        d. FFSL may review and verify records related to the Participating
            Entity's Participation Commitment at any time.
        e. FFSL may reject records related to the Participating Entity' s
            Participation Commitment deemed by FFSL to be unverifiable,
            incorrect, or not approved in the Participating Entity's signed
            Participation Commitment Statement.
6. Calculation.
        a. FFSL shall calculate the Participation Commitment based on a
            wildfire risk assessment by acres (the "Risk Assessment"),
            conducted by FFSL, and the historic fire cost average ("Fire Cost
            Average") in the Participating Entity's jurisdiction, pursuant to Utah
            Administrative Code R652- l 22.
        b. The Risk Assessment calculation shall be adjusted for inflation using
            the Consumer Price Index.
        c. FFSL shall calculate the Fire Cost Average based on historic
            suppression costs accrued within the Participating Entity's
            jurisdiction. The Fire Cost Average shall only include wildland fire
            suppression costs accrued and paid by FFSL on behalf of a
            Participating Entity within the Participating Entity's jurisdiction. The

                                 4
                   Fire Cost Average may include State-paid costs after Delegation of
                   Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility
                   has occurred within the Participating Entity's jurisdiction.
              d. The Fire Cost Average shall be calculated on a rolling, ten-year
                   average, dropping the highest and lowest cost years and adjusting for
                   inflation using the Consumer Price Index. Each ten-year average
                   shall contain eight data points.
       7. Appeals.
              a. Where permitted by Utah Administrative Code R652-122 and within
                   ninety (90) days of the occurrence, the Participating Entity may
                   appeal a decision regarding its Participation Commitment by
                   submitting to the Director a written appeal that states the reasons for
                   the appeal.

IV. Initial Attack.
        1. The Participating Entity shall have primary responsibility for Initial Attack
            ("IA") on all nonfederal lands within the response area of the Paiticipating
            Entity or within the response area of any delegee of the Participating Entity.
        2. IA may include different resources based on fire danger, fuel type, values to
            be protected, and other factors.
        3. Pursuant to Utah Code Sections 65A-8-202-202.5 and in accordance with this
            Agreement, FFSL shall determine reasonable and effective wildfire IA by
            verifying that the Participating Entity has adequate resources and equipment
            to manage IA.
        4. The Participating Entity shall have financial responsibility for all IA costs
            within its jurisdiction, other than aviation costs.
        5. FFSL shall have financial responsibility for all IA aviation costs.

V. Delegation of Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility.
      I . Delegation of Fire Management Authority and the transfer of fiscal
          responsibility to FFSL for a wildland fire shall occur simultaneously with one
          of the following events:
                a. The involvement of state-owned or federally-owned lands in the
                    wildland fire;
                b. The order, beyond pre-planned dispatch, of firefighting resources
                    through an Interagency Fire Center;
                c. The request of the Participating Entity with jurisdiction through its
                    local fire official on scene with authority to do so; or
                d. The decision of the Director, after consultation with local authorities.
      2. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority to FFSL, FFSL, or its
          designee, shall be the primary incident commander in a unified command
          environment with the agency having jurisdiction.


                                         5
       3. Deployment of aviation assets on pre-planned dispatch, as established by the
          State, does not cause an automatic Delegation of Fire Management Authority.

VI. Extended Attack.
       I. Immediately upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, the incident
          commander shall record a timestamp via radio with the Interagency Fire
          Center servicing the incident.
       2. The Crew Time Report ("CTR") or Shift Ticket of all resources not covered
          by a no-cost local agreement, such as an automatic aid system or other inter-
          local agreement, shall also reflect the timestamp recorded in Section Vl(l).
       3. Immediately upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, a new CTR or
          Shift Ticket shall be started for all resources to be used in the Extended
          Attack.
       4. All incident commanders named on the incident organizer shall sign
          delegation documentation. Resource needs shall be reevaluated in the
          transition from IA to Extended Attack.
       5. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, and if the Participating
          Entity is compliant with relevant statutes, regulations, and the tenns of this
          Agreement, FFSL shall be financially responsible for wildland fire
          suppression costs incurred beyond IA.

VII.   Wildland Fire Response Training and Certification.
       1. The Participating Entity shall ensure Firefighters providing IA within the
          Participating Entity's jurisdiction are trained in NWCG S 130 Firefighter
          Training and S 190 Introduction to Wild land Fire Behavior.
       2. The Participating Entity shall ensure firefighters providing IA within the
          Participating Entity's jurisdiction have completed RT130 Annual Fireline
          Safety Refresher Training prior to each statutory "closed fire season," as
          defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-2 l l.
       3. Upon Delegation of Fire Management Authority, FFSL may release from IA,
          or reassign to other firefighting duties, any Firefighter not certified as a
          NWCG Wildland Firefighter II.

vm. Wildland Fire Response Equipment Standards.
   I. The Participating Entity shall ensure engines, water tenders, hand tools, and water
      handling equipment used for response to wildland fire on nonfederal land within
      the Participating Entity's jurisdiction meet the National Wildfire Coordinating
      Group standards and, if applicable, the FFSL Fire Department Manual standards.

IX. Wildland Fire Cost Recovery Actions.
       1. Pursuant to Utah Code Title 65A and Utah Administrative Code R652, and
          when an investigation reasonably shows a person or persons started a wildfire
          by acting in a negligent, reckless, or intentional manner, the Participating

                                        6
          Entity shall initiate a civil action to recover all wildland fire costs incurred for
          a particular wildland fire ("Cost Recovery Action"), except for when
          Delegation of Fire Management Authority has occurred. FFSL may assist the
          Participating Entity in a Cost Recovery Action under this Section IX(l).
       2. The Participating Entity shall notify FFSL once it has initiated a Cost
          Recovery Action.
       3. If the Participating Entity recovers from a Cost Recovery Action, the
          Participating Entity shall provide to FFSL documentation verifying wildland
          fire costs by the Participating Entity and the legal costs incurred for the Cost
          Recovery Action.
       4. The Participating Entity may retain costs recovered up to and not exceeding
          its incurred wildland fire costs-including legal fees in pursuing the Cost
          Recovery Action. All other recovered costs shall be tendered to FFSL for
          distribution amongst other entities with incurred suppression costs.
       5. The value of costs incurred and recovered by the Participating Entity may
          reduce the Participating Entity's Historic Fire Cost Average and Participation
          Commitment.
       6. FFSL may initiate a Cost Recovery Action at any time, including when
          Delegation of Fire Management Authority has occurred and upon notice by
          the Participating Entity under Section IX(4).

X. Probation Status.
      1. At the end of each calendar year, FFSL shall review the Participating Entity's
         compliance with the tenns of this Agreement.
      2. If the Participating Entity is out of compliance, FFSL shall place the
         Participating Entity on "Probation Status" and provide the Participating Entity
         with a "Probation Notice" including:
                a. Notice of the Probation Status;
                b. The reason for the Probation Status;
                c. The action(s) the Participating Entity must take to remedy the
                     Probation Status; and
                d. The time frame within which the Probation Status may be remedied.
      3. If the reason for the Probation Status is the Participating Entity's failure to
         fulfill its Participation Commitment for the previous calendar year:
                a. The Participating Entity shall fulfill its Participation Commitment
                     for the previous year and its Participation Commitment for the
                     current calendar year within the Probation Notice time frame;
                b. FFSL shall credit the Participating Entity's Participation
                     Commitment expenditures and actions toward the Participating
                     Entity's outstanding obligation before it may credit the expenditures
                     and actions toward the current obligation;
                c. FFSL may, based on evidence of a good faith effort to comply with
                     Section X(3)(a) and at the sole discretion of FFSL, extend the

                                          7
                      Probation Notice time frame if the underlying noncompliance is not
                      timely remedied; and
                 d. FFSL shall lift the Probation Status if the underlying noncompliance
                      is remedied within the Probation Notice time frame.
       4. If the reason for the Probation Status is the Participating Entity's
          noncompliance with one or more tenns of this Agreement, apart from a failure
          to fulfill its Participation Commitment:
                a. The Participating Entity shall remedy the underlying noncompliance
                      that led to the Probation Status within the Probation Notice time
                      frame;
                 b. FFSL shall lift the Probation Status if the underlying noncompliance
                      is remedied within the Probation Notice time frame; and
                c. FFSL may, pursuant to Section XI, revoke this Agreement if the
                      underlying noncompliance is not remedied within the Probation
                     Notice time frame.
       5. For the duration of the Probation Status, this Agreement remains valid.

XI. Revocation.
       1. FFSL may revoke this Agreement by providing written notice to the
           Participating Entity no later than forty-five (45) days from the start or end of
           the statutory fire season, as defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-2 l l.
       2. If the Participating Entity signed and returned the Annual Participation
           Commitment Statement to FFSL, a revocation by FFSL shall be effective in
           the calendar year following the year the Annual Participation Commitment
           Statement was signed and returned.
       3. The Participating Entity may revoke this Agreement by:
                 a. Providing written notice to FFSL of its intent to revoke this
                     Agreement; or
                 b. By failing to sign and return the Annual Participation Commitment
                     Statement to FFSL, unless a written extension for return has been
                     granted by FFSL.
       4. Any revocation of this Agreement is considered a tennination of the
          Agreement.
       5. If either FFSL or the Participating Entity revokes this Agreement, the
          Participating Entity may only enter into a new CWS cooperative agreement
          with FFSL if the Participating Entity meets the requirements under Utah
          Administrative Code R652-l 2 I and the Participating Entity pays FFSL all
          outstanding wildland fire suppression costs in full.
       6. If FFSL revokes this Agreement after the Participating Entity was placed on
          Probation Status, the Participating Entity shall be responsible for all costs of
          wildland fire suppression incurred by FFSL within the Participating Entity's
          jurisdiction from the date of the Probation Notice to the revocation of this
          Agreement.

                                         8
       7. A revocation of this Agreement by FFSL may be infonnally appealed to the
          Director within thirty (30) days of the notice of revocation being provided.

XII.   Renewal, Amendment, and Compliance with Applicable Laws.
       I. If neither FFSL nor the Participating Entity revoke this Agreement under
          Section XI, this Agreement may renew for a consecutive five (5) year tem1.
       2. There is no renewal limit.
       3. The tenns of this Agreement may be amended at any time by written
          agreement, signed by the Parties.
       4. The tenns of this Agreement shall be subject to and, at the end of each five (5)
          year tenn, amended as necessary to comply with Utah Code Title 65A and
          Utah Administrative Code R652.
       5. This Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of all applicable laws and
          subject to the mies and regulations of the departments and agencies of the
          State of Utah presently in effect and to such laws, rules, and regulations as
          may be hereafter promulgated.

XIII. Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan.
      1. The Participating Entity shall adopt a Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan
         ("CWPP") or, subject to FFSL's approval, equivalent wildland fire
         preparedness plan.
      2. Following adoption, the Participating Entity shall update the CWPP or
         equivalent wildland fire preparedness plan at least every five (5) years initial
         adoption from initial adoption.
      3. The Participating Entity shall implement prevention, preparedness, and
         mitigation actions identified in its CWPP or equivalent wildland fire
         preparedness plan.

XIV. Wildland Urban Interface.
     I. The Participating Entity has adopted the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code,
        as defined in Utah Code Section 65A-8-401.
     2. The Participating Entity shall annually report on enforcement of the wildland
        urban interface building standards adopted by the Participating Entity.
     3. If the State adopts a different version of the Code, the Participating Entity
        shall adopt within two years the same version of the Code.
     4. The Participating Entity designates the following position as responsible to
        enforce the WUI code: City code enforcement
     5. The Participating Entity shall provide to FFSL the map of the zone where the
        wildland urban interface building standards are enforced. If the Participating
        Entity makes changes to the map they shall provide to FFSL the current map
        within 90 days of adoption.
     6. The Participating Entity shall comply with alJ statutes, regulations, policies,
        and other requirements relating to wild land urban interface property.

                                        9
      7. If the Participating Entity chooses to perform lot assessments under the High
         Risk Wildland Urban Interface program, they must do so in accordance with
         policy established by FFSL.

XV.   Miscellaneous.
      I. This Agreement is governed by the laws, rules, and regulations of the State of
         Utah. Any action or proceeding arising from this Agreement shall be brought
         in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah. Venue shall be in Salt
         Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake County.
      2. At all times during this Agreement, the Participating Entity shall comply with
         all applicable federal and state constitutions, laws, rules, codes, orders, and
         regulations, including applicable licensure and certification requirements.
      3. The Participating Entity shall be fully liable for the actions of its agents,
         employees, officers, and paitners and shall fully indemnify, defend, and hold
         hannless FFSL and the State of Utah from all claims, losses, suits, actions,
         damages, and costs of every name and description arising out of the
         Participating Entity's perfonnance of this Agreement to the extent caused by
         any intentional wrongful act or negligence of the Participating Entity, its
         agents, employees, officers, or partners, without limitation; provided,
         however, the Participating Entity shall not indemnify for that portion of any
         claim, loss, or damage arising hereunder due to the fault of FFSL. In the event
         there is a conflict between this provision and Utah Code Sections 65A-8-l 0 1-
         403 or other provisions of State law, State law shall govern. The Parties are
         governmental entities under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (the
         "Immunity Act"). Nothing contained herein shall be construed in any way to
         modify the limits of liability set forth in the Immunity Act or the basis for
         liability as established in the Immunity Act. Nothing contained herein shall be
         construed as a waiver by any Party of any defenses or limits of liability
         available under the Immunity Act and other applicable law. The Parties
         maintain all privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity
         Act and all other applicable law.
      4. The Participating Entity agrees to abide by the following federal and State
         employment laws, including: (i) Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of
         1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e), which prohibits discrimination against any employee
         or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of services on the
         basis of race, religion, color, or national origin; (ii) Executive Order No.
         11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45
         CFR 90, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; (iv) Section 504
         of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of
         1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v)
         Utah's Executive Order 2019-1 , dated February 5, 2019, which prohibits
         unlawful harassment in the workplace. The Participating Entity further agrees


                                       10
UTAH DIVISION OF FORESTRY, FIRE AND STATE LANDS




FFSL Area Manager Signature                         Name               Date




State Forester/Division Director Signature          Name               Date




PARTICIPATING ENTITY




Chief Executive Signature                           Name               Date




APPROVED AS TO FORM
UTAH ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE


Connor Arrington (Jan 15, 2026 13:27:10 MST)
                                                    Connor Arrington   01/15/2026


Assistant Attorney General Signature                Name               Date




                                               12
                                   Cooperative Wildfire System
                        2026 Participation Commitment Calculation
                 for Participating Entity: Cottonwood Heights
                            TOTAL PARTICIPATION COMMITMENT:                                $1,530
               Participation Commitment is calculated by adding the Risk Assessment by Acres to the
                      Historic Fire Cost Average in each jurisdiction, per R652122300 (2017).

                                          WILDFIRE RISK ASSESSMENT
                      Medium Risk         Acres         High Risk            Acres                    Cost
       Municipal         $2.62                  334        $4.58                     143                     $1,530
          County         $0.39                             $0.52                                                 $0
                                                                                TOTAL:                       $1,530
                                      HISTORIC FIRE COST AVERAGE
                                    Nominal Fire                                               Real Fire
      Year                        Suppression Costs                     Inflation Rate     Suppression Costs
      2015                                 $0                                 1.36                              $0
      2016                                 $0                                 1.34                              $0
      2017                                 $0                                 1.31                              $0
      2018                                 $0                                 1.28                              $0
      2019                                 $0                                 1.26                              $0
      2020                                 $0                                 1.23                              $0
      2021                                 $0                                 1.21                              $0
      2022                                 $0                                 1.13                              $0
      2023                                 $0                                 1.06                              $0
      2024                                 $0                                 1.03                              $0
                                 AVERAGE (removing the high year and low year):                                  $0

                                                                   PC CALCULATION
                                                             Wildfire Risk Assessment                        $1,530
                                                         (+) Historic Fire Cost Average                         $0
                                                        (=) Participation Commitment                         $1,530
                                                         (+) Previous Year(s) Unmet PC

Instructions: shaded areas must be adjusted annually by FFSL Finance. Do not edit unshaded cells.
"Cap Reduction" must be approved by FFSL Director.

                                                           Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands
                                                                                     1594 West North Temple
                                                                                                P.O. Box 145703
                                                                                       Salt Lake City, UT 84114
           FORESTRY
                                                              Holladay




Cottonwood Heights Cooperative
Wildfire System Participation
Commitment Map
                                                      Participation Commitment Risk:     D      Boundary of Municipality       /\

Wildfire Risk Assessment - Incorporated Areas:        (private lands shown in vibrant    D     Other Municipal               W
                                                      colors)                                  Boundaries                      N
                Medium Risk High Risk   Total
                                                            Negligible                   [ _J Private Land (vibrantilTAH
Acres              334          143     (for Risk
                                                      -     Low                               colors)               DNR
Cost per Acre     $2.62       $4.58     Assessment)                                                                    ~
                                                            Medium
Cost            $875.08     $654.94     $1,530.02                                     Produced for September 2025
                                                      -     High     Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands   ·t~:;:·.::~~:
                                                                              2026 Historic Fire Report
                       Totals fr om Columns
                2015                    $0 column C          taken from prev/ou5 PC Statement
                2016                 SO.DO column 0
                2017                 $0.00 column E
                2018                 SO.OD column F
                2019                 $0.00 column G
                2020                 SO.OD column H
                2021                 SO.OD column I
                2022                 SO.OD column J
                2023                 $0.00 cotumn K
                2024                 $0.00 column L


jJaddHf Nam,-          laddHtNambu                    2015            :!016          2017          2019   ?020   2021   2022   2013   20241
                                                                    Cooperative Wildfire System
                                         2026 Participation Commitment Statement
             Participating Entity:       Cottonwood Heights                   PC Amount:$ 1,530

                                     Proposed Action:                                                CWPP Goal:                        Category:                      Value:
                                                            -
                                                                                                      .                           j        Mitigation              The dollar
                  Be specific in describing the expected accomplishment
                                                            -
                                                                                            ~=:~:,;s,::na::~ =~~~: I :,;;.~:~;;,                                 amount applied
                                                                                                                                                                    this year

         1)                          See Attachment                                                                                   Mitigation $ 7,388
                                                                                        i
         2)                                                                                                                       IPrevention $ 1,260
              -               -- -                              -                                                     -
         3)                                                                                                                           Preparedness               $1,690
                                       --      -                                                                                  -
        4)
                                                                       -                         -                              ---
                                                                                                                                           Total                 $10,338
         5)


        6)
                                ---                                                 -                                                            ----t---
                                                                                                                                 l-                              -
        7)
                                                                                    I
                          -    --        -                                          ►                                     --     t---                                  -- -
        8)
                                                                                                                                                             I
-   -   ~                                          --                 ---                                                 - -----+     -                                   -
                                                                                                                                                             I
        9)                                                                                                                       I
        10)


        11)
                                         --    -        -




                                                                       _J
                                                                               -                                      -



                                                                                                                          -   t
                      -                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                         -
        12)                                                                                                                                                  I

                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                    -                                                     -                                                  I

        13)
                                                                                                                                                             I
              -                                                                                                                  ~          -                1---              --
                                                                                                                                                             I
        14)
                  -                                                        -       -+        -                    -
                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                 ►



        15)
                                                                                    I


        ij
                                                                                                                              Ut ah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands
                                                                                                                                                        1594 West North Temple
                                                                                                                                                                     P.O. Box 14S703
                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, UT 84114
                          Why are these actions the most impactful way to reduce wildfire risk for this PE?
               Consider the highest wildfire risk areas within the boundary and the values to protect from the threat of wildfire.

 The selected actions focus on reducing wildfire risk in the highest hazard areas within Cottonwood Heights, particularly
 along the Wasatch foothills and canyon interface areas, and the bench communities adjacent to open space and
 wildland fuels. These areas contain steep terrain, dense vegetation, and residential neighborhoods located directly
 within the Wildland Urban Interface. The identified mitigation, preparedness, and community engagement actions
 prioritize reducing hazardous fuels, improving defensible space, and strengthening wildfire response capability. These
 efforts improve community resilience and support the protection of homes, critical infrastructure, and watershed
 resources most vulnerable to wildfire within Cottonwood Heights.



                                     Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands



 Area Manager Signature

 Justin Roach
 Print Name                                                        Date




 CWS Manager Signature

 Joseph Anderson
 Print Name                                                        Date




                                                    Participating Entity



 Chief Executive Signature                                         Title



 Print Name                                                        Date




 By signing this document, the Parlicipating Entity and FFSL agree that these proposed actions adhere to the intent of
 CWS to reduce the impact of catastrophic wildfire to local communities.




                                                                                                        Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands




~ill
   fO AlSTAY
                                                                                                                             1594 W est No rt h Temple
                                                                                                                                       P.O. Box 145703
                                                                                                                               Salt Lake City, UT 84114
Cottonwood Heights 2026 PC amount $10,338


Mitigation
Project action or acquisition                                                                                                 CWPP Goal Category         Estimated Value
Cottonwood Heights Residents Mitigation Work Volunteer Hours, $34.79 an hour, 10 hours                                        GoalC.1 D   Mitigation     $            348
UFA Fuels Crew Mitigation Work Chipper Days, 200 hours, mileage, saws, and chippers                                           GoalC.1     Mitigation     $          7,040
                                                                                                                                          Total          $          7,388
Preparedness
Project, action or acquisition                                                                                                CWPP Goal Category         Estimated Value
UFA Operations Additional Wild land Training (above required FFT2) Station 110 and 116, 7 Personnel, 4 Hours each, 28 Hours   GoalB.4     Preparedness   $          1,260
                                                                                                                                          Total          $          1,260
Prevention
Project action or acquisition                                                                                                 cwee Goal category         Estimated Value
Patrols to help control firework restrictions July 4th UFA Fire Inspectors (2) 7PM-12:00AM, $65 hrly rate                     A.1       Prevention       $            650
Patrols to help control firework restrictions July 24th UFA Fire Inspectors (2) 7PM-12:00AM, $65 hrly rate                    A.l         Prevention     $            650
Restriction map build 1 hour and signs for restricted areas-fireworks season, $SO hrly rate, $100 in supplies                 B.2         Prevention     $            150
Fireworks Video Campaign-Community Outreach (10% of actual cost)                                                              B.2         Prevention     $            150
Public safety messages on fireworks and wildfires-UFA Community Outreach CWH Council Mtg 2 hrs                                B.2         Prevention     $             90
                                                                                                                                          Total          $          1,690


                                                                                                                                          Grand Total    $         10,338
