Assembly Hall renovation (continued)                                        Old Mill renovation (continued)

muses Brother McCrea. “…we had huge wooden trusses up there                 Engineering requirements for the Old Mill renovation did not address:
that had some structural problems…”                                                Assessment and repair of foundation stonework
                                                                                   Remediation of structural problems relating to the lack of diaphragm
‘Under his supervision, construction crews installed steel support                 Load assessment
columns reaching from underground footings to within inches of the                  Lateral bracing of unreinforced masonry
ceiling. Holes were cut in the ceiling; beams and jacks were then
positioned to transfer the load from the trusses to the columns. The roof
trusses were shored up and reinforced with steel, then the supporting
steel columns were removed. Also installed, were a new concrete girth
beam around the building and a plywood diaphragm over the top of the
ceiling.

‘And now, it seems, the Assembly Hall on Temple Square is more              If the Old Mill continues its second century, major structural
than ready to begin its second century.’                                    issues should be addressed.


--The Assembly Hall benefits from regular use.                              --The Old Mill has not benefited from regular use.
--The Assembly Hall is used by the public without charge.                   --The Old Mill is a rental venue, and while never much sought after, it
--Payment of the Assembly Hall’s maintenance and security costs are                was rented at every possible opportunity.
       not dependent on revenue.                                            --The Old Mill maintenance and security costs are dependent on rental
                                                                                   revenue.
Walker Development inquired through the Construction Department             The cost of the renovation of the Old Mill will be provided to Cottonwood
of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints for the Assembly         Heights upon request.
Hall renovation costs. We received no reply.




                                                                                                                                                          10
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
May 6, 2026
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, May 6,
2026, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. –Council workroom
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose.

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Project CUP-25-005
               The Planning Commission will review a request from Doug Shelby for a Conditional Use Permit for
               the demolition of a historic structure (Cottonwood Paper Mill) at 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon
               Road

               3.2 Project ZTA-26-001
               The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing to review a zoning text amendment request
               initiated by Nash Williams. The request is to amend City Code Chapters 19.75 and 19.76 to allow
               second utility meters for accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and guesthouses under specific
               conditions.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of April 1, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: June 3, 2026.
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MDT on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, April 30, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 30th DAY OF APRIL 2026, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT (WORK SESSION)
May 6, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-005

Subject Property:
6851 S. Big Cottonwood
Canyon Rd

Action Requested:
Review and discussion




                         Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Doug Shelby; WDOM
Properties LLC

Acreage:
0.86 acres




                               Google Street View
                                                         Planning Commission Work Session– April 1, 2026
                                                  Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd


Summary / Background
Staff have prepared this report to assist the Planning Commission in its ongoing review of the
request submitted by Doug Shelby to demolish the Old Mill, a local and federally designated
historic structure. Pursuant to Section 19.86.040 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code,
applications involving designated historic sites must pend before the Planning Commission for a
minimum period of one year prior to a final decision.
This report is intended to provide the Commission with additional information and materials
submitted by the applicant and to support continued development of the record during the
required pendency period.
The applicant has also amended the previously proposed document submittal schedule to extend
the review timeline by two additional months. As part of this revision, materials originally
anticipated for the May 2026 work session have been deferred to the June 2026 work session, with
additional materials scheduled for July 2026.
Prior Applicant Submittals (April 1, 2026, Work Session)
For the April 1, 2026, work session, the applicant submitted materials intended to provide additional
context regarding preservation efforts and historical considerations associated with the Old Mill
structure. These materials included:
    •   Donation History and Art Center Proposal
The submittal was provided to assist the Planning Commission in understanding prior preservation-
related discussions and funding efforts associated with the property. Commissioners are encouraged to
review these materials and prepare any questions or clarification items for discussion during current and
future work sessions.

Upcoming Work Session Submittals (Amended Schedule)

The applicant has indicated that additional information will be presented at future Planning Commission
work sessions in accordance with the amended schedule:

    •   March 2026 Work Session – Flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law and
        code, and Salt Lake County Inspection Report (1996)
    •   April 2026 Work Session – Donations and contributions related to preservation
    •   May 2026 Work Session – Proposals for Use, Research on Preservation of Historic Buildings, and
        a Seismic Detail Summary
    •   June 2026 Work Session – Maintenance, rebuilding, and renovation considerations
    •   July 2026 Work Session – Old Mill business review




                                                                                              Page 2 of 4
                                                       Planning Commission Work Session– April 1, 2026
                                                Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd


Current Applicant Submittals
Proposals for Use, Research on Preservation of Historic Buildings, and a Seismic Detail
Summary
Consistent with the amended materials submittal schedule, the applicant has submitted
additional documentation intended to provide further context regarding the structural condition of
the Old Mill, the feasibility of preservation, and potential reuse of the structure.

Proposals for Use

The applicant provided a summary of past proposals for reuse of the Old Mill spanning several
decades. These materials indicate:

   •   Numerous concepts have been considered, including recreational uses, restaurants, retail,
       event space, and lodging.
   •   Many proposals were not pursued due to constraints such as building size, lack of
       supporting infrastructure, market feasibility, or structural limitations.
   •   Historical efforts to repurpose the structure have not resulted in sustained or viable long-
       term use

Preservation Research

The applicant submitted research materials summarizing academic and technical studies related
to historic building preservation. These materials:

   •   Identify various strategies for restoring historic structures, including energy efficiency
       upgrades, structural stabilization, and environmental controls.
   •   Indicate that preservation of historic masonry structures presents technical challenges
       related to moisture, insulation, and long-term durability.

Structural and Seismic Information

The applicant provided a seismic summary and supporting materials referencing prior engineering
reports. These materials indicate:

   •   The Old Mill is located near the Wasatch Fault and is subject to seismic hazards, including
       potential surface fault rupture, strong ground shaking, and liquefaction risks.
   •   Existing structural systems, including unreinforced masonry walls and floor/roof
       diaphragms, lack modern seismic resistance and would require significant upgrades to
       meet current building standards.
   •   Various levels of structural intervention are outlined, including seismic retrofit,
       remediation, and full rehabilitation, with only full rehabilitation resulting in a habitable
       structure.

Historical Construction and Reconstruction Context

The applicant submitted a comparison between the Deseret Paper Mill and similar historic stone
structures, including the Assembly Hall on Temple Square. The materials highlight:



                                                                                           Page 3 of 4
                                                          Planning Commission Work Session– April 1, 2026
                                                   Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd

   •    The Old Mill was constructed using irregular granite stone with mortar, resulting in
        variability in material quality and structural integrity.
   •    Portions of the structure historically utilized higher-quality stone, while other areas reflect
        lower-quality materials and workmanship.
   •    The structure has undergone past reconstruction efforts, including a rebuild in 1927
        following fire damage.

Prior Restoration Documentation

The applicant provided historical contract documents from a 1976 restoration effort. These
materials include:

   •    Bid documents, construction specifications, and general conditions for restoration work.
   •    Evidence that prior rehabilitation efforts were formally planned and structured using
        standard construction contracting processes.

These materials are provided for Planning Commission review as part of the City’s due diligence
process. Commissioners are encouraged to review the submitted documents in advance and
prepare any questions they may wish to direct to the applicant or staff during the upcoming June
2026 work session.




Upcoming Work Session Submittals
The applicant has indicated that additional information will be presented at future Planning
Commission work sessions in accordance with the previously proposed schedule:
   •    March 2026 Work Session - Flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law
        and code, and SL County Inspection Report (1996)
   •    April 2026 Work Session - Donations and contributions related to preservation
   •    May 2026 Work Session - Proposals for Use, Research on Preservation of Historic
        Buildings, and a Seismic Detail Summary
   •    June 2026 Work Session - Maintenance, rebuilding, and renovation considerations
   •    July 2026 Work Session - Old Mill business review


Attachments
   A.   Deseret Paper Mill (Old Mill) & Assembly Hall Comparison
   B.   Contract Documents for Old Mill Restoration
   C.   Proposals for Use
   D.   Research on Preservation
   E.   Seismic Detail Summary
   F.   Engineering processes, seismic retrofit, remediation, and rehabilitation




                                                                                              Page 4 of 4
                              Attachment - A
Desert Paper Mill (Old Mill) & Assembly Hall Comparison
                                                                 DESERET PAPER MILL-ASSEMBLY HALL COMPARISON – 10 PAGES




Submission to Cottonwood Heights
April 17, 2026
Old Mill, public
Deseret Paper Mill – Assembly Hall Comparison
Walker Development

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

CONTENTS IN THIS DOCUMENT
1-Granite (quartz monzonite) buildings with common stone
2-Assembly Hall – Deseret Paper Mill original build comparison
3-Deseret Paper Mill stonework
        A-Window casements
        B-Unreinforced masonry walls (URM)
        C-Wall base layers
4-Deseret Paper Mill reconstruction
5-Assembly Hall – Old Mill renovation comparison

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________




                                                                                                                                 1
1- GRANITE (QUARTZ MONZONITE) BUILDINGS WITH COMMON STONE
      Buildings built from granite (quartz monzonite) quarried at the mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon include: The Assembly Hall on Temple Square,
      the Deseret Paper Mill, the Salt Lake Temple, the LDS Administration Building and the Utah State Capitol.

2- ASSEMBLY HALL – DESERET PAPER MILL ORIGINAL BUILD COMPARISON




Assembly Hall 1889      Charles R. Savage Collection, BYU                    Deseret Paper Mill (before 1893) BYU Perry Special Collection

DEDICATED 1882                                                               FINISHED 1883
GRANITE, TEMPLE REMNANTS                                                     GRANITE, QUARRY REMNANTS
FOOTPRINT: 68 X 120                                                          FOOTPRINT: 63 X 130
8160 S.F.                                                                    8190 S.F.
1 LEVEL, BALCONY                                                             2 OR 3 STORIES, VARIED

Church news article April 28, 2021                                           Utah Historical Markers, Cottonwood Paper Mill
“They took these irregular shaped pieces that weren’t of the right size or   “made of granite from nearby quarries with mortar of clay and stone grindings”
shape to be used on the temple and built the Assembly Hall out of them,”




                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                              Carl R. Eriksson Inspection Report, 1996
“Expert stonemasons were called in to bring these irregular pieces of stone   “The rock around and over window and door openings is high quality rock,
together into a building with clean lines and prominent mortar-joints.”       carefully placed. The bulk of the building is done with lower quality rock,
                                                                              less carefully placed. The east portion of the building, which was evidently
                                                                              added at some point in time, is of generally poor-quality rock and workmanship.”

                                                                              [Note: The east portion of the building was not added. It is the rear of the
                                                                              building seen along the left edge of the above photo. We conjecture that the
                                                                              builders of the mill simply used the best stone first, then finished with what they
                                                                              had.]

Assembly Hall stone close-up (1889 photo)                                             Deseret Paper Mill stone close-up (circa 1927)




The Assembly Hall benefited from cut stone.                                   The Deseret Paper Mill benefited from cut stone for lintels,
                                                                              window and door casements, arches and exterior corners.
                                                                                                                                                                    3
3- DESERET PAPER MILL STONEWORK
A-Window casements (12 photos)




(1)                (2)            (3)




(4)                         (5)




(6)                         (7)
                                        4
Window casements (8)   (9)




(10)                   (11)




(12)


                              5
3- DESERET PAPER MILL STONEWORK
B-Unreinforced masonry walls (URM) walls (6 photos)




(1)A – Interior Wall B – Mortar C – Exterior Wall         (2)




(3)                                            (4)




(5)                                                 (6)
                                                                6
      3- DESERET PAPER MILL STONEWORK
      C-Wall base layers green dots = granite, red dots = native stone, (7 photos)




      (1)                                        (2)




      (3)                                        (4)




(5)                       (6)                                   (7)


                                                                                     7
4-DESERET PAPER MILL RECONSTRUCTION
The Deseret Paper Mill suffered a fire in 1883.




Interior fire damage 1927 photo




A rebuild of the “old Deseret Paper Mill ruin” began in 1927. The Old Mill
Club opened for outdoor dancing that summer. Note the people on the second
level-building safety code was not nationalized, nor in common use.

The cost of the 1927 rebuild was $269,000 (Salt Lake Tribune January 1972)

                                                                             8
5-ASSEMBLY HALL – OLD MILL RENOVATION COMPARISON
Assembly Hall                                                            Old Mill




Renovated 1980s                                                          Renovated 1976-1978

Church news article April 28, 2021                                       The renovation plans for the Old Mill will be submitted to Cottonwood Heights

‘An extensive renovation was undertaken in the 1980s. “After 100                Engineering requirements for the Old Mill renovation were:
years, the building needed some work,” Utt said. While inspections                     Repair / replacement of floor joists, general repair of floors
were being done to determine how best to install a new organ, “they                    Installation of bracing, columns and beams
discovered flaws in the structure of the building, in which the                        Bracketing to connect joists, beams, columns and exterior walls
footings were not strong enough to hold the building,” Poll said.’                     Repair and replacement of windows and doors
                                                                                       Repair of all exterior wood trim and paint
‘“Unfortunately, the roof leaked.” By about 1904, Utt said, there                      Roof repair
was enough water damage to the frescoes they were painted                              Tuck pointing of all cracks, exterior and interior, to restore rock
over. The roof had to be repaired in the early nineteen hundreds”                               to a sound condition
                                                                                        Fire code regulation compliance
Century-Old Assembly Hall is Renovated, JoAnn Jolley,                                   Concrete landings and ramps
Ensign Magazine February 1983                                                           Sheetrock in areas with 2-hour fire rating
                                                                                        Install partitions and fire doors
“Our prime consideration was what we could do to make it service-                       Install fire sprinkler system
able for this day and age”. Making the building “serviceable”                           Complete electrical renovation including lighted exit signs
included just about everything.”                                                        New culinary water line

‘Even before the renovation project got underway, a major concern
developed, originating in the attic. “We were worried about the roof,”
                                                                                                                                                             9
                  Attachment - B
Contract Documents for Old Mill Restoration
Attachment - C
  Proposals for Use
                                                                                                       PROPOSALS             FOR    USE      - 3 PAGES




Submission         to Cottonwood           Heights
April    7, 2026
Old Mill,     public
Proposals     for Use
Walker      Development




CONTENTS            IN THIS       DOCUMENT
l-Statement
2-Proposals        for Use




1-      STATEMENT


            For decades        many       have come        to the Walker          family       with   proposals       for use of the Old Mill.            Some
            of these proposals            were      specified     with     documents,        some were        folks    who     knocked      on the door,
            some were        phone        messages.       Where      documents          are lacking,        memory       must    serve.


            Many       of these proposals            aye cMssic      and wonderful,            and as can be seen, many              of the proposals
            were    not serious.          For ideas      that yere        sensible,    there     was always        something       about    the building
            that didn't      work.


2 - PROPOSALS              FOR       USE


1927        "Amusement.              Socialrecreation.            Golf.     Teiu'iisandothergames.                 Horsebackriding.               The
            establishment        and maintenance                of a club     house.       A riding     academy."
                        Document:           Articles      of Incorporation            and By-Laws,          Old Mill     Club
                        THE      INITIAL         INVESTMENT                 TO REBUILD                THE    DESERET           PAPER       MILL     RUIN
                        WAS      NEVER           RECOVERED.                 ANTICIPATED                INTEREST         IN A PRIVATE              CLtTB
                        NEVER          MATERIALIZED.


1970        Antique       Shop
                        Document,          letter
                        BUILDING            TOO        LARGE


1971        PersoninterestedinmakingtheO1dMillallaboutFOOD
                        Document,          a deposition
                        WITH         NO    SURROUNDING                    RETAIL,       THE       OLD       MILL      DIDN'T       FIT A "FOOD
                        COURT"            VENUE


1971        MusicArtsSchool
                        Document,          letter
                        SPACE         NOT     SUITED.            HEATING          ISSUES
1973   "Great      potential     for restaurant,       dancing,       etc."
                    Docut'nent,       Salt Lake Board            of Realtors        Multiple      Listing       Service,    November        1"'


                    [Note:      This document          dates four days after the death of J. B. Walker.                             At this point     the
                    Old Mill      had been closed by the Board of Health                          and the potential          for DANCING            AND
                    DINING        AT THE         OLD    MILL        HAD       STRUGGLED                 FOR THIRTY           YEARS.]


1974   "Apermanentrestaurant,weekendstomps,skierhostelaccornrnodations,adinnertheater,
       catering,     art mail,     ski parking        with     shuttle,    botanical      gardens and shops."
                    Document,         business proposal            by Dale W---,          January        12'h
                    THIS       PROPOSER           GAVE        DARYL         LETHAM             A SEVEN-PAGE                PROPOSAL,          THEN
                    MOVED         ON AND             WAS NEVER             HEARD          FROM          AGAIN.


1976   "Arestaurant,agiftshop,privateroomsforbanquetsandparties."
                    Document,         letter to S. L. County              Fire Department,          January       23'd
                    MARKET            STUDY          NEEDED


1976   "Clayne       and Ken were in agreement                   that a Convention             Center would          be a good use for the
       building."
                    Document,         letter, Fabian         & Clendenin,        meeting         with    S. L. County        planning
                    cornrnissioners,         April    29'.
                    MARKET            ST{JDY         NEEDED


1976   "Use     as a ceramics         shop and indoor-outdoor                 art shows and other               similar    uses."
                    Document,         le'tter to Property         Owner       on a rezoning         hearing,       November         23".
                    USE TOO VAGUE,                   BUILDING             TOO LARGE              FOR THE          SMALL       RETAIL         MARKET
                    REPRESENTED                BY CERAMIC                 SHOPS


1977   "AWedding           Reception        Center."
                    Document,         year summary,           Walker       Development
                    THIS       IDEA    RECYCLED               SEVERAL           TIMES,         EVEN       WHEN        WEDDING              RECEPTION
                    CENTERS           WERE        GOING         OUT       OF BUSINESS


1978   "Miniaturegolfcourse.                 Shops.      Restaiu'ant.          Family/youthactivityandrecreationcenter."
                    Document,         letter, VMS       Consulting,           August      lO'h
                    TOO VAGUE,              TOO VARIED


1978   "Our     plans, in addition          to the pond and park facilities,                have included           the restoration         of the old
       mill   for demonstration             of the actual milling           operations         and making         paper.     we have also talked            of
       restoring     the main hall for social                events and the upper hall for melodrama                        productions."
                    Document,         letter, S. L. County          Recreation           and Parks Department,              July 27'h
                    SALT       LAKE     COUNTY           NEVER            FOUND          FUNDING            FOR ANY         USE


1979   "Dancing.        Boutique       sliops.       Small     to medium        retail    shops.        Recreation.        Flea markets.          Arts and
       crafts fairs.       Pliilanthropic        and educational           uses."
                    Document,         letter, Law      Offices      of Roe and Fowler,              February        14
                    TOO VARIED,              CONFLICTING                  USE OF SPACE,             DANCING               AGAIN




                                                                                                                                                                 2
1990s              "Bed     and Breakfast"
                               (woman,         file with her name not found yet)
                    THIS    WOMAN            INQUIRED             ABOUT           A BED      & BREAKFAST,                 THEN      SPENT     $79,-.     -
                    OF HER OWN              MONEY             (OR SAID           SHE HAD)         HIRING           PROFESSIONALS              TO
                    ASSESS       THE FEASIBILITY                    OF RESTORING                  THE       OLD     MILL     FOR A BED AND
                    BRF.AKFAST.             HER FINDINGS                  WERE        PROPRIETARY                  AND     WERE     NOT      SHARED
                    WITH      WALKER              DEVELOPMENT.                    SHE DID         NOT       PtTRSUE        THE     BED AND
                    BREAKFAST             VENTURE.


1990s              "Wedding         Reception         Center"
                    CASUAI,         SUGGESTION,                 AGAIN


2014               "Film      & Digital      Media       Center"
                               Document,           email,      Brian     B---,    September        I Ith
                    NO FURTHER              INFORMATION                   ON THIS


2020, circa        "Respite      care facility        for young,         medically     critical     patients."
                    Jody D---,      personal        visits


                    JODY      CAME        TWICE.             HIS PLAN        FOR THE          OLD       MILL       WAS FOR HOUSING
                    LONG-TERM              MEDICAL              PATIENTS           (CHILDREN)              WHILE         THEIR     FAMILY        TOOK    A
                    MUCH-NEEDED                   VACATION.              THERE        WERE        TO BE WHEELCHAIR                     ACCESSIBLE
                    GARDENS          AND          RESIDENT           ANIMALS.              JODY      HAD       SUCCESSFtJLLY                OPENED       A
                    RESIDENT            HOME        FOR MEDICAL                   PATIENTS.          HE HAD          TIES TO LOCAL
                    PEDIATRIC           MEDICAL               CLINICS       AND       MEDICAL              SUMMER          CAMPS.       HE ALSO
                    HAD     TIES     TO DONORS.                 DISCUSSIONS                BETWEEN             JODY AND            WALKER
                    DEVELOPMENT                    LED       JODY      TO CONCL{JDE                THAT       BUILDING           NEW    WAS A
                    BETTER         FINANCIAL                 FIT-THE         OLD      MILL     COULD           NOT       BE MADE
                    SEISMICALLY              SAFE WITHOUT                    MAJOR         FINANCIAL               INVESTMENT,             NOR     DID
                    THE BUILDING                  EASILY        LEND       ITSELF       TO ADA             RESIDENTIAL             REQUIREMENTS.


2022    "An    event center."
                    PHONE        MESSAGE


2024    "A    cultural   hub, Saturday            morning       community          markets,    concerts        for local bands and performers,
         outdoor    movie     nights,     high school          dances, art exhibits,          weddings."
                    Entrepreneur         meeting        Jax J---, Oscar B---, Levi J---, Jiu'ie 6
                    THIS    GROUP          MOVED             ON, LOOKING              FOR A DIFFERENT                    HISTORICAL
                    BUILDING            THAT       WOULD            BETTER          SUIT     FINANCIAI,LY


2024    "A    private,   high-end       virtual     sports club with             some access for the priblic              and ten acres for
        premirim-scale         hockey      activities        ancillary     to the coming          professional       hockey      league."
                    Phone call, Ryan E---.
                    RYAN      WAS FIRM              NOT       SO MUCH             ON THE      OLD          MILL,    BUT     ON THE      WEST
                    LOCATION.             HE WAS ENCOURAGED                           TO SEE IF HIS IDEA                   WOULD       FIT BETTER
                    EAST      OF SR-190            WITH        IMPROVED             ACCESS.          HE DIDN'T             THINK     SO.




                                                                                                                                                             3
   Attachment - D
Research on Preservation
                                                                                               RESEARCH             ON PRESERVATION
                                                                                               OF HISTORIC              BUILDINGS               - 2 PAGES




Submission           to Cottonwood             Heights
April    7, 2026
Old Mill,         public
Research          on Preservation            of Historic       Buildings
Walker        Development




CONTENTS                 IN THIS         DOCUMENT
l-The    purpose           for this information.
2-Articles.




1 -THE         P{JRPOSE             FOR     THIS     INFORMATION


              In addition           to seeking     professiorial:.engineering               reports,     Walker      Development             researched       articles
              pertinent       to historic        preservAtion        in hopes         of finding    innovative         ideas that might           help mitigate
              issues       innate     to the Old Mill.          The following            list seemed      most     applicable        to the Old Mill.          All
              articles      are online.


2 - ARTICLES


              A              A Sustainable          Design      Strategy        for the Restoration            of Historical        Buildings,      2017


                             Instihite      of Metal       Stnictures,       Dept.     of Civil    Engineering,         Aristotle      University       of
                            Thessaloniki,          School       of Engineering,           University         of Birmingham,           United       Kingdom


              B              Towards        Zero-Emission            Refurbisent               of Historic      Buildings:        A Literature       Review,         2018


                             Dept.       of Architecture        and Technology,             Norwegian          University,      Trondheim,          Norway


              C             Hygrothernnal           Performance            Evaluation        of Internally       Insulated        Historic       Stone Building
                             In a Cold       Climate,       2023


                             Institute      of Energy       Systems        and Environment,             Riga     Technical        University,       Riga,    Latvia


              D              Environmental           Control       of Dry       Rot,    2002


                             Dry     Rot Researcli         Grorip,       University       of Abertay         Dundee,     Bell     Street,    Dundee,        Scotland


              E              A Systematic          Approach          Towards         Restoration       of Heritage       Buildings          - A Case Study,          2013


                             Gradriate       Scholar,      Dept.     of Civil     Engineering,          Purdue      University,        USA
F   Science Friday, Drilling     Into the Secrets of Roman Concrete, 2017


    Segment Guest: Marie D. Jackson, geology, geophysics research professor, University
                      of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utali


G   Preservation   Briefs #24
    Heating, Ventilating,   and Cooling     Historic   Buildings:   Problems   and Recommended
    Approaches, 1991


    Sharon C. Park, AIA,       U.S. Dept. of the Interior, National   Park Service
Attachment - E
Seismic Detail Summary
                                                                         SEISMIC     DETAIL     SUMMARY-l          PAGE




Submission      to Cottonwood       Heights
April   7, 2026
Old Mill,    public
Seismic Detail Summary
Walker Development



CONTENTS          IN THIS DOCUMENT
1 -Carl Eriksson        Report   (submitted   to plai'ining commission        February 16, 2026)
2 -Utah Geological        Survey (submitted     to plaru'iing commission        February 16, 2026)




1-   CARL      R. ERIKSSON         REPORT      EXCERPT,      ITEM    2


         "Information        that will be riseful in evaluating     the hazard is: The Wasatch Fault is located about
            1500 feet to the east. The fault is capable of generating            earthqriakes of a Richter magnitude         7.5,
            and surface fault rupture of 6 to 15 feet. The building             is located in an area identified   broadly    as
            having moderate liquefaction        potential.   It is located adjacent to Big Cottonwood         Creek, and as
            such, may be subject to high water tables at times."


2 - UTAJ-I GEOLOGICAL               SURVEY      EXCERPT,      TABLE       1


            Mapped Geologic        Hazards                   Hazard Category
            Surface Fault Rupture                            Well Defined       Faults
            Ground Shaking                                   Severe/Violent
            Flood and Debris-Flow        Hazard              High Priority
            Flood and Debris-Flow        Hazard              Moderate     Priority
            Landslide                                        Undetermined
                                               Attachment - F
Engineering Processes, Seismic Retrofit, Remediation, and Rehabilitation
Submission      to Mayor Bennion
March 5, 2026
Old Mill,    with regard to covering
Regan Shelby




Section I            Consensus on definitions              of three engineering         processes, seismic retrofit,       remediation           and
                     rehabilitation.


Section II           Three engineering           processes and deliverables.


Section III          Engineering           processes with regard to the Old Mill.


Section IV           Additional          Questions on deliverables           and use.


Section V            Engineering           processes and a cover.




I-Terminology:             Consensus on definitions.


                     The twelve-month               process of discussing the Old Mill reqriires consensus                 on   what is being
                     discussed.          The Calder Richards report defines three engineering                 processes.        These
                     definitions         are excellent should be used for discussion.


            A-Definitions         from the Calder Richards Report, page I paragraph 3.


                             Retrofit,     Or seismic    retrofit
                             "the process of upgrading               the structure for seismic    loading.   This is typically
                             strengthening       exterior walls and their foundations,            adding shear walls, and
                             strengthening       floor and roof diaphragms            and their connections       to exterior walls".


                     ii - Remediation
                             "mitigating      all structinal        deficiencies   including   seismic retrofit   and upgrading            the
                             deficiencies      relative to gravity load system (floor and roof framing)".


                     iii    - Rehabilitation
                             "upgrading       the entire structure inclusive          of remediation.     It would include upgrades
                             to gravity      load system, the retrofit         work, and complete architectural,        mechanical           and
                             electrical     work.     In essence, rehabilitation        would deliver an inhabitable            finished
                             structure".




1
II-Use:     Three       engineering         processes           and deliverables.


          A-Retrofit,           or seismic         retrofit


                        The process         of upgrading             a structure           for seismic       loading     is typically         itwolves
                        strengthening            exterior       walls       and their       foundations,       adding      shear walls,          and strengthening
                        floor   and roof         diaphragms             and their       connections          to exterior     walls.


                        Does     seismic      retrofit          deliver       a habitable         structure?


          B-Remediation


                        This    process      includes           a seismic       retrofit      and upgrades         to the gravity         load system            (floor       and
                        roof    framing).


                        Does     remediation             deliver        a habitable           structure?


          C-Rehabilitation


                        This    process      includes           a seismic       retrofit,      upgrades       to the gravity         load system            (floor     and
                        roof    framing)         plus    complete           architectural,        mechanical           and electrical         work.


                        Rehabilitation             DOES           deliver       a habitable         structure.


          Retrofit/seismic           retrofit,      Remediation,               Rehabilitation         and the Old Mill.


                        Applying        the three        engineering            processes         to the Old Mill          brings     more       questions.


                                    Will     a seismic           retrofit      correct      the deficiencies           of original      rinreinforced           masonry
                                     ({JRM)         and original            mortar?


                                     Will    a seismic           retrofit      leave       one side of the stone walls                (inside     or outside)          with
                                     the original             historical      look?


                                     Will    seismic           retrofit/remediation                correct     the original         framing       and its deficient
                                     diaphragm              (which         is not connected          to exterior       walls),      or will     retrofit/
                                     remediation              require       replacement           of the original        framing        to correct       diaphragm
                                     deficiencies?


           A-Retrofit/seismic                retrofit         and the Old Mill


                         Consider       the process             of seismic       retrofit      in light    of engineer        assessment           of the Old Mill.


                                      Seismic        retrofit      "typically          involves      strengthening          EXTERIOR               WALLS             and their
                                     FO'[JNDATIONS,...strengthening                                 FLOOR         and ROOF            DIAPHRAGMS                     and their
                                      CONNECTIONS                       TO EXTERIOR                 WALLS."
a)-The    1996     Carl R. Eriksson                Report
          "the     stnicture          could     be seismically           strengthened              through       the use of a new
          steel braced              frame     installed       adjacent      to the existing            URM         walls.        If this
           approach          is chosen,         anchors       should      be attached          to the frame              and pass
          through          the walls         to positively       tie the URM             walls      to the steel sttucture.
           The steel structure                 would       need to carry          the substantial            inertia      forces
           associated          with     the massiye           URM        walls.      The anchors             would        need to be
           spaces a maximum                     of 6 feet on center."


          "While           the existing         foundations           appear      to be functioning               well,     it is not
           recornrnended               that significant          new forces          be added to them.                   Additional
           loads     imposed           by, for example,             the braced          frame,      should        be carried           on a
           properly          designed         foundation        system.           Unless     a deep foundation                   is used,
           the bottom              of the footing          of the system          should      be at approximately                   the
           same level              as that of the existing             system,      to avoid         overloading            or
           undermining."


          "Most           of the floors         in the building          appear         to be of plank            and beam
           construction...The                   ability     of such floors          to act as diaphragms                   may be
           questioned              and should        be addressed."


           "The      roof      evidently         is of spaced          sheathing,        and will        not perform             well        as a
           diaphragm."


b)-The    Reaveley           Report         2022
           "A     full     seismic      upgrade           of the entire      lateral       force     resisting       system
           including           strengthening              perimeter      stone walls"


           "These          measures           may include        adding         concrete       shear walls             or shotcrete,
           adding          vertical     reinforcement            to walls         by coring         vertically         through         the
           wall      from      the top to the foundation                   and grouting             in rebar,      adding
           composite               overlay      to walls"


           "The          lateral    force     resisting       system      consists       of stone walls             at the
           perimeter           and wood            straight    sheathed         floor      and roof       diaphragms.              No
           diaphragm               to wall      connections           capable      of transferring            seismic        or wind
           lateral        forces      exist."


 c)-The   Gilson          Report      - Cost To Mitigate                2024
           "In     order       to meet        any building          codes fit for human                occupancy,            the
            structiire        would         have to have a competent                    foundation           to support          the
           heavy          load of the granite              blocks      as well      as applicable            code criteria             for
            loading,         based on the intended                  occupancy."


           "The          structure      needs and foundation                   and a new foundation                      could     be
            installed         in short        segments,        but supporting            the existing            block      sh-ucture
            during         this work          is infeasible      due to the fact that the stone is
         uru'einforced.                  Every     block      on both sides,             including            the base, would               have
         to be supported                   and properly            shored       to safely       have access to install                      a
         foundation              system."


         "It    [stacked           rock]     lacks     any lateral            resistance        and worild          have to be
         reinforced              with      a structural       shell        or reinforced          with        pins/rebar.           If vertical
          steel pins were                 installed        from      above,      the vibration            of drilling         through
          granite         rock     would         further     damage           the existing           mortar       beds and
          compromise                any remaining                 integrity      of the blocks            around        the work."


         "Another            option         would      be a structural               shell.     If a reinforced             concrete
          shell     were         added       on the exterior            or interior           face, it would            have to be
          properly          anchored             to the granite         block."


d)-The   Gilson       Report            - Struchiral         Assessment              2024
         "All      walls         lack reinforcement                  and the mortar             joint     between         rocks        is
          disintegrating                 or absent.         The method               to reinforce        these walls           would
          involve          the construction                of a super-structure                 shell with        walls       that
          ...support             their     own     lateral     forces         as well     as the lateral           inertia      of the
          existing         rock.         This would          require          a cage on the face of the rock                         or
          heavily         reinforced             shotcrete         that would          permanently              cover     the original
          block."


         "Those           stone walls             would      benefit          from     rebar     reinforcement               with     internal
          rebar      like a typical              masoru'y          block      building         is constructed           today."


          "The       height         of the walls           combined            with     the large        stone size exacerbates
          the danger              of the existing            stnicture         and need for lateral                reinforcement."


          "A      third     alternative           is to retrofit           a building         with      a base isolator.             The
           building         will        be base isolated             so that the forces                from     a ground-shaking
           event      cannot         reach the struchire."


          "For      reference,             the Salt Lake             City-County              Building         was retrofitted              with   a
           base isolation                system       in 1980s"


          "In     2004       to 2008,            the Utah         State Capital          underwent             a $273 million
           upgrade          which          included         $65 to $70 million                 for base isolators              and
           appurtenant              work."


          "The        Salt Lake            Temple          is cunently          undergoing              a major     retrofit         with       base
           isolators         so that a 7.3 magnitude                        earthqriake         will     feel more          like     a 5.1 or
           5.2 magnitiide.                 (littps:.//ivvvyv.deseret.com/2019/19/20671272/here-s-how-
tlie-salt-lake-temple-s-base-isolation-system-will-protect-it-froin-earthquakes).
         "The       Old Mill         walls       are constructed            with      stacked     stone walls.             It has a
         wood       floor        and roof      diaphragm           without         any positive           connection           to the
         walls."


         "There        are not existing              connections           to transfer         shear forces         between           the
          stone walls            and the roof          & floor      diaphragms."




e)-The   Calder     Richards          Report         2024
         "The      exterior        walls      are constructed           of stacked            granite      blocks        and are
         very      heavy.         In the main          building,       the wall        thickness         is not known            but is
         probably          on the order of 12 inches                    or more         on the lower          levels.        In any
         case, the walls             are massive             and would        require         a very     robust     retrofit
          system       to support           them for out-of-plane                  seismic       forces."


         "The      massive          weight        of the granite        block         walls     worild      require       robust
         shear walls             to resist     seismic       forces,     as well        as significant           floor     and roof
         diapbragms              to distribute          these forces         to the shear walls."


         "Most        retrofit      strategies         used to impart           lateral       bracing       to unreinforced
         masoruy           walls     rely     on some meaningful                     bond between            the masonry             rinits
         provided          by cementitious               mortar.       In the case of the Old Mill                       granite
         block      walls,        any bond between                 the rinits        is questionable,          if not totally
         lacking."


         "The      structure         does not have a conventional                         concrete        footing        and
         foundation,             but rather       stacked        granite      blocks      bearing         on natural        soil."


         "...any       seismic        retrofit       of the stnicture           would         require     underpinning               all
         granite       block       walls      with     new concrete           foundation           with     all exterior
         foundations             extending           below     frostline."


         "The      construction              process      to install       new concrete           foundations              below      the
         granite      block        walls      worild     be very       difficult        because         of the massive             weight
         of the walls            and their       lack    of stnictural          integrity."


         "The      floor     and roof          diaphragms           would       have to be replaced                 with     a new
         diaphragm           capable          of resisting         and distributing             the high      lateral       seismic
         forces."


         "It    is not altogether             clear whether            wood        diaphragms            would      even have
         sufficient         strength         to resist    the high         lateral     forces,     requiring        a possible
         alternative         scheme          of steel bracing           or concrete            diaphragms.
B-Remediation         of the Old Mill


          Consider    the process          of remediation              in light       of engineer           assessment         of the Old Mill.


                     (seismic     retrofit)       "and       '[TPGRADING                deficiencies            relative      to GRAVITY                LOAD
                     SYSTEM            (floor     and roof         framing)".


                     a)-The      1996      Carl     R. Eriksson            Report
                                 "In     1978      a second          refurbishing            of the structure           was performed.                  The floor
                                 beams          were     all tied into the walls                  of the structure           with    positive,         bolted
                                  connections,            although           the bolts        are not thru-bolts."


                     b)-The      Reaveley          Report         2022
                                 "The       building         constniction            consists         of stone perimeter               walls,     laid with
                                  mortar,        unreinforced,             with     timber        floor     and roof.        Framing         is rough        sawn
                                  with     straight        sheathing."


                                 "Gravity          upgrades          include        replacing           all deteriorated          gravity        framing
                                  members           (columns,          beams,         joists),       replacing        deteriorated          straight
                                  sheathing,           and strengthening                existing          framing      to provide         capacity          to
                                  support         required         loads.      Upgrades           to beam          and joist      connections            to walls
                                  and columns              will     likely     be required."


                     c)-The      Gilson         Report       - Cost To Mitigate                  2024
                                  Gravity         load system            not addressed.


                     d)-The      Gilson         Report       - Structural          Assessment              2024
                                 "Stone           and masoruy            structiu'es         built      without      reinforcement              routinely
                                  exhibit         poor    performance              when        exposed         to lateral      loads     from      strong
                                  winds,         earthquakes           and impact.               The structire         risually      has resistance              to
                                  vertical        loads,      but any induced                 lateral      loads    or sudden        movement             may
                                  result        in partial        or entire       failure      of the stnicture."


                     e)-The      Calder         Richards          Report      2024
                                  "These          sti'uctural       upgrades          would          include       a major     seismic       retrofit       of the
                                  lateral        load resisting           systems           as well       as significant       work       to upgrade             the
                                  gravity         load system            inclriding          the floor       and roof        framing      and their
                                  supports."


 C-Rehabilitation        of the Old Mill.


                      (seismic     retrofit,        upgraded          gra-vity       load system)              and "COMPLETE
                      ARCHITECTURAL,                         MECHANICAL                       AND         ELECTRICAL                WORK".


                      a)-Architectural
                                  The venue              design      of the 1927 rebuild                   of the Deseret           Paper Mill          was
                                        dancing/dining/private                  club.      Rehabilitation           must       address      current      zoning
                                        and ordinances.             The design            of interior       space should           be specific        to use.


                           b)-Mechanical
                                        HVAC-Seismic                retrofit      with     steel frarning           would        change     the interior          of
                                        the Old Mill          significantly,        however,            the right     retrofit      system       might      allow
                                        proper      insulation.         Heating         the Old Mill         has been cost-prohibitive                     for
                                        every      business       effort    since 1927.            Insulation        would        certainly      lower
                                        heating      bills.    Adequate          insulation         and design         of interior         space specific-
                                        Ito-use     would        be the best-case           scenario        for economic            HVAC.


                                        PLUMBING-The                    Old Mill         is on a septic         tank    system.         Connection           to
                                        the public        sewer      system       would         be required.         Knowing          specific     planned
                                        use or even general                use would         allow      sewer       capacity       to be correctly          sized.



                           c)-Electrical
                                        The electrical           system     ripgrade        of the 1978 renovation                   was designed            for
                                        improved         lighting      and sound           of the large-room             venue.        Since vandals
                                        removed          $20,000 of copper wiring                    in 2011, a complete               electric system is
                                        needed.       The design           should        be specific-to-use.


IV-Understanding       the engineering        processes        brings      more      questions.


         A-Questions      for engineers:


                           Does    retrofit       save one side (inside             or outside)           of an historic          structure      and leave
                           the other       side usable?


                           Does    retrofit      leave    an historic          structure        that can be looked               at but should        be
                           protected       from     entry?


                           Does    remediation           allow      short-term          entry    into    an historic        structure?


         B-uestions      for architects:


                           Depending          on use, corild         the rehabilitation              of the Old Mill             provide
                           10,000-24,000            square       feet of inhabitable             space?


                           Is this possible         inhabitable         space consistent             with    current        zoning?


                           Would       a market      study       promise        a sriccessful        outcome         of a business            enterprise?
V-Does     the Old Mill        need a cover?


                      This   qriestion      brings      more      questions.


         A-Engineering               reports     suggest       that original        floor      and roof      framing        do not constitute          a viable
                      diaphragm.


                                 Would          seismic      retrofit    require      interior       framing       / flooring      to be completely
                                 remoyed7


                                 If the answer            is yes, then protection                of framing        / flooring       is not needed.
                                 If the answer            is no, then the next question                     must    be asked.


                                 Would          remediation         require       interior      framing/         flooring      to be completely          replaced?


                                 If the answer            is yes, then protection                of framing/flooring                is not needed.
                                 If the answer            is no, then the next question                     must    be asked.


         B-Space,         design      and use requirements,                 and rehabilitation.


                                 Would          rehabilitation          and design-to-use              require     interior      framing/flooring            to be
                                 completely           replaced?


                                 If the answer            to this question           is yes, then protection                of the framing       /
                                 flooring         is not needed.


         C-Original          large    framing        timbers       appear     to be sound.             Before      using      original    timbers      for
                      remediation        or rehabilitation,             inspections          must      be made      for dry rot.         A decision      could
                      then be made          concerning           use-weight-bearing                    or aesthetic


         D -In   the event         a cover       is desired       and is approved.


                      i          Adding          a cover     would       change       the load on seismically-incompetent                           unreinforced
                                 masonry          (URM).          Snow      load, rain weight,              wind     damage        and drainage        are three
                                 considerations.              Engineers        could         provide     a complete           list of factors   to consider.


                                 A feasibility          study     would       be wise.


                                 Complete           engineering          of a cover          is required.


                                 Three         engineering        reports     on method             would     be wise.


                      v          Other      issues     that must         be addressed.


                                 a)-Safety         and liability         during     installment.
                      b)-Increased       attraction      to vandals.


                                 Owners      estimate         a cover    would    attract   vandals     within      twenty-four       hours.
                                 In the event         the cover    took     days or weeks       to constntct,        damage        to the
                                 construction         would     be daily.     After   completion,       a cover      would     be seen by
                                 vandals     as a game.         Current     vandal/trespass         records      are available.

E-Consideration         of timing.


         Current      moisture    must     be aired,     and the possibility          of trapping     condensation           and
         increasing      the potential      for development             of mold   must      be addressed.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
May 6, 2026


Request
This is a resident-initiated request for a zoning text amendment to update Chapter 19.76
(Supplementary And Qualifying Rules and Regulations) and 19.75 (Development Standards) of the
City Code. The proposed amendment would allow second utility meters for guesthouses and
detached accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in cases where existing utilities cannot be adequately
sized or where upgrades would be unreasonable, while requiring that the primary residence remain
responsible for billing associated with both meters.

Background & Overview
The City’s current regulations governing utility meters for accessory dwelling units (ADUs) and
guesthouses were adopted to maintain the functional and financial integration of these units with
the primary residence. Under existing code, Section 19.75.050 prohibits the installation of separate
utility meters for ADUs, and Section 19.76.030 similarly prohibits separate utilities for
guesthouses.

This proposed amendment is resident-initiated, stemming from a specific project in which a
property owner is constructing an ADU on a site with severe grading constraints (see attached
narrative document for additional details). In this case, connecting the ADU to the primary
residence’s existing utility lines would require significant excavation, disruption to established
landscaping, and considerable additional expense. At the same time, the property is close to
alternative utility connections that could serve the ADU more efficiently and with far less impact.

Staff have received similar feedback from other residents indicating that the current prohibition on
separate utility meters can be overly restrictive in situations where physical site conditions or
infrastructure limitations make connecting to the primary structure’s utility meter impractical. In
such cases, requiring connection to the primary dwelling may create unnecessary financial and
logistical burdens without advancing the intent of the ordinance.

To address these concerns, the resident recommends modifying both sections to allow separate
utility meters when it can be clearly demonstrated that (1) the existing utilities cannot be
adequately sized to accommodate both units, or (2) bifurcation from the primary residence is
unreasonable due to site-specific constraints such as topography, distance, or infrastructure
limitations. This maintains the City’s general intent of limiting unnecessary utility separation while
introducing flexibility for unique circumstances.

Additionally, for detached ADUs and guesthouses that are permitted a second utility meter, the
resident suggests adding a provision that any approved separate utility meters must be billed to the
same property owner as the primary residence. This ensures continued accountability and
prevents the creation of independently serviced units that function as separate dwellings outside
the intent of the ordinance.

This amendment responds to a demonstrated constraint, modernizes the City’s utility regulations
for ADUs and guesthouses, and strikes a balance between flexibility and oversight to better
                                                           Planning Commission Memo – ZTA-26-001
                                                                                     May 6, 2026

accommodate varied property conditions while preserving the integrity of the City’s housing
policies.

For additional context, Salt Lake County’s code allows detached ADUs to be separately metered so
long as the property owner is billed for both. This restriction eliminates the possibility of an ADU
being sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence. This precedent supports the
possibility for additional flexibility in metering practices for ADUs and guesthouses.


Recommendation & Model Motions
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the
City Council for the proposed changes.

Approval
I move that we forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for project ZTA-26-001,
based on the finding listed in the staff memo and attachments dated May 6, 2026.
    • List any other findings or conditions for recommendation of approval…

Denial
I move that we forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for project ZTA-26-001,
based on the following findings…
    • List findings for negative recommendation…



Attachments
   1. Proposed Changes
   2. Narrative
                                  Zoning Text Amendment

        Nash Williams, proposed zoning text amendments to Cottonwood Heights.

The proposed zoning text amendment pertains to Section 19.76.030 and is distinguished
from the original text by yellow highlighting and red font.

19.76.030 Structures, Bulk And Massing Requirements

A. Dwellings, including guest homes, on lots.
1. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as deﬁned in this title. Except
   for group dwellings and guest houses, not more than one dwelling structure shall
   occupy a lot.
2. Guest houses shall be a permitted use in the following zones:
   a. R-1-8; R-1-10; and R-1-15
   b. RR-1-21; RR-1-29; and RR-1-43
   c. F-1-21; and F-1-43
   d. F-20

3. The guest house shall be a detached accessory use to a principal residence and shall
   be located in the rear yard of the principal lot.
4. The maximum allowed area of the guest house shall not exceed 25% of the area of the
   rear yard.
5. The ﬂoor area of the guest house and principal residence combined shall not exceed
   the maximum impervious surface coverage for the site.
6. The rental or lease of a guest house, or the use of a guest house as a permanent
   residence for a second family on the premises shall be prohibited.
7. Installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is prohibited unless unless it
   can be demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the
   applicable utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the
   guest house or that bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably
   achieved.”
8. All bulk and massing requirements for accessory buildings, as per the applicable zone,
   shall be applicable to the guest house.
The proposed zoning text amendment pertains to Section 19.76.050 and is distinguished
from the original text by yellow highlighting and red font.

19.75.050 Development Standards

   A. The property’s record owner (including titleholders and contract purchasers) must
      occupy either the primary dwelling unit or the approved ADU as such owner’s
      permanent residence and at no time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit. An
      application for an ADU permit shall include evidence of owner occupancy in the
      form of the affidavit required by Section 19.75.060 and such other veriﬁcation(s) as
      the city reasonably may require.
   B. ADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals.
   C. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.
   D. The design and size of the ADU shall conform to all current applicable standards in
      the building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, ﬁre, health, and any other applicable
      codes. When a new internal ADU is proposed in an existing home, the entire internal
      ADU shall be brought up to all minimum standards, as inspected and approved by
      city staff.
   E. The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited unless it can be
      demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the applicable
      utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the ADU or
      that bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably achieved.”
   F. Each internal ADU shall require one off-street parking space in addition to required
      parking for the primary dwelling unit. In no case shall fewer than three total off-
      street parking stalls be provided for any property with an internal ADU. The
      additional required parking space shall not be located behind or in front one of the
      required parking spaces for the primary dwelling (i.e., tandem parking is prohibited).
                     Narrative to Zoning Text Amendment
Nash Williams utility connectivity issues for lot line adjust. at 3396 E Antler Way

Intent and rational: I am in process of extending my current property (3396 E. Antler Way) by way of a lot
line adjustment which has been submitted to CH (Cottonwood Heights) previously. The Cottonwood
Heights Code 19.76.030 Structures, Bulk And Massing Requirements restrictions for utilities state
“Installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is prohibited” and 19.75.050 Development
Standards restrictions utilities state “The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited”.
The application of these restrictions is quite onerous on my property and would cause extensive damage
to the existing property plus excessive expense (see below for speciﬁc conditions). The purpose of this
amendment is to allow a path for CH to consider and evaluate unique property issues relative to connecting
utilities to guest houses and ADU’s while preserving the purpose of those restrictions.

How the proposed zoning text amendment is consistent with long-term city goals: CH zoning currently
allows conditional use of accessory structures and accessory dwelling units (ADU’s). The proposed zoning
text amendment recognizes some properties are not easily adapted to a single meter for all utilities and
the current language does not allow consideration of extenuating circumstances unique to speciﬁc
properties. The proposed wording recognizes this and allows CH discretion when such circumstances are
apparent. If the purpose of disallowing separate meters for an accessory structure or ADU is to avoid
subdividing properties in the future, Salt Lake County Code 19.15.140 Subsection D. stipulates “ADUs may
not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.” and is their remedy to that issue.
Also, just a comment, that if a property is modiﬁed to add an ADU it seems counterintuitive that you
disallow separate meters when that dwelling is intended to be a rental unit. I do not see this having any
eﬀect to the City’s
General Plan and adopted master plans.

What has changed since original codification which makes this amendment necessary? I suspect there
has always been a need for this amendment on select projects, however, the challenge to make such a
modification and the time it takes is probably the reason it has not been updated previously.

Disregarding any benefit to a specific property owner or developer, how will the proposed
amendment benefit the community as a whole? How will it outweigh any negative impacts of the
change that is proposed? This amendment will benefit the community by reducing red tape and burden
to future property owners and as described above there are no obvious negative impacts to the City.




Regarding my specific conditions, see below:
Below is the site plan for the Williams Accessory Building as previously submitted. My existing home is
on the left (west) and proposed casita is on the right (east).




Below is a photograph of the street view of my property which depicts the diﬃculty of running separate
meters to the proposed Casita. Below are the utility details.
Power: my existing Rocky Mt Power meter is visible on the right side (west side) of the attached
photograph, and the proposed casita property is located toward the left side (east side). If you zoom in on
the photo there is a safety cone on top of a brick pedestal at the street side northeast corner of the
property (left side of photo). The distance between my existing power meter (in the photo) and the
proposed casita driveway is 194’. Extending power from my existing home meter to the proposed casita
entails crossing a heated driveway and destroying 194’ of landscaping (curb strip or street) between the
properties. If a second meter was allowed: the power nearest the casita location is approximately 3’ from
the northeast of the property.
On 2/27/26 I contacted Rocky Mountain Power regarding this issue. My call was returned by Jared
Mietchen (RMP representative for CH), we reviewed my property and means to connect to their utility.
Jared emailed the following: Nash per our conversation, it is more feasible to run service from the
junction box on the property 3418 East Antler Way to your new casita. That junction box is closer to the
point of delivery than the junction box on your property. As discussed, if you have two meters at the
same address one will be charged on a commercial rate 23 which is about 5% higher than a residential
rate. Cottonwood Heights would have to approve a second meter though. You can also give the casita an
address like 3396 ½ and it would be considered one meter and be on a residential rate. Let me know if
you have any questions. Thank you. Jared Mietchen – Journeyman Estimator, Jordan Valley Operations
- 801-220-6227

Gas: the gas service to my home is 123’ from the proposed casita driveway but again the gas main is in
the street within a couple feet of the new driveway and could easily be connected to a second meter
with minimal damage to the street and landscaping. Extending gas service from my existing home meter
to the proposed casita entails destroying 124’ of landscaping (curb strip or street) between the
properties and replacing the line through my mature pine tree forested area as the meter is on the side
of my house and the line size would need to be increased.
On 3/10/26 I received a returned call from Justin Cauldwell/Enbridge Gas Area Rep for Cottonwood
Heights, 801-819-4927, justin.caldwell@enbridge.com; He looked up my home on Google Earth and the
proposed casita lot while we talked. He told me we currently have a ½” service to our home which is too
small for our home if adding a casita and pool. To upgrade our service adequately on a single meter we
would need to tear up our landscaping from the street to our house then from our house to the casita.
He told me due to the mature trees along our frontage this would be very expensive and damaging to
our existing property. He as the representative for Enbridge and recommends a second meter at the
casita and stated they do this all the time for ADU’s and garages when it becomes too diﬃcult or
damaging to upgrade the service on a single meter. The second meter would require a unique address
such as 3396B to distinguish which structure uses which meter. He has never had a city deny a second
meter under these circumstances and would be glad to visit with Cottonwood Heights if they call.
Dominion Energy was contacted by phone 6/28/2024, viewed the properties online (Google Earth) while
we spoke and recommended a second meter. The second meter would require a unique address such as
3396B to distinguish which structure uses which meter.

Water: I contacted Salt Lake Public Utilities by phone 6/28/2024 and spoke to Kira regarding connecting
water service to the new property. They will only allow 1 meter per property however as the meter is in
the curb strip we can increase our service line to 1” but will need to extend the line 125’ to the casita
driveway. This utility does not oﬀer any variances but is much easier construct due to the meter
location.
As you can see by the photograph and descriptions the requirement to utilize only 1 meter per service is
quite onerous and expensive except for the water service. For the reasons described above I respectfully
request consideration to the Zoning Text Amendment which is attached.
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                       PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Wednesday, April 1, 2026
                                          6:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                   City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                      Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson (via Zoom), Commissioner Lucy
                      Anderson, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes,
                      Alternate Commissioner Rusty Lugo

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                      Recorder, Sydney Pierce; Planner III, Maverick Yeh; Planner I, Emma
                      Glende; System Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner III, Sheldon Howa

WORK SESSION

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda and reported that the General Public
Comment period would be followed by Projects CUP-2026-004 and CUP-2026-005 and the
Consent Agenda.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that Commissioners Mills
and Anderson were nearing the end of their second terms. An announcement was posted on the
City website inviting residents to apply for the Planning Commission, and he encouraged everyone
to share that information with friends and colleagues who may be interested in serving the City.
Eligible candidates must live in Cottonwood Heights, and it is preferred that they have experience
in real estate, planning, finance, or other areas that are applicable to the Planning Commission’s
duties.

Mr. Spung reported that the Utah Chapter of the American Planning Association (“APA UTAH”),
Utah League of Cities and Towns ("ULCT"), and Utah Land Use Institute would be holding
webinars with updates on the recent Legislative Session. He would forward links to the webinars
to the Commission. In response to a question, he reported that Planning Commissioners must
complete at least three hours of training each year. Attendance at nine or more meetings in one
year counts as one hour of training, and a new requirement was added in 2026 for training in a
specific area. New Commissioners cannot vote until they have completed training.

Planner I, Emma Glenda, reported on Project CUP-2026-004. The applicant requested approval
of a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for an exception to construct a second driveway approach at
1720 East 6670 South. He would be building an internal accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”), which


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                       1
requires an additional parking spot, but the presence of mature trees on his property would make
a circular driveway approach impractical. The second driveway would provide access to the ADU
while maintaining existing landscaping.

Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Section 14.12.110.B.1 states: Single-family dwellings shall
be permitted only one access unless a circular driveway approach is utilized. However, Section
14.12.150 allows for exceptions: In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other
exceptional conditions or circumstances exist, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this
chapter may be approved by the City Council after receiving recommendations from the City’s
Planning Commission and the department, provided that the variation or exceptions are not
detrimental to the public safety or welfare.

Site photographs were reviewed, as well as a conceptual drawing of the location of the second
driveway in relation to the ADU. Ms. Glende noted that the ADU would be subject to standard
permitting and licensing requirements, and the application was only for the second driveway
approach.

The Public Works Department reviewed the application and specified the following:

   •   A clear sight distance triangle must be maintained at the proposed driveway entrance.
   •   All landscaping within the sight triangle must be trimmed to a maximum height of three
       feet for 15 feet from the driveway.

Commissioner Anderson stated that she drove by the subject property, and the road will be busier
during services at the neighboring church. In response to her question, Ms. Glende reported that
the driveway must be set back five feet from the fence and the applicant had proposed a distance
of six feet. The applicant had indicated that they will ensure the sight triangle is maintained, but
questions about specific trees should be directed to the applicant during the Business Session.

Staff findings were as follows:

   •   While the lot had sufficient width to accommodate a circular driveway, the applicant had
       indicated that it would result in unnecessary cost, removal of existing landscaping, and
       disruption to the site.
   •   A second, separate driveway approach would minimize site disturbance, reduce project
       costs, and preserve existing vegetation.
   •   The City Council may grant exceptions to driveway standards in cases where unusual
       topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions exist.
   •   Based on the applicant’s narrative and Site Plan, the request demonstrated the presence of
       aesthetic and site-related constructs that may justify consideration of an exception.

Commissioner Anderson asked if “driveway” was defined in City Code. Mr. Spung stated that a
driveway is anything that provides vehicle access and has a curb cut.

Ms. Glende reported that Staff recommended approval with the conditions outlined in the Staff
Report.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         2
Commissioner Mills asked if Staff had calculated the amount of impermeable surface for the
second driveway versus a circular approach and noted that it may be to the City’s advantage to
allow the second driveway. Ms. Glende reported that the applicant’s narrative included a statement
that the proposal would have less concrete and be more aesthetically pleasing. Impermeable
surface is only measured on properties within the Sensitive Lands Overlay, but all lot coverage
requirements had been met. Commissioner Mills stated that the applicant should be encouraged
to keep all existing trees if possible.

Commissioner Shelton remarked that it may be prudent to modify City Code to remove the
requirement for a circular drive approach; this item required a lot of overhead and review simply
because the two items were not tied together. Chair Mills agreed. Off-street parking has been the
biggest barrier to ADUs, and the City should support creative solutions. Ms. Glende stated that
she had spoken with two other residents who had similar questions about driveways.

Planner III, Sheldon Howa reviewed Project CUP 2026-005, a CUP request for the Hi-Mart
convenience store at 7825 South Highland Drive in the Neighborhood Commercial (“NC”) Zone.
Hours of operation will be 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday, and the business
anticipates one to two employees and 50 customers per day. No exterior, interior, or site changes
were proposed.

Products sold will include:

   •   Prepackaged food and drink options for onsite and takeaway consumption.
   •   Staple grocery items such as milk, bread, eggs, and other products requested by customers.
   •   Household sundries.
   •   Tobacco products as allowed by the applicant’s General Tobacco Retailer license.

Site photographs and the Site Plan were reviewed. The subject property is part of the
approximately 24,000 square foot Cottonwood Creek commercial center, which houses a mix of
uses including gym, restaurant, personal care, professional offices, and medical/therapy services.
All tenants share access and parking. The business will occupy 1,280 square feet, approximately
800 square feet of which will be used as the front-of-house retail area.

Staff review determined that as proposed, the request met all City standards. No adverse impacts
to public health, safety, or general welfare were anticipated. Per Utah State Code, conditional uses
must be approved unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate identified
detrimental impacts.

The State offers two tobacco licenses, General Tobacco Retailer for businesses that sell tobacco
as an accessory use and Tobacco Specialty Shop for businesses that primarily marketed as tobacco
retailers. In response to a question, Mr. Howa reported that THC and CBD sales require a separate
license. He did not have information on kratom or intake gas licensing requirements. In response
to a follow-up question, he reported that City Code does not differentiate between general tobacco
retailers and tobacco specialty shops but includes the State definition of Specialty Tobacco Shop.
Businesses that do not fall within that definition would be considered a general retailer.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         3
Mr. Howa confirmed with Salt Lake County that the applicant had obtained a General Tobacco
Retailer license. They initially applied for a Tobacco Specialty Shop license and were denied.
Both licenses allow the retailer to sell the same items, but the General Tobacco Retailer license
limits tobacco to 35% of total quarterly sales. Devices used to consume tobacco can be sold under
either license.

Enforcement was discussed. Mr. Howa reported that Salt Lake County indicated that they rely on
municipalities to enforce regulations, and municipalities can shutter the store for violations. It was
noted that to do so, the municipality would need to obtain an accounting of the store’s sales.
Mr. Howa clarified that there are two limiting criteria:

       1.      Tobacco sales cannot exceed 35% of total quarterly sales.

       2.      Less than 20% of floor or storage area may be dedicated to tobacco products.

Commissioner Mills asked about exterior advertising. Mr. Howa stated that he had not researched
State requirements. Commissioner Mills remarked that he did not believe they were allowed to
advertise cigarette and cigar sales as was currently on the temporary sign. In response to a question
raised by Chair Steinman, Mr. Howa reported that an application for permanent signage had not
been received. Chair Steinman stated that it was apparent the business wanted to operate as a
tobacco specialty shop but was moving forward as a tobacco retailer.

Mr. Howa reported that per the International Transportation Engineers (“ITE”) Parking Generation
Manual, the entire site requires 92 parking stalls. A total of 115 stalls were available, so that
requirement had been met.

Public notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting, including individual
notices to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. One written comment was
received expressing concern about kratom, cigarette wrappers, nitrous oxide and other products.

Interior photographs were reviewed. Mr. Howa reported that the inventory appeared to be
presented as it would in a tobacco specialty shop, not a convenience store. He spoke with the
applicant regarding the matter, and they indicated willingness to reduce the amount of tobacco
sales and remove the glass display cases to comply with City requirements. However, he was
unwilling to completely remove tobacco products from inventory.

Compliance was discussed. Mr. Howa reported that Salt Lake County’s enforcement is entirely
complaint-based. The City’s system is also complaint-based unless Staff is specifically instructed
to monitor the store. Commissioner Anderson noted that the process would be the same as with
any code violation. Commissioner Barnes asked if the percentage of sales revenue from tobacco
could be monitored through sales tax reporting and noted that monitoring could become very labor-
intensive for the City.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Shelton, Mr. Howa confirmed that 80% of the
store would need to be stocked with non-tobacco products. Commissioner Anderson asked if they



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                           4
would have laundry detergent in the glass display cases. It was noted that the display cases were
brought in by the applicant, not left by a previous tenant. The store was not yet fully populated
and the applicant had indicated that he was working to bring in more shelving and packaged goods.
In response to a question from Commissioner Barnes, he reported that the applicant also owns Salt
City Cigars, which is a specialty cigar store.

Mr. Howa reported that it had been clearly communicated to the applicant that he could not operate
a specialty tobacco shop, and the applicant assert that it would be a convenience store. Staff
recommended approval of the CUP with the following conditions:

       1.      The applicant shall obtain and maintain a valid Cottonwood Heights business
               license.

       2.      The business operations shall be limited to retail convenience store uses as
               described in the application narrative.

       3.      Any exterior modifications, signage, or tenant improvements requiring permits
               shall receive City approval prior to installation.

       4.      Approval of the Conditional Use Permit may be reviewed or revoked upon verified
               non-compliance with City ordinances or conditions of approval.

       5.      Tobacco sales and product displays shall remain accessory to the primary retail use
               and shall not expand in a manner that would cause the business to meet the
               definition of a Tobacco Specialty Shop under Utah Code Section 10-8-41.6. If the
               use is determined to meet this definition, it shall be considered a violation of City
               zoning regulations and this Conditional Use approval and may be subject to review,
               enforcement, or revocation.

Chair Steinman stated that the applicant should be asked about the differences between this store
and Salt City Cigars. Utah Criminal Code Title 76 specifies that the kratom shown in a photo he
took at the shop earlier in the day is illegal, effective May 7, 2025. Attention needs to be paid to
the gray areas specialty tobacco shops sometimes operate in, as well as who will audit the business
and how much Staff time is required to ensure compliance. Mr. Howa stated that the applicant
indicated the location is licensed to sell CBD. It was noted that the product shown in the photo is
THC. Differences between CBD and THC were discussed.

Commissioner Anderson noted that the description of Convenience Store With (or Without)
Gasoline Sales found in City Code Section 19.04.680 mentions groceries and sundries but does
not specify that tobacco can be sold. Mr. Howa clarified that tobacco sales are a supplementary
use.

Commissioner Mills remarked that, other than some Red Bull and Coca-Cola products, nothing
about the store resembles a convenience store. There are glass cases in a U shape along the outside
walls, and every gray area substance is sold there. Commissioner Steinman stated that it would be
a liability for the City.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         5
Commissioner Steinman asked if detailed information was available on how the use was defined
for Salt City Cigars. Mr. Howa stated that he could not locate the application, but the business
license was issued for a tobacco outlet. Commissioner Steinman stated that it will be difficult to
determine compliance with sales volume. The evidence did not support the proposed use and
instead showed an intended use that had been denied by the State. He asked how the Planning
Commission could either ensure compliance or deny the application. It was noted that, as
submitted, the proposed land use met criteria for a CUP. However, as shown through photographs
and observation, it did not appear to meet the standard.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Spung reported that it would be
reasonable for the City to request an inventory list to better understand overall business operations.
It was within the Planning Commission’s purview to require quarterly sales reports with separate
data on tobacco sales, limit tobacco displays to a specific percentage of the space, and require a
pre-opening inspection to ensure compliance. However, he noted that monitoring a single business
for compliance would be a drain on Staff resources. The State required approval, but very firm
guardrails could be set and the CUP could be revoked if the applicant violated those conditions.
The Planning Commission could not preemptively assume that the applicant would violate the
Code, but they could require the applicant to return with a more detailed business plan and floor
plan.

In response to a question from Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Spung stated that sales records could be
required after approval, but it may not be possible to require that information to be submitted as
part of the public record prior to approval.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the Planning Commission had been asked to approve the
business as a convenience store, which was an acceptable use for the property. The question of
whether the use is actually a convenience store was not before them. Chair Steinman stated that it
is an issue of public safety. If tobacco sales must be below a certain percentage of the sales volume
based on the land use, guardrails can be applied. Commissioner Shelton indicated that the State
had already put those guardrails in place.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Smith, Mr. Spung stated that a Maverik or 7-11
typically has a tobacco display case, but it is not wrapped around the entire store. It would be
reasonable to limit legal tobacco products to a seven-foot-by-seven-foot display area, for example.
That could be monitored if necessary, but future compliance was not part of the decision.
Commissioner Shelton stated that it would be fair to inform the applicant that if Code Enforcement
determines more than 20% of the business is tobacco-related, the CUP will be revoked
immediately.

Commissioner Mills remarked that the Staff Report indicated the use was not anticipated to create
adverse impacts to public health, safety, or general welfare. However, based on the available
information, those adverse impacts were anticipated, and it is the Planning Commission’s
responsibility to anticipate. The State Legislature had given municipalities discretion to deny an
application on that basis. Nothing about the business looks like a convenience store. It is a smoke
shop for which a State application was denied. Nothing about the business was modified; they just



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                           6
checked a different box. The glass display cases are not consistent with a convenience store. If
they install six refrigerated cases and offer tobacco products at the rear, it is a convenience store.
The applicant should be provided with a chance to prove their case, but he was comfortable
denying the application based on the available information.

Chair Steinman stated that there is more on the line from a land use standpoint due to the subject
property’s proximity to schools and daycares, and being out of compliance for even one day can
have a detrimental impact. There is a reason the applicant’s cigar shop is so far away from
Brighton High School. The description of convenience store does not specify tobacco, and
currently well over 25% of the store is tobacco or other detrimental products. He recommended
that the Planning Commission request a floor plan and proforma sales information to better
understand the business model. It would be a different situation if the applicant’s original
application had been for a general tobacco retailer rather than a tobacco specialty shop, as it shows
their intent when signing the lease was to operate a tobacco shop. Kratom, THC, and nitrous oxide
were present in the business, and at least one of those was an illegal substance. He recommended
that at a minimum, the item should be continued pending more information. Staff should research
how other communities and the State handle compliance.

Commissioner Barnes concurred with his fellow Commissioners but asked what evidence was
available that the applicant intended to violate State standards. Commissioner Mills stated that
well over 20% of the wall space is covered in tobacco products, which is a violation. Photographs
were available, and that type of evidence was frequently used for projects that had not been
completed. What was currently on display at the business could not be condensed into 20% of the
wall space. Commissioner Barnes remarked that the applicant had attested that they would meet
all standards, and the configuration could change prior to the store opening.

Chair Steinman stated that a convenience store was an ideal use for the space as it would be
walkable from nearby apartments. Chair Shelton stated that the issue was the word “use”. The
application was for an appropriate use, and that was what would be approved. However, the space
was being used in a way that was outside of the use for which they applied. He did not believe it
was in the Planning Commission’s authority to deny the application based on how they think it
will be used, but they could clearly state that not using it in the approved manner will result in the
CUP being revoked.

Chair Steinman stated that as the land use authority, the Planning Commission needed to better
understand the floor plan before designating the use. He asked if financial data associated with
the use could be requested. Commissioner Mills stated that the convenience store definition was
being used as a loophole, and he believed it was reasonable to provide the applicant with a pathway
to prove the use. Commissioner Barnes and Commissioner Shelton agreed.

The topic of enforcement was revisited. Commissioner Anderson noted that Code Enforcement
does not seek out violations but instead depends on reporting to identify them. Mr. Spung stated
that Staff could visit the property at regular intervals. In response to a question, he indicated that
Staff typically does not inspect retail stores prior to issuing a business license, but could do so if
requested. Commissioner Anderson recommended that it be added as a condition of approval.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                           7
Commissioner Mills recommended that the City consider modifying code to clarify its position on
these types of uses so applicants can better understand what is allowed.

2.0    CUP-25-005-Old Mill Demolition.

Mr. Spung reported that information provided in the Staff Report included the applicant’s
summary of donations and contributions related to preservation, as well as the general schedule of
information submittals. A flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law, and the
1996 Salt Lake County inspection report were provided in March. May submittals will include
maintenance records as well as information on rebuilding efforts and renovation considerations.

The application window for the City request for qualifications (“RFQ”) for a structural integrity
assessment was scheduled to close in early May. The completed report was anticipated by
September 1 and would provide a baseline understanding of whether the structure can realistically
be salvaged. All information will be compiled in a binder late in the year.

3.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:01 p.m.

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:01 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1     Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items

       3.1     Project CUP-26-004 - The Planning Commission will Review and
               Take Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit Request by Jared Park for
               an Exception to Allow a Second Driveway at 1720 East 6670 South.

Ms. Glende presented the Staff Report and indicated that the application was for a CUP for a
second driveway exception at 1720 East 6670 South. The homeowner was working on a building
permit to add an internal ADU, which requires an additional parking spot. The presence of mature



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                       8
trees and other landscaping would make a permitted circular driveway approach impractical, and
a second driveway would allow access to the proposed ADU while maintaining existing
landscaping.

Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Section 14.12.110.B.1 states that single-family dwellings
shall be permitted only one access unless a circular driveway approach is utilized. However,
Section 14.12.150 allows for exceptions: In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other
exceptional conditions or circumstances exist, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this
chapter may be approved by the City Council after receiving recommendations from the City’s
Planning Commission and the department, provided that the variation or exceptions are not
detrimental to the public safety or welfare.

Site photographs were reviewed, as well as a conceptual drawing of the location of the second
driveway in relation to the ADU. The driveway would be six feet from the property line as required
by City Code, and the internal ADU would be on the eastern side of the home.

The Public Works Department reviewed the application and specified the following:

   •   A clear sight distance triangle must be maintained at the proposed driveway entrance.
   •   All landscaping within the sight triangle must be trimmed to a maximum height of three
       feet for 15 feet back from the driveway.

Staff findings were as follows:

   •   While the lot had sufficient width to accommodate a circular driveway, that design would
       result in unnecessary cost, removal of existing landscaping, and disruption to the site.
   •   A second, separate driveway approach would minimize site disturbance, reduce project
       costs, and preserve existing mature trees.
   •   The City Council may grant exceptions to driveway standards in cases with unusual
       topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions, subject to a recommendation
       from the Planning Commission.
   •   Based on the applicant’s narrative and Site Plan, the request demonstrated the presence of
       aesthetic and site-related constructs that justified consideration of an exception.

Staff recommended approval of the application with the following conditions:

       1.      The second driveway approach shall be constructed in substantial conformance
               with the approved site plan and materials submitted with this application.

       2.      The second driveway approach shall not be constructed until an ADU license
               application has been approved.

       3.      The applicant shall obtain all required permits, including but not limited to a
               building permit and any applicable engineering or right-of-way permits, prior to
               construction of the driveway and ADU improvements.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                        9
       4.      The driveway approach shall comply with all applicable City standards for width,
               materials, drainage, and access, subject to review and approval by the City
               Engineer.

       5.      Any work within the public right-of-way, including the driveway approach, shall
               be reviewed and approved by the City and constructed in accordance with
               applicable Public Works standards.

       6.      The approval of this exception is specific to the site and proposal as submitted.

       7.      The internal ADU and associated parking shall comply with all applicable
               provisions of Section §19.75.050, including the requirement for off-street parking.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing was
closed.

The applicant, Jared Park, was available to answer questions. Chair Steinman stated that it was a
straightforward use, and the Planning Commission was excited to see more ADUs in the City.
Commissioner Anderson asked about the applicant’s plan for the mature trees on the site. Mr. Park
stated that the mature trees are set far enough back that they will not obstruct the line of sight, but
the shrubs will be removed.

Chair Steinman stated that Commissioner Steinman had a valid point in the Work Session. It
would be worthwhile for Staff to approach the City Council about modifying the current Code to
address situations like the current application, where there is sufficient lot frontage for dual access
points, as those approvals could be handled administratively.

Commissioner Mills remarked that other cities allow trees within the sight triangle as long as they
trim up to eight feet, and it would be beneficial to the City to adopt a similar rule. Ms. Glende
reported that she would discuss the matter with Public Works staff.

Commissioner Anderson asked for clarification on whether the Planning Commission was
approving the item or recommending approval to the City Council. Ms. Glende clarified that it
was a recommendation.

Commissioner Shelton moved to recommend APPROVAL of Project CUP-26-004 to the City
Council based on the recommended Findings for Approval outlined in the Staff Report dated
April 1, 2026. Commissioner Anderson seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-
Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Chair
Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                           10
       3.2     Project CUP-26-005 – The Planning Commission will Review and
               Take Possible Action on a Conditional Use Permit request by Sami Banizurail.
               The Request is to Operate a Convenience Store at 7825 South Highland Drive.

Mr. Howa presented the Staff Report and reported that the application was for a CUP for the Hi-
Mart convenience store at 7825 South Highland Drive in the Neighborhood Commercial (“NC”)
Zone. Staff recommended approval with conditions.

The Hi-Mart Convenience Store will be located in the Cottonwood Creek Plaza. Hours of
operation will be 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday, and the applicant anticipates
approximately 50 customers per day and one to two employees per shift. Products sold will include
prepackaged food and drink options; limited grocery items such as milk, bread, eggs, and other
staples; household sundries; and tobacco products. Tobacco sales are limited by the applicant’s
General Tobacco Retailer license through the Salt Lake County Health Department. No interior
or exterior site changes were proposed as the applicant would utilize the space previously occupied
by Beehive Blend CBD.

Site photographs and the Site Plan were reviewed. The subject property is part of an approximately
24,000 square foot multitenant building which houses a mix of uses including gym, restaurant,
personal care, professional, and medical/therapy services. All tenants share access and parking.
The business will occupy 1,280 square feet, approximately 800 square feet of which will be used
as the front-of-house retail area with the remaining space being used for storage, office space, and
restrooms.

Staff review determined that as proposed, the request met all standards outlined in City Code and
CUP requirements. No adverse impacts to public health, safety, or general welfare were
anticipated.

The State offers two tobacco licenses consisting of General Tobacco Retailer for businesses that
sell tobacco as an accessory use and Tobacco Specialty Shop for businesses that primarily
marketed as tobacco retailers. The applicant had obtained a General Tobacco Retailer license,
which limits tobacco sales to an accessory use, as is usually found in gas stations or convenience
stores. In this case, primary sales must be from food and other goods, not tobacco products.
Tobacco sales cannot exceed 35% of total quarterly sales, and less than 20% of the floor, shelf, or
storage area can be devoted to tobacco products. Tobacco specialty shops are not permitted in the
NC Zone and would be prohibited from operating in this location due to its proximity to schools.
There is a school within 100 feet of the property.

Mr. Howa reported that per the ITE Parking Generation Manual, the entire site requires 92 parking
stalls. A total of 115 stalls were available, so that requirement had been met, and no traffic impact
study was required for the use.

Public notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property 10 days in
advance of the public hearing. One written comment was received containing photographs of
products that are more consistent with a tobacco specialty shop than a convenience store, including
multiple tobacco products, kratom, CBD, and nitrous oxide.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         11
If the Planning Commission determined that detrimental impacts could be mitigated, Staff
recommended approval with the conditions outlined in the Staff Report.

The applicant, Sami Banizurail, stated that he wants to comply with City requirements and will
make any necessary changes. He owns a smoke shop at 1700 East and Fort Union Boulevard, and
those employees set up the new shop without knowing the requirements. Chair Steinman asked
how this location would differ from the existing business. Mr. Banizurail stated that the Hi-Mart
will offer what the neighborhood needs. They will sell items like toothpaste, toothbrushes, chips,
and beverages. He is also applying for a beer license. He is confident that the business will
maintain the required sales ratios.

Chair Steinman asked about inventory for the glass display cases. Mr. Banizurail stated that
employees moved the cases from the other store and he had not given thought to how they would
be stocked. He plans for the business to be a convenience store, but he does not have a specific
business plan. It will be stocked as a convenience store, and he will maintain a list of requested
items to add to the store. He did not have a floor plan but plans to have displays at the sides and
racks in the middle of the store. He will apply for a sign permit once he obtains a business license.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

David Kezerian stated that he lives on Forest Bend Drive, west of the subject property. Proximity
to schools should be a major consideration in the decision. The photographs that had been
displayed did not look like any convenience store he has ever been in, and the Planning
Commission should question whether the business would operate as one.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Steinman indicated that all uses are conditional in the NC Zone, so all applications are
reviewed by the Commission. Their role was to approve CUPs with conditions, and in this case,
many conditions may be needed. Tobacco licensing information is public, and the knowledge that
the applicant was first denied a Tobacco Specialty Retailer license showed an intention contrary
to the application. Community safety an important consideration in land use decisions, and a
specialty tobacco shop in close proximity to schools and daycares would have detrimental impacts.
Such businesses are allowed in appropriate areas as designated in Code, but would not be allowed
at the subject property due to its proximity to three schools. However, a convenience store in this
location would be an asset to the community.

Chair Steinman recommended the following conditions:

   •   A floor plan, business plan, and inventory lists should be provided.
   •   Regular unscheduled check-ins should be performed by the City to ensure compliance.
   •   If the business is found to be noncompliant, the CUP will be immediately revoked.

Chair Anderson stated that the additional conditions were being discussed because it is the
Planning Commission’s role to ensure that applications are not approved for uses that will be


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         12
detrimental to the health of the community. Illegal products were currently being displayed, and
significantly more than 20% of the inventory was comprised of tobacco products. Her
recommendations were:

   •   An inspection by Cottonwood Heights Staff prior to issuance of a business license.
   •   Tabling the item pending receipt of additional information from the applicant.

Commissioner Mills appreciated the applicant’s willingness to comply with City requirements. To
clarify those requirements, he recommended the following additional conditions:

   •   Staff site visits prior to issuance of the business license and at regular intervals.
   •   Verification that only 20% of the wall space is used for tobacco products, which can be
       evidenced by replacing the glass display cases with appropriate convenience store displays.
   •   Verification that tobacco products comprise less than 35% of the total inventory.

Commissioner Mills stated that it is an unusual area of the City, as three educational institutions
and housing are within close proximity of the subject property. Although the list of conditions
would be long, he believed it was good practice to provide specific direction.

Commissioner Smith agreed that the area would benefit from a convenience store, and he would
vote in favor of the item if the business was a convenience store. His concern was that the applicant
may have other purposes in mind. He appreciated Mr. Banizurail’s willingness to comply with
the City’s expectations, and he did not believe the Planning Commission should create
inappropriate expectations or place an excessive burden on people who are trying to do business
in Cottonwood Heights. However, as stated by other Commissioners, they had an obligation to
ensure that the business fits well in the community, and products like kratom and nitrous oxide do
not fit the community. Even if the business is a legitimate smoke shop, that use does not belong
in the NC Zone.

Commissioner Shelton asked for clarification on the Commission’s intentions regarding approval.
Chair Steinman stated that in his opinion, more information was necessary prior to voting on the
item. Commissioner Shelton stated that CUP approval would approve operation of a convenience
store, and the business must demonstrate every day that it is operating as a convenience store. The
definition of “convenience store” may need to be clarified. However, the question before the
Planning Commission was whether to approve a convenience store and what additional
requirements should be put in place to mitigate the impacts of a convenience store, not the impacts
of operating another type of business like a tobacco specialty retailer.

Commissioner Mills stated that he found Commissioner Shelton’s argument compelling, and he
would be in favor of approving the CUP with the previously mentioned conditions. Commissioner
Anderson and Commissioner Anderson concurred. Commissioner Smith expressed concern about
placing the responsibility of determining compliance on Staff without specific guidance.
Mr. Howa stated that he would be comfortable with the requirement providing that the conditions
were objective and not subjective.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                         13
In response to a question, Ms. Glende reported that the maximum window signage coverage is
15%. Commissioner Mills stated that the current temporary signage would not be allowed as
convenience stores cannot advertise the sale of tobacco products. It was noted that per State
regulations, the business cannot be marketed primarily as a tobacco retailer. Specific language
was discussed.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE CUP-26-005 based on the recommended Findings
and Conditions for Approval outlined in the Staff Report dated April 1, 2026 and as modified
by the additional conditions below:

       1.     A floor plan is to be provided to Staff.

       2.     A site plan is to be provided to Staff.

       3.     A site inspection is required prior to issuance of a business license to verify
              compliance with City and State statutes.

       4.     Regular, unscheduled site visits will be performed by City Staff to ensure
              continued compliance.

       5.     Exterior signage and marketing materials may not market the business as a
              tobacco retailer.

Commissioner Shelton seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Lugo-Yes; Chair
Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of March 4, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

Commissioner Anderson moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented.
Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Anderson moved to ADJOURN the Business Meeting. Commissioner Mills
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at 6:59 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                                   14
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, April 1, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/01/26                               15
