                                                                                 ~                 1 4'/,
                                                                                     ~ 0,,.,,,..,.,,,.,,.,,
                                                                                           ~{n~ood..,,,.,..,Heights




Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting IZl   Work Session IZl   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes □ No IZl Undetermined D
                         Denied □ Approved ~ Con inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: _ _ _    __,; ;BJ_

Agendas -Agendas for May 5, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 4/7/2026 and 4/21/2026.


CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING


3.0    STAFF REPORTS
3a.    Tentative Budget Discussion Scott Jurges
3b.    Public Safety Employee Contribution Rate Adjustment Cienna Brummel
3c.    Mountview Park Splash Pad - Drought Discussion Jared Gerber


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

4.0    Action and Disclosure Items
4.1    Resolution 2026-27
4.2    Resolution 2026-28
4.3    Intended Statement by the City's Budget Officer that the Tentative Budget for
       FY 2026-27 Includes a Proposed Property Tax Rate Increase.
4.4    Statement of Budget Officer that the tentative budget includes a proposed property tax
       mcrease.
4.5    The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a Property Tax Impact
       Schedule as a separate document from other budget documents.
4.6    Resolution 2026-29
4.7    The City intends to make a statement that the City is considering levying a tax rate that
       exceeds its certified tax rate , the approximate dollar amount and purpose for additional
       ad valorem tax revenue that would be generated by the proposed tax rate increase, the
       approximate percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue for the City based on the
       proposed tax rate increase the City will provide notice of and conduct a public hearing at
      which members of the public will have the opportunity to provide comments on the
      proposed tax rate increase.
4.8   Statement of the Budget Officer or City Manager pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 59-2-
      919(4)(b).
4.9   Resolution 2026-30
                   ~ , - . : ---lll(J( ; f \   I




                         Cottonwood Heights
                         Cuy brmym 1hr m11yo111




                        AGENDAS

                       May 5, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, in the Cottonwood Heights
City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The
public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting
to https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.      l.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.      REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.      STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or for staffto briJ1g the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                    a. Tentative Budget Discussion
                        Finance Director Seo/I Jurges (60 min.)
                    b. Public Safety Employee Contribution Rate Adjustment - URS
                        Administrative Services Manager Cienna Brummel (20 min.)
                    c. Mountview Park Splash Pad - Drought Discussion
                         City Manager Jared Gerber (20 min.)


              4.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                      a. Creek Road Crosswalk Study Open House - Wednesday, May 6th at
                         Oakdale Elementary from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
                      b. Public Works Open House for Residents - Wednesday, May 20th from
                         5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the Public Works Building
                      c. Shred Event - Monday, June 1, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside
                         Plaza (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit)
                      d. CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to
                         12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                      e. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026

                     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Community
                      Calendar
5.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

6.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                    ~    ----r;~l,,lf ~ '

                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                          City between the cn11y o11s


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, May 5, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not lo exceed sixty minutes/or citizen comment. "(Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (BJ) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do no/ a/lend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit wrilfen comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are submitted timely will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     ACTION AND DISCLOSURE ITEMS
               4.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-27 Authorizing and Clarifying Certain
                       Retirement Contributions and Benefits.
                       (The City provides retirement contributions to its qualifying officers and
                       employees through its participation in the Utah Retirement Systems. URS recently
                       has modified certain of its policies and procedures governing participation in its
                       retirement programs or has advised the City to adopt certain pertinent
                       clar{fications to its own internal policies and procedures concerning its retirement
      benefits. This resolution will accomplish those authorizations and clarifications.)
4.2   Consideration ofResolution 2026-28 Acknowledging the filing of the
      Tentative Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-27 Prepared by City's Budget
      Officer (the "Budget Officer") Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-6-111 ;
      Adopting the Tentative Budget Subject to Further Review and
      Consideration by the Council; Establishing the Date, Time and Place for a
      Public Hearing on the Tentative Budget Prior to Adoption of the Final
      Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 Subject to the Requirements of UTAH
      CODE ANN. §§59-2-919 and 59-2-924; Ordering Publication of Notices as
      Required by Law; and Ordering the Tentative Budget to be Available for
      Public Inspection in the office of the City Recorder and on the City's
      Website for at Least Ten Days Prior to Adoption of the Final Budget.
      (By this resolution the Council will undertake the specified, and related, actions
      as part of its budgetary process for the upcoming FY 2026-27 budget cycle).
4.3   Intended Statement by the City's Budget Officer that the Tentative Budget
      for FY 2026-27 Includes a Proposed Property Tax Rate Increase.
      (Scott Jurges, the city's Budget Officer, intends to state that the City's tentative
      budget for FY 2026-27 includes a property tax rate increase, as required by
      statute).
4.4   Statement of Budget Officer that the tentative budget includes a proposed
      property tax increase.
      (Scott Jurges, the city's Budget Officer, will state that the City's ten/alive budget
      for FY 2026-27 includes a property tax rate increase, as required by statute).
4.5   The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a Property
      Tax Impact Schedule as a separate document from other budget documents.
      (Mr. Jurges will present and make available to the public a property tax impact
      schedule as a separate document from other budget documents as required by
      statute).
4.6   Consideration of Resolution 2026-29 Acknowledging that a Separate Item
      is on the Agenda for the Public Meeting on 5 May 2026 Notifying the Public
      that the Budget Officer (the "Budget Officer") for the city of Cottonwood
      Heights (the "City") Intends to State to the City's City Council (the
      "CounciI") that the Tentative Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 Includes a
      Property Tax Increase; Acknowledging that the Budget Officer Made a
      Statement to the Council in the 5 May 2026 Public Meeting that the
      Tentative Budget Includes a Property Tax Increase; Acknowledging that the
      Budget Officer Presented to the Council, as a Separate Item on the Agenda,
      in the Same Public meeting, a Property Tax Impact Schedule Separate from
      Other Budget Documents, as Defined in Utah Code Ann. §59-2-924; and
      Directing that the Property Tax Impact Schedule Shall be Available for
      Public Inspection and will be Included as a Separate Agenda Item at Each
      Public Hearing Prior to June 30 at Which the Council Discusses the
      Proposed General Fund Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027.
      (By this resolution the Council will undertake the specified, and related, actions
      as part of its budgetary process for the upcoming FY 2026-27 budget cycle).
4.7   The City intends to make a statement that the City is considering levying a
      tax rate that exceeds its certified tax rate, the approximate dollar amount of
      and purpose for additional ad va!orem tax revenue that would be generated
      by the proposed tax rate increase, the approximate percentage increase in
      ad valorem tax revenue for the City based on the proposed tax increase, and
      that if the City proceeds with the proposed tax rate increase the City will
      provide notice of and conduct a public hearing at which members of the
                    public will have an opportunity to provide comments on the proposed tax
                    rate increase.
                     (A City officer will make this statement in connection with the City's tentative
                     budget for FY 2026-27 which includes a property tax rate increase, as required by
                     statute).
           4.8       Statement of the Budget Officer or City Manager pursuant to UTAH CODE
                     ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b).
                     (The City 's Budget Officer or City Manager will make this statement in connection
                     with the City's tentative budget for FY 2026-27, which includes a property tax
                     rate increase, as required by statute).
           4.9       Consideration of Resolution 2026-30 Acknowledging that a Separate Item
                     is Included on the Agenda for the 5 May 2026 Public Meeting Notifying the
                     Public that the City's Budget Officer (the "Budget Officer") or Manager
                     ("City Manager") Intends to Make a Statement as Required by UTAH CODE
                     ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b); Further Acknowledging that the Budget Officer or
                     City Manager Made the Statement as Required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-
                     2-919(4)(b) in the 5 May 2026 Public Meeting, Setting the Date, Time and
                     Place of the Public Hearing on the Proposed Property Tax Increase as
                     Required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919; and Directing the City Manager
                     or Designee to Send a Notice Before l June 2026 to the Utah State Tax
                     Commission (the " Tax Commission") and the Salt Lake County Auditor (the
                     "County Auditor") Stating that the City is Considering a Property Tax
                     Increase and the Date, Time and Place of the Public Hearing Required by
                     UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919.


            5.0      CONSENTCALENDAR
            5.1      Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                     Meetings of April 7, 2026, and April 21, 2026.

            6.0      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                                 PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there wiU be a period
not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are
present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
speakers will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
the public meeting.
On Thursday, April 30, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the jiw,t foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The agendas were also posted on the City's website at
wwH·. c/1.utah. gov and the Utah Public Notice website at ht1p:l/p11111.11/ah.gor .

DATED this 30'" day of April 2026                              Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801 -944-
7015 or recorder@ich.utah.gor, at least two business days before !he meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                       ottonwood Heights
                      Cuy """"m the r,m:,0111




                MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 4/7/2026 and 4/21/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEYARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council
                           Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara f!iggins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems
                           Administrator, Alex Earl; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Battalion Chief,_ Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Benn-ion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance and Citizen
Comment Period wou_ld be followed by two proclam-ations.

Two Action Items were on the agenda. Item 4.1 was Consideration of Proclamation 2026-01
Celebrating Arbor Day. lt will be the 50th anniversary of Arbor Day. She thanked Planner III,
Maverick Yeh~-for his efforts in obtaining the Tree City USA recognition from the Arbor Day
Foundation. Item 4.2 was Consideration of Proclamation 2026-02 Designating Public Works
Week.

Action Item 5.1 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-18 Approving and Ratifying a Grant
Agreement with tl1e U.S. Department of Transportation. By this agreement, the Federal Highway
Administration ("FHW A") will provide $400,000 in Safe Streets and Roads for All ("SS4A")
funding conditioned on a $100,000 City match.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, reported that the City applied for two grants approximately
two years previously, but they were held up due to changes related to the federal election. The
funding was now available and could be used to complete a safety action plan for the entire City.
The City match was a percentage, and they would only be required to match $100,000 if the entire
grant was used. If approved by the City Council and finalized by the FHWA, they could then
move forward with engaging an engineer to perfonn the study.

Council Member Hyland asked if the resolution would require a budget amendment. Council
Member Holton asked if money was already set aside for the project. Mr. Shipp reported that he
did not yet have estimates on the study cost, but the expense would likely be paid through the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       1
Capital Projects Fund in the next budget year. Council Member Holton stated that he was in favor
of the project if funds were available. Finance Director, Scott Jurges, remarked if funds are
available at the end of the budget year, they can be utilized for the project. Otherwise, additional
funding may need to be appropriated. Mr. Shipp stated that they had not budgeted for the project
because it was unclear when the grant funding would be available. The City had several large
projects scheduled for summer, and the capital projects budget was tight.

Council Member BitTell asked for claiification on the supplemental planning schedule and final
report date referenced on Page 3 of the document. Mr. Shipp stated that the final report is due,
and funds must be spent within 18 months of the date the contract is signed. Council Member
Birrell asked if that was a realistic timeline to complete the Comprehensive Safety Action Plan
("CSAP"). Mr. Shipp stated that the timeframe was realistic, but it is a reimbursement agreement
so budget must also be considered. The agreement would not commit the City to the full grant
amount, but the City was responsible for 20% of the total project cost.

Council Member Holton expressed support for moving forward with the intention of using existing
capital projects funds. Mr. Shipp stated that two large projects will be bid out within the next few
months, and he will have more detailed infonnation once the bids come in. That will also provide
time to issue a request for proposals and detennine the actual-cost for the CSAP.

Council Member Birrell remarked that she did not see information on the supplemental plan
mentioned on Page 9. Council Member Hyland stated that it would fund the citywide CSAP that
the Council had discussed and help create a prioritization matrix so infrastructure dollars can be
invested appropriately. Council Member Holton added that it will also help the Council better
communicate with citizens who express concern because they will be able to provide specific
infonnation on where sa{ety issues fall on the list of priorities.

Council Member Birrell-
                            was also
                                 -
                                      concerned that state routes would be excluded from the CSAP
as her c::onstituents are affected by State Routes 210 and 190. Council Member Holton stated that
the issue may be cost. Co_µncil Mem_ber Hyland remarked that it had been studied elsewhere. Mr.
Shipp clarified that the study will also review and reco1mnend improvements to intersections. The
City cannot design or make those improvements, but it can study them. No specifics were available
as it is a general agreement between Cottonwood Heights and the FHWA. They had agreed that
the study area could be expanded to the city boundaries. If the agreement was signed, they would
have the option to move forward . Otherwise, that option would not be available.

Item 5 .2 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liaison to the
Youth City Council ("YCC"). Mayor Bennion thanked Council Member Birrell and Ann and Scott
Bracken for leading the YCC. Council Member Birrell would be stepping down as Liaison, and
Council Member Hyland would take on that role.

Council Member Birrell stated that it had been an honor to be the YCC Liaison for the past four
yeai·s. The YCC is different from a citizen committee in that it has its own charter, which states
that the advisor may be appointed from full-time career employees of the City or a community
volunteer. She checked with the president of Utah Youth Councils, who indicated that many cities
choose a staff member for that position to maintain continuity. Cottonwood Heights had the luxury

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       2
of Mr. and Mrs. Bracken voluntee1ing and providing that continuity for many years, but the City
would be seeking a new volunteer. Mayor Bennion reported that Mr. and Mrs. Bracken had served
the City for 20 years, and there would be a three-week application process for new volunteers.

Council Member Birrell stated that often, a parent of a YCC member volunteers as an advisor due
to their familiarity with the program. She was excited that Council Member Hyland was stepping
into the role ofliaison and hoped that Council Member Hyland would enjoy it as much as she had.

Council Member Birrell introduced YCC Mayor, MaryAnn Jensen. Ms. Jensen provided an
overview of the program, which is a way for the youth of Cottonwood Heights to be involved in
the community and learn what happens behind the scenes. They meet twice each month, typically
on the first and third Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Topics include educational meetings where they learn
about specific roles in the community. For example, Police Chief, Robby Russo, recently spoke
about his position. They also have service activities, inc luding making quilts and cleaning trails,
as well as social activities. They assist at City events, including Butlerville Days, the Easter egg
hunt, Monster Mash, and Light the Heights.

Ms. Jensen had been part of the YCC for four years since she learned about it in her eighth-grade
history class. She was excited to join and make a difference in her community. She served as the
Public Relations Officer in her first year and the Education Officer in her second year. For the
past two years, she has been the YCC Mayor. During that time, she had seen what she promised
at the presentation at Butlerville Middle School, and what she read in the charter was not what she
received. She hoped th!lt during the transition perioo, the City could have more youth leadership
through service. Dming her four years, she was able to make some events happen, but she also
had to fight to do so_.____She also had to fight to get t-shirts made. She hoped that the youth of
Cottonwood Heights WQUld not have to continue fighting for the opportunity to lead in their
leadership group.

Item 5.3 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-20 Approving Appointments to the Planning
Commission. Commissioner Barnes had moveo, so he would become an at-large member and
Commissioner Lugo would be appointed to his vacated seat. Item 5.4 was Consideration of
Resolution 2026-21 Approving an Independent Contractor Agreement for Event Planning and
Coordination Services. Item 5.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Amending Surplusing
Requirements to SUIJ)lus a 30-year-old vehicle.

Council Member Newell acknowledged Council Member Hyland for her efforts dming a recent
community event. Over 80 residents attended, and Council Member Hyland created an
environment that was conducive to conversation. The event was non-contentious, and residents
provided very valuable feedback on issues the City was currently facing. The way that she delves
into issues and creates a base of infonnation that allows people to understand the matter is
phenomenal. The event lasted much longer than planned, but was well worth it, and he had
received many phone calls from residents grateful for the event. Council Member Holton stated
that he had received phone calls from residents who expressed gratitude for both Council Member
Hyland and Council Member Newell.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       3
Mayor Bennion remarked that she had heard there were 170 attendees. She thanked Council
Member Hyland, Council Member Newell, and City Staff for their efforts on the event and
responsiveness to residents. She would like to hold additional meetings on the budget and
encouraged the Council to engage with residents on all topics, especially the budget.

Council Member Hyland stated that the event was organized by residents, which may have been
why it was so well-received. Only two Council members can attend a meeting that is not publicly
noticed, and she believed residents felt more comfo1iable discussing different subjects because it
was not a formal meeting. It was a beautiful night of coming together. Mike Hansen started the
meeting by reminding everyone to remember civility and decorum, which set the tone for the
meeting. It was tense at the beginning, but as they modeled civil dialogue, the atmosphere shifted
to one of collaboration.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.1   Central Wasatch Commission - Lindsey Nielsen, Executive Director.

Executive Director, Lindsey Nielsen, presented the Central Wasatch Commission ("CWC")
Annual Report. The CWC is an interlocal governmental entity that grew out of the Mountain
Accord process signed in 2015. Cottonwood Heights became a member in 2017. Since that time,
they have worked to convene the major jurisdictions along tlie Wasatch Front and Wasatch Back
to discuss issues such as transp01iation, recreation, environment, and the economy of the Central
Wasatch Mountains. Members include area cities and counties, as well as non-voting members
High Valley Transit, Utah Transit Authority ("UTA"), and Metro Water, and special advisors from
Solitude Mountain Resort and Save Our Canyons.

The CWC's portfolio of work has grown over time, including the creation of the Ski Bus Prio1ity
Access Program -in 2021. Since its inception, ski bus travel time has decreased by an average of
50 minutes~

The Central Wasatch Symposium is an annual two-day conference with expert panels, interactive
workshops, and networking. Over 200 people attended in its first and second years. In 2026,
Shoshone elder Darren Parry was the keynote speaker.

The CWC's short-term project grant program was created in 2020 and has disbursed hundreds of
thousands of dollars for projects such as:

      •   Trailhead bathroom maintenance;
      •   Backcountry ski shuttle in Little and Big Cottonwood Canyon;
      •   Maintenance of fixed-rock anchor hardware on climbing routes across the Central
          Wasatch; and
      •   Abatement of graffiti tags across the canyons.

The Central Wasatch National Conservation and Recreation Area Act ("CWNCRA") is the CWC's
cornerstone project. The issues that the Mountain Accord was created to address were still present

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       4
and, in many cases, had gotten worse, and the CWC in the process of modernizing the legislation
with a new draft.

The CWC is funded through member contiibutions and legislative appropriations. Since its
inception in 2017, membership dues had not increased, but costs and inflation had. This created a
severe deficit in the cun-ent fiscal year and required drastic measures. To address the issue, Sandy
City Mayor Zolanski created the CWC Funding Committee, which directed staff to analyze
membership contributions over the years. The quantitative analysis sought to standardize
membership contributions across jurisdictions, which historically had been based on the original
Mountain Accord agreement. The qualitative analysis considered the quality of life the CWC
provides to each member jurisdiction, its stake in the CWNCRA legislation, and the placemaking
value of a healthy Wasatch.

Cottonwood Heights' scores were as follows:

    •   Quality oflife: 3
    •   Stake in legislation: 4
    •   Placemaking value: 3
    •   Total score: 10

Based on the analysis, the total quantitative and qualitative contribution for Cottonwood Heights
was $59,000, a slight increase over the City's historic contribution of $50,000.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Ms. Nielsen reported that the CWC
received $250,000 in State funding for 2026 and $100,000 in 2025. State funding varies, and it is
difficult to build a budget around variable revenue. Mayor Bennion noted that it was $200,000 in
prior years. Ms. Nielsen stated that Senator Kirk Cullimore is a friend of the CWC who sponsored
their appropriations request. Council Member Hyland remarked that in a meeting with Senator
Cullimor_e~they discussed the need for the legislature to acknowledge that Cottonwood Heights is
a gatew~y city but it does not receive appropriations like other gateway cities. She asked
Ms. Neilson to reinforce that need, as it is an asset but also an expense to the City.

Council Member Hyland asked about funding for a Millcreek shuttle. Ms. Nielsen reported that
the funding was not approved, but the project was not dead. The CWC was discussing resubmitting
the appropriations request in a future legislative session.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that she supports Cottonwood Heights continuing in the CWC. If
the CWNCRA was passed, it would afford real protection for Little Cottonwood Canyon. The
designation would allow for things like timed entry and have a positive impact on City residents '
quality oflife by alleviating traffic issues and preserving the canyon. The CWC is instrumental in
advancing that legislation, and bringing it to fruition would be a remarkable accomplishment for
the region and state. Ms. Nielsen noted that it would also provide an opportunity for more funding
and resources.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                       5
Council Member Hyland stated that the City Council would like to be able to afford to continue in
the CWC, but that would be part of the broader budget discussion because the City was also facing
a large deficit.

        3.2     South Valley Chamber-Jay Francis, President and CEO.

South Valley Chamber of Commerce President and CEO, Jay Francis, introduced the South Valley
Chamber staff: Dana Reid, Member Services Director; Mi1iam Dixon, Director of Marketing;
Jayme Jensen, Vice President and Managing Director; Cory Covington, Vice President of Business
Development; and Diana Lund, Business Development Coordinator. He then presented the South
Valley Chamber's 2025 Annual Report.

The South Valley Chamber's activities are divided into five categories:       Connect, Educate,
Advocate, Grow, And More.

Connect

    •   Ambassador Committee: 25 members
    •   Government Affairs and Public Policy Committee: 25 members
    •   Small Business Committee: 38 members
    •   Tourism Committee: 35 members
    •   Women in Business Committee: 24 members
           o 24 Junior Women in Business participants, each of whom receive a $1,000
               scholarship

Educate

    • ~eadership South Valley: 27 graduates
    • -Business Accelerator: 14 graduates
    • Everyday Entrepreneur: 14 participants
    • Bu-siness Boot Camp: 4 events with 127 attendees

Advocate

    •   Roundtables
    •   Executive Forums
    •   Meet the Candidate
    •   Over 25 bills were tracked during the legislative session
           o In the Know
           o The Big Beautiful Bill
    •   Wasatch Front Regional Council
    •   Legislative Review with Senator Fillmore and Representative Eliason




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026       Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       6
Grow

    •   Connect After Hours: 7 events with 606 attendees
    •   Let's Do Lunch: 5 events with 728 attendees
    •   Meet the Member: 5 events with 396 attendees
    •   Women in Business: 10 events with 1,275 attendees

And More

    •   Golf Tournaments: 3 tournaments with 430 participants
    •   Titan Awards: 4 honorees with over 650 attendees
            o Small Business of the Year Award
    •   Shark Tank: 10 student businesses were pitched, and $9,500 in prize money was awarded

Mr. Francis provided an update on the South Valley Tourism Committee. In association with
Sport Salt Lake, they brought in almost 180,000 visitors and 41,000 room nights. The $88,000
investment had an economic impact of over $66 million. 2025 tomism campaigns included the
Winter Tourism Campaign and Staycation Campaign.

The top five sports events for 2025 were identified as:

        1.       USA Gymnastics 2025 Regional Championships
        2.       National Archery in the Schools Program 2025 Region One Championship
        3.       USA G~astics 2025 Development Program National Championships
        4.       Triple Crown Sports 2025 Western Internationa1
        5.       Jam On It 2025

In 2026, the South Valley Chamber will be focused, strategic, and purpose-driven. Goals include:

    •   Service and community impact;
    •   Business growth and economic development;
    •   Member retention and value; and
    •   Public policy leadership.

Mr. Francis reported that tbe 2026 Small Business Impact Award will be presented to Eight Settlers
Distillery and Restaurant on May 5. He appreciates the South Valley Chamber's partnership with
Cottonwood Heights as it helps extend economic development capacity throughout the City,
strengthen communication and trust, advance shared priorities, and strengthen the community
brand.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the South Valley Chamber's education offerings are so
valuable but seem underutilized and asked how the City can help increase participation.
Mr. Francis stated that he would love to increase participation in the Business Accelerator
program. It meets for two hours every other Tuesday, which can be difficult for small businesses.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026        Approved: _ __   _ __

                                                       7
The ideal program size is 25 to 28 participants, and there is also a scholarship available for that
program.

        3.3     Health in the Heights Committee - Chelsey Voss, Chair.

Health in the Heights Coalition Chair, Chelsey Voss presented the Committee Report. Her
background is in nursing and population health, and improving citizens' health and quality of life
is very important to her.

The Coalition follows the Communities that Care framework, a nationally recognized framework
that includes five phases. Phases 1 and 2 were completed in 2025. All board members completed
a three-part community board orientation where they learned about prevention science, risk and
protective factors, and created a vision statement and workgroups.

They were cmTently completing Phase 3, Developing a Community Profile, which include:

    •   Establishing workgroups and moving through workflows.
    •   Attending data workgroup workshops to understand Student Health and Risk Prevention
        ("SHARP") data and selecting coalition priorities.
    •   Writing and distributing a Community Assessment Report based on the above data.
    •   Forming a Resource Assessment Workgroup to identify resources and assess gaps m
        programming.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Ms. Voss reported that the SHARP
survey is completed every two years by students in the Brighton cone, which includes Brighton
High School and all scho_ols that feed into it. Public Health Coordinator, Sondra Stephens added
that students in grade six and higher opt in to the survey and must have parental consent. It was
previously conducted in odd years but will be conducted again in Fall 2026. The data is protected
and specific infonnation cannot be provided in a public meeting, but it is discussed in closed
meetings.

Ms. Voss reviewed Phase 4, Create a Plan.

    •   Develop a community action plan.
    •   Select tested and effec_tive programs, policies, and practices to target selected priorities.
    •   Identify and secure needed resources and funding.

Cottonwood Heights was officially recognized as a Healthy Utah Community in October 2025.
The designation is valid through 2028, at which point they will need to select new strategies and
reapply.

The following workgroups were established in Phase 2:

    •   Community Outreach and Public Relations


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       8
           o Promotes National Drug Take Back Day on April 25 and the drug take back box at
               City Hall.
           o Created a flyer to be used at community events.
           o Wrote an article featuring Health in the Heights for the December City newsletter.
    •   Board Maintenance
           o Wrote committee bylaws.
           o Created a mission statement.
           o Established board member spotlights to keep the board engaged.
    •   Youth Involvement
           o Creating a list of youth-involved organizations in the community .
           o Creating outreach emails for potential partnership with these organizations.
    •   Data
           o Attended workshops to learn how to read and analyze SHARP survey data.
           o Identified priority risk factors and behaviors based on the above data.
           o Writing the Community Assessm-ent Report.

Ms. Stephens provided an overview of the Coalition's chosen priorities. A detailed Community
Assessment Report will be presented to key leaders on April 30. Mayor Bennion and Council
Member Newell will be attending, Q_Ut it is not a public meeting, so all Council Members cannot
attend. Cottonwood Heights is doing well in many areas; there are ample opportunities for pro-
social involvement and it ranks high in family attachment and teacher/student relationships.

Risk factors increase the likelihood that youth will engage in problem behaviors. Based on SHARP
data, identified priorities include:

    •  Low Commitment to Schoo1
          o Youth often ~ay that they enjoy school but may not find it meaningful, which can
              lead to substance use or negative behaviors.
    • _Access and Perceived Availability of Su~stances
          o Youth often overestimate how many of their peers engage in substance use. When
             perceived use is higher, they may feel pressured to engage in the behavior. Patterns
              are also shifting; for example, nicotine pouch use has increased.
    • Parental Attitudes Favorable to Antisocial Behavior
          o A high percentage of students reported that they drink alcohol at someone' s house
              with parental permission. Others perceive that their parents would be okay with
              them dririking alcohol or stealing an item that costs $5 or less.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Ms. Stephens reported that the
p1iorities were chosen based on how the City compares to the state as a whole. Cottonwood
Heights is doing very well overall, but the priorities are risk factors that are trending in the wrong
direction.

Council Member Hyland remarked that nicotine is addictive and has a negative health benefit, but
it is not mind-altering like alcohol and marijuana. Regarding parental attitudes, she hoped that the



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting M inutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                        9
Coalition' s education efforts spilled over into attitudes about ebikes because it would be traffic to
see someone seriously injured or killed due to lax parental attitudes.

Next steps for the Health in the Heights Coalition include:

      •   Developing the Community Assessment Report.
      •   Establishing the Resource Assessment Work Group.
              o Workshops will be held to identify gaps in existing program and how to fill them.
      •   Creating a Community Action Plan.

Ms. Voss thanked Mayor Bennion and the City Council for their engagement and support. Council
Member Holton thanked Ms. Voss for her time and commitment to the committee. Council
Member Hyland remarked that there was a lot of debate and healthy skepticism about forming the
Coalition, and she stood corrected on how impactful it could be. She was grateful for the amount
of time Ms. Stephens and the volunteers hac! committed. In response to a question raised by
Council Member Holton, it was confirmed that many parents sit on the committee and membership
is very diverse.

Mayor Bennion stated that the Health in the Heights Coalition is an example of one that needs a
staff member to help it fully function, but it is also the epitome of what the City wants to achieve
in allowing its citizens to effect positive change. Council Member Hyland indicated that the tested
framework is one of the reasons why the Coalition is so effective. Council Member Birrell agreed
and noted that Ms. Stephen's salary is funded for three years through a federal grant administered
by Salt Lake County.

          3.4    Legislative Debrief - Brian Allen and Chantel Allen.

The above item was postponed.

4.0       -STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Sapling Sale Update - Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                 Spung.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the sapling Sale will
be held on Saturday, April 25 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at City Hall. The City purchases the
trees wholesale from a nursery and offers them to residents at a subsidized rate. In response to a
question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Spung stated that the cost is not affected by the Tree
City designation, but the event is recognized as part of the Tree City program. Details and pricing
are available on the City website, as well as links to infonnation on caring for caring for the trees.
Leftover trees will be planted in parks and medians by the Public Works Department.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Spung reported that the Parks, Trails,
and Open Space Committee had purchased 20 trees, and 70 trees will be available to the public.
They can be preordered or purchased at the event.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
Council Member Birrell stated that she appreciated Planner III, Maverick Yeh's work on the
website. Resident Helen McCarty will have a table at the event and help educate citizens on how
to care for specific trees, as well as waterwise landscaping and the Flip Your Strip program. The
Family Support Center will hold its Pinwheels for Prevention event on the same day for Child
Abuse Prevention Month. They need 30 volunteers to help set up pinwheels at 9:00 a.m. in the
City Hall parking lot. Mayor Bennion noted that the City recognizes National Child Support
Prevention Month and asked if the Council had an objection to the event taking place at City Hall.
Volunteers need to set up and take down between 2,500 and 3,000 pinwheels. Council Member
Birrell stated that it should only take one to two hours depending on the number of volunteers.
There were no objections. It was noted that the Health in the Heights Committee and Youth City
Council may be interested in assisting. Mr. Gerber stated that he would forward the infonnation
to various committees.

Council Member Hyland reported that 49 people attended the Localscapes class. Mayor Bennion
stated that some residents have suggested that the City should record those events and share them
to the website.

        4.2     Culture Division Update -Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins.

Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, reported that due to the budget shortfall,
Mr. Gerber asked each department head to evaluate their departments and make cuts where
appropriate. It was decided that changes should be made to the Culture Division, and the Culture
Coordinator position had been eliminated through attrition.

Ms. Higgins recognized that the City would not be able to maintain the same level of service
without those Full-Time Equivalent ("FTE") employees, but she had been impressed by staff
members~who had stepped up to help. Administrative Services Assistant, Lindsey Webb, has taken
over events and did a great job with the Easter Egg Hunt. Business Development Coordinator,
SydnefPierce, has assumed responsibility for room rentals and special event permits.

The Culture Manager was the Liaison for the Arts Council, and Staff was considering restructuring
the Arts Council as an advisory board to bring it into compliance with City Code. They were in
the process of detennining how to best empower residents and volunteers to be more involved and
were excited at the oppo1iunity to provide residents with more control over City events. Staff
observed the Bluffdale Arts Ad\/isory Board, which is volunteer-led and does not have a dedicated
staff member. Each board member chairs a separate subcommittee. The board maintains the Zoo,
Arts, and Parks ("ZAP") Grant, and members talked about how empowered they feel as residents
to be able to detennine what events are held in Bluffdale. Ms. Higgins expected the transition to
be slightly challenging, but the cuts were necessary to address the budget shortfall.

Mr. Gerber reported that there were some challenges and lessons learned. The Historic Committee
was now under the Co1mnunity and Economic Development Department, which was the structure
in most cities. Historic committees are typically more focused on preservation of structures, but
the Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee focuses on preservation of history. New room rental
fees were being implemented, and fees had been added for use of the kitchen and audio-visual

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026        Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      11
equipment. The fees will be used to fund ongoing costs for cleaning and equipment replacement.
A non-refundable cleaning deposit is now required to ensure that the carpets and furniture can be
cleaned regularly.

Ms. Higgins reported that the City had contracted out for Butlerville Days. Mayor Bennion,
Council Member Hyland, and Staff have met with the contractor, and Staff will continue to meet
with them regularly. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Ms. Higgins
reported that some members of the Butlerville Days Committee resigned in response to the
changes, but the contractor has been in contact with the remaining members and was in the process
of setting up a meeting.

Council Member Birrell stated that a citizen spoke with her about a skateboard competition that
was previously associated with Butlerville Days but was discontinued approximately three years
previously. She asked who they should speak with about reestablishing the event. Ms. Higgins
reported that they should contact Ms. Webb. However, the event may have been discontinued due
to liability issues. Council Member Birrell remarked that participants in the pickleball tournament
are required to sign a waiver, and she would like to find a way to hold events like this to help
teenagers feel like part of the community.

Mr. Gerber stated that the decision had been made to only have a drone show this year due to the
dry conditions and budgetary constraints. The City Council and Staff would likely receive
complaints because people love fireworks, but it was the right decision. They had asked the
contractor to hold a debrief after the event to discuss what was and was not successful and what
could be improved. The City Council could then discuss what it would like Butlerville Days to
look like in the future. Ms. Higgins added that they should also discuss other events, including
ones they would like to keep, reduce, or eliminate.

Council Member Hyland stat~d that-Butlerville Days may need to be reduced to one day. She
noted th~t Murray charges a fee fOJ its Easter egg hunt; residents pay $2, and non-residents pay a
higher fee. She had heard complaints that the City's event drew people from outside of the
community, so that could be an option. Change is hard, and staff reductions are particularly hard.
She appreciated Staff for looking critically at where savings can be found. At the meeting she
attended with Council Member Newell, when residents were asked directly about the services they
wanted to give up, the conversation changed dramatically, as they did not want services like
snowplowing or police cuts. _

Mayor Bennion stated that the City values the Alis Council, but it was a difficult time, and the
budget must be addressed. She hoped that in the long term the cmmnittee would be even stronger.

Council Member Birrell stated that it is important to align with Health in the Heights and the City's
stated sustainability goals, and perhaps 5,000 plastic eggs full of plastic-wrapped candy was not
appropriate. She believes that citizens would appreciate the City addressing whether some things
are suitable for the time we live in, and she found the Easter Egg Hunt to be greedy and out of
alignment with Christianity. Many of her constituents were glad that there would not be fireworks
this year. She appreciated that the City was gathe1ing feedback and engaging the public.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
Council Member Hyland asked for an update on the fireworks map. Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim
reported that it was in process. He would have a draft to Mr. Gerber within one to two weeks, and
it would be presented to the City Council at its first meeting in May. Mayor Bennion stated that
she attended Fire School in March, and it was a great experience.

        4.3     Annexation Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Bennion reported that the discussion was requested by Council Member Hyland, as there
are communities that would like to join Cottonwood Heights. Council Member Hyland added that
the Council needed to have a healthy discussion about what would be required of them. Mr. Gerber
stated that City Attorney, Shane Topham, sent out a memo on the subject earlier that week.

Council Member Hyland stated that she received a phone call on March 18 from a resident of the
unincorporated Creek Road East area, which was in the process of annexation prior to the
legislature's 2025 rule change requiring Planning Commission review and public hearings. That
extra step was a barrier to either starting a citizen-led petition or the city annexation process for
residents of the area. A further catalyst was the 18,000-square-foot home th~at caught fire, where
the Cottonwood Heights Police Department was first at the scene. Accessibility of first responder
services is an important consideration, and the area is much closer to Cottonwood Heights. She
received multiple phone calls after the fire asking about the status of the annexation. The City had
been through three recent annexations, all of which had different processes and created a burden
on Staff. The commitment to annex Creek Road East would include appropriations because
surveys will be required. Sandy staiied annexing only a few homes at a time, and that option was
recommended to her by Salt Lake County Council Member Laurie Stringham.

Council Member Hyland noted that the fire complicated things slightly because the land value had
changed. In response to a question, Mr. Topham reported that a city-initiated annexation requires
signed consent from 75% or more of the affected citizens. Council Member Holton stated that the
City initially considered individual households but discovered that property value was a factor.
Mr. Topham clarified that it requires 35% of the total land area, representing at least 75% of the
value of private real property within the annexation area.

Council Member Hyland stated that the signature of the owner of the seven-acre property was the
equivalent of 21 other households, but there was no longer a home on the prope1iy. Council
Member Holton indicated that it could be even more complicated because the County may not
have reassessed the property. In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Jurges
reported that the property owner could request a reevaluation of the property for the next year
because it has decreased in value. However, the new value may not be applied until 2027.

Mr. Topham reported that the 75% requirement in context to am1exations without a petition was
only gennane to whether protests must be considered.

There are four types of annexations that can occur without a petition:

        1.       The area consists of one or more unincorporated islands or peninsulas contiguous
                 to the municipality; and

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
            • The majority consists of residential or commercial development;
            • The area proposed for annexation requires the delivery of municipal-type services;
            • The municipality has provided most or all municipal-type services to the area for
               more than one year.

       2.    The area to be annexed consists of one or more unincorporated islands within or
             unincorporated peninsulas contiguous to the municipality, each of which has fewer
              than 800 residents; and
           • The municipality has provided one or more municipal-type services to the area for
              at least one year.
        3.    The area consists of an unincorporated island within or an unincorporated peninsula
              contiguous to the municipality; and
           • No more than 50 acres.
        4.    The area to be annexed consists only of one or more unincorporated islands in a
              county of the second class, which does not apply to Cottonwood Heights.

Mr. Topham believes the overarching issue is the new Utah Code Section 10-2-803, Annexation
Policy Plan. The City can only annex if an Annexation Policy Plan is in place. If the area is in the
expansion area of both Cottonwood Heights and Sandy, both cities would have to agree to an
annexation without a petition.

Council Member Hyland stated that to move forward, the Annexation Policy Plan would have to
be quickly drafted and adopted, and a citizen petition would likely be required. Mr. Topham
clarified that if the expansion areas do not overlap, a petition or agreement with Sandy would not
be necessary. Council Member Hyland indicated that Sandy did not provide services to the subject
area. Mr. Gerber noted that Sandy may provide water to a portion of the area.

Council Member Hyland stated that she would like to either have the City's commitment to the
annexation or direction to explain to the citizens that annexation cannot be pursued due to
prohibitive factors. Her preference was to consider annexation because of how quickly first
responders can reach the area. It took the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Department 30 minutes to
arrive at the fire. Council Member Holton stated that if the citizens were interested in being part
of the City, he was-in support of cleating a path for them to do so.

Council Member Birrell asked if Staff had the resources to supp01i the annexation. Ms. Higgins
reported that the previous annexations required a lot of City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen's, time.
Mr. Topham noted that there were three annexation petitions at once, all with different
requirements, and Ms. Janzen bore most of that burden. He believes one larger annexation will be
easier than multiple smaller annexations. In response to a follow-up question from Council
Member BiITell, Council Member Hyland stated that the estimated property tax revenue would be
between $125,000 and $150,000 per year, and additional staff would likely not be required to
service those residents.

How the previous annexations affected the Public Works Department was discussed. Mr. Shipp
stated that one annexation included some miles of public roads, but they did not have a large

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
impact. He would need to review the map to determine potential impacts of a Creek Road East
annexation. Mayor Bennion asked about the burden the potential annexation would place on Staff.
Mr. Shipp stated that it was their job and they could make it happen. A survey costs approximately
$8,500, depending on the size of the area. Council Member Hyland remarked that the City had
committed to citizens that it would pay the filing fees of $350 to $500.

Council Member Hyland reported that the annexation would need to occur prior to July 2027 when
the area will be automatically annexed into Sandy. She also preferred to collect signatures in
summer. Residents collect the signatures, but she facilitated the eff01is in previous annexations.
Mr. Gerber reported that a petition would be required as the area is included in Sandy's annexation
policy plan. Aerial and boundary maps of the area were reviewed. It is east of Willow Creek
Drive and includes Robidoux Road, 2760 East, and Etienne Way. Details of the previous
annexations and the history of the area were also discu-sseo.

After further discussion, the City Council determined that the City should move forward with
creating an Annexation Policy Plan with the intention of annexing the area.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Topham reported that signatures
cannot be collected until the Annexation Policy Plan is in p1ace. The process begins with a Notice
oflntent being filed with the County._A survey should not be conducted until the plan is adopted.
He noted that State Code states, "In prepaiing a proposed Annexation Policy Plan, the Planning
Co1mnission shall attempt to avoid gaps between or overlaps with the expansion areas of other
municipalities," and the area will completely overlap with Sandy's expansion area. Mr. Gerber
reported that the Sandy plan was adopted in January 2025, prior to the new rules going into effect.

Water and other services to the area were discussed. Council Member Hyland stated that she will
follow up with the affected citizens and inform them of changes since their initial conversations,
including the bond and potential property tax increase.

5.0    -REVIEW OF CALENDARAND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Local Sapling Sale - Saturday, April 25, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the
                Parking Lot at City Hall.

        5.2      Shred Event- Monday, June 1, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                 (open to -cWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit).

        5.3      CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 1:00
                 p.m. at Hillside Plaza.

        5.4      Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Ms. Higgins reported that proof of
residency in the form of identification or a utility bill is required for the Shred event. Mr. Gerber
stated that the box size needs to be specified. Council Member Holton remarked that some


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      15
Cottonwood Heights residents have a Sandy mailing address. That issue was discussed, and Mr.
Topham indicated that it should be addressed with the post office.

6.0    POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
       LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
       COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
       OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
       UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:22 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026    Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                      16
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Bin-ell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council
                           Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems
                           Administrator, Alex Earl; Publ1c Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Unified Fire Authority Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim

1.       WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.      PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.      CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Chester Frantz reported that he lives on Top of the World Drive. The Community Renewable
Energy Act was passed by unanimous vote. The Utah Public Service Commission also approved
the Utah Community Clean Energy Program and stated, "The general consensus of all parties in
the approval of the program is that the program is in the public interest." He distiibuted a handout
to the City Council outlining the program's value. When compared to Blue Sky, Utah Renewable
Communities saves residents approximately four times more. He understands the concern about
hidden subscription fees, but the service provides the value of 100% renewable energy. He
cun-ently uses 760 kilowatt hours per month, which generates $40 in external costs to health and
climate that society must pay. Enrolling in Utah Renewable Co1mnunities will save those external
costs. The program provides six months to cancel, and they intend to send several mailings to
educate residents. The website is also very easy to use.

Shannon Haley stated that she is a resident of Cottonwood Heights and a mother of two. She was
present to ask the City Council to adopt Utah Renewable Communities. Reducing reliance on coal
and gas will benefit our health and environment. Everyone experiences smokier summers from
wildfires, the shrinking snowpack, and poor air quality. Those changes affect children's health,
recreation, and the local economy, and transitioning to cleaner energy is one of the most direct and
responsible things that can be done to protect the Wasatch environment. Cities across Utah

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      17
including Salt Lake City, Park City, and Moab have already joined the effort. They see renewable
energy not as a luxmy but as a common-sense step to protect health, water, and economic stability.
Transitioning to renewables creates local jobs and strengthens energy independence. Opting into
the program does not force anyone to choose renewables. It simply gives residents and businesses
the option to support cleaner power. If the City Council opted out, that decision would remove
the choice for all residents and lock Cottonwood Heights out of a cooperative effort that many
cities are already joining. Clean, renewable energy means healthier air, long-tenn cost stability,
and a safer future for our children. Adopting this Act shows that Cottonwood Heights is ready to
take responsibility for its part in building a sustainable future, and she asked the City Council to
consider that in their vote.

Maggie Mills provided updates on Whitmore Library events for April. The Murray Senior
Recreation Center Jeannie Luke Choir's "Springtime in the Rockies" concert will be on Thursday,
April 9, at 5:00 p.m. A puppet show will be held on Friday, April 10, at 11 :00 a.m. The Babcock
Perfmming Readers will perfonn "Voices from RMS Titanic" on Thursday, April 16, at 7:00 p.m.
A Dia de los Nifios Party will be held on Saturday, April 25, from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. The
Bella Vista Elementary Art Show begins on April 13 and runs through May 15. The National
Diabetes Prevention Program's yearlong evidence-based lifestyle change program for people
diagnosed with or at risk of developing pre-diabetes is conducted by the Utah Department of
Health and Human Services on Mondays at 6:00 p.m. Other events are listed on the Library's
website calendar.

William McCarvill lives on Golden Hills Avenue and was present to speak on Resolution 2026-
18. Before grant funding was considered, he believed citizens were entitled to see a full workout
of not only the initial $100,000 expenditure but also lifetime costs to the City for maintenance,
repairs, insurance, etc. The City was expe1iencing financial difficulties, and he asked where the
$100,000 would come from and what would be cut to maintain a balanced budget and provide
ongoing support of the project over other deserving projects. He believes every "free money" offer
should require a similar disclosure, including projects like the shooting range. He asked for
informaJion on what it will cost the City to build and maintain that facility. Without that
info1mation~he did not believe the City was operating transparently. He asked that the resolution
be postponea until the public w~s provided with complete information. He also asked that the City
Council vote yes on Utah Renewable Communities. He generates 75% of his own electricity and
would like to increase that to 100%.

State Senator Kathleen Riebe spoke on Utah Renewable Communities. She believes it is a fantastic
opportunity that only 19 cities can be part of. The bill was sponsored by David Hinkins and Trevor
Lee, and that was one of the only times she agreed with Mr. Lee. It is a great opportunity to lean
into renewable energies and put their money where their mouth is, and she asked that the Council
consider adopting it.

Casey Stankiewicz is a Cottonwood Heights resident and a lifelong resident of Utah. She is a
mother and teacher. She was present to speak on behalf of Utah Renewable Communities, as she
believes it is vital to have sustainable energy. There have been times when her students could not
go outside for recess because the air quality was too poor. She is concerned about the health of
the City's youth and hopes that the City Council considers adopting the program.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
Ben Donner stated that he lives on Newport Way and was present to express support for the Utah
Renewable Communities program. It is obvious from the past winter that climate health,
specifically the Wasatch snowpack, is at risk from climate change. He would like to see support
at the federal and state levels, but did not expect it, so it was up to communities. It is an imp01tant
program, and he hoped that the Council would consider adopting it.

There were no fu1ther c01mnents. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.      PROCLAMATIONS

        4.1     Consideration of Proclamation 2026-01 Celebrating Arbor Day.

Mayor Bennion reported that it is the 50th anniversary of Arbor Day. Cottonwood Heights has
historically made sustainability a high priority, and she thanked everyone involved in continuing
those efforts. The April 25 Sapling Sale will be part of the City's Arbor Day celebration.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Proclamation 2026-01 Celebrating
Arbor Day. The motion was seconded by Council Member Bin-ell. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Council.

        4.2      Consideration of Proclamation 2026-02 Designating Public Works Week.

Mayor Bennion state_d that the Public Works Department does invaluable work for the City and is
appreciated. Public Works Week will be May 17 through 23 and will include events for
schoolchildren.

Council Member Birrell participated in the 2025 event, and the demonstration for schoolchildren
was so fantastic that she asked Mr. Shipp if the event could be opened to citizens of all ages.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Proclamation 2026-02 Designating
Public Works Week. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Council.

5.      ACTION ITEMS

        5.1      Consideration of Resolution 2026-18 Approving and Ratifying a Grant
                 Agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation. (By this resolution
                 the Council will approve the City's entry into a contract whereunder the U.S.
                 Department of Transportation will provide $400,000 in FY 2024 "Safe Streets
                 and Roads for All" grant funding to the City, conditioned on the City's provision
                 of $100,000 in matching funds).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. During that
discussion, they learned that the grant can be modified to any amount that fits within the project.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
The project has been considered by the City for several years, and the monies will be used for safe
streets.

Mr. Shipp reported that the $100,000 City match had been allocated in the Capital Projects Fund,
but they were not required to use the full amount. Mayor Bennion stated that the City also
considers ongoing maintenance costs.

Council Member Hyland agreed that the City does not have to take the full grant, but a CSAP
could help prioritize where infrastructure dollars are spent. She understands the budget concerns.
However, if the full amount had already been allocated within the capital improvements budget, it
was a win-win situation to move forward and allow the City to take advantage of the grant if they
so choose.

Council Member Birrell thanked Mr. Mccarvill for bringing up the importance of conducting an
analysis of both immediate and long-term costs associated with accepting grant monies. It is
burdensome for Staff to apply for grants, and she believes the matter should be studied p1ior to
taking time to apply for them. The CSAP will not require ongoing operations and maintenance,
and the Council hoped that it would save Cottonwood Heights money over time by providing
clarity on how best to prioritize projects. Safety should be the City's number one priority.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-18 Approving and
Ratifying a Grant Agreement with theU.S. Department of Transportation. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vo!e on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council
Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor
Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        5.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liaison to
                the Youth City Council. (By this resolution, the Council will approve the
                appointment of Councilmember Suzanne Hyland as the Council's liaison to the
                Youth City Council.)

Mayor Bennion reported that the City has a very vibrant and active Youth City Council. Council
Member Birrell served as the liaison for four years, and the City Council appreciates the
opportunity to share those experiences. Council Member Hyland would now have the opportunity
to serve.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-19 Approving
Appointment of a Liaison to the Youth City Council. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
       5.3      Consideration of Resolution 2026-20 Approving Appointments to the Planning
                Commission. (By this resolution the Council will approve the manager's
                reassignment and appointment of planning commissioners Garry Barnes and
                Rusty Lugo due to Mr. Barnes' recent change of residence from District 2 to
                District 3).

Mr. Gerber reported that a Planning Commissioner relocated to a different disttict, so he would
become an alternate and an alternate Commissioner would be moved into that position.

Council Member Hyland reported that applications are being accepted to fill three Planning
Commission seats as some tenns expire in July. In response to a question raised by Council
Member Birrell, Mr. Spung confirmed that there are openings for Districts 3 and 4, as well as one
at-large seat that is open to anyone in the City. The Planning Commission consists of seven regular
and two at-large members, and currently, only one at-large seat is fi!led. Council Member Hyland
remarked that the email sent to the City Council indicated the open positions were in Districts 2
and 3 and asked Mr. Spung to confirm that in(omiation.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-20 Approving
Appointments to the Planning Commission. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council
Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

        5.4     Consideration of Resolution 2026-21 Approving an Independent Contractor
                Agreement for Event Planning and Coordination Services. (This resolution
                will approve the City's entry into an independent contractor agreement
                whereunder Ballard Venues LLC will provide event planning and coordination
                services for the City's 2026 "Butlerville Days" community event scheduled for
                16-18 July 2026).

The above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-21 Approving an
Independent Contractor Agreement for Event Plaiming and Coordination Services. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes;
Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        5.5      Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Amending Surplusing Requirements.
                 (This resolution will amend the minimum bid, method of determining minimum
                 bid, and/or minimum bid amount specified in Resolution 2025-68 for a certain
                 surplus 1998 International "Command Post" vehicle that has failed to attract
                 acceptable offers at its current price).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above resolution would surplus a command post vehicle that is
30 years old and the City had been unable to secure a buyer for.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      21
MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-22 Amending
Surplusing Requirements. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Bin-ell-Yes; Council Member Holton-
Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

       6.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of February 17, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of February 17, 2026:- The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

7.     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      22
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and Business Meetings held on Tuesday,
April 7, 2026.


Tev-L Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      23
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton (via Zoom), Council Member Suzanne Hyland,
                           Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham;
                           Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo;
                           Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                           Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                           Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City
                           Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA ~-Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that Administrative Services Director,
Barbara Higgins, will lead the Pledge of Allegiance, followed by City Council Committee Reports
and the Citizen Conunent Period. Finance Director, Scott Jurges, will then present the Finance
Quarterly Report.

There were five Action Items. Item 6.1 was Consideration of Ordinance 463 Approving a Second
Drive~ay Exception at 1720 East 6670 South.

Item 6.2 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to Agreement for
Building Services
              -
                  for the City's contract
                                  -
                                          with Sunrise Engineering.

Item 6.3 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to the
Architectural Review Commission. By this resolution, Scott Peters and Jesse Allen would be
reappointed to the Commission.

Item 6.4 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain Property Surplus to dispose
of a Ford F-150 owned by the City.

Item 6.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-26Approving Entry into an Interlocal Agreement
with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for Participation in the Wildland Fire
Program. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, City Attorney, Shane
Topham stated that the City had two financial obligations in the agreement, one for $10,338 and
one for approximately $1 ,500. City Manager, Jared Gerber added that the $1 ,500 in matching or
in-kind funds is for UFA to clear the Wildland Urban Interface areas, and the $10,338 is the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026     Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       1
required Wildland Fire Program contiibution. Council Member Hyland asked for clarification on
whether the funds were already budgeted or would require appropriation.

Council Member Newell stated that if residents have concerns about wildfires, UFA will perform
an analysis of their property and the surrounding area. They will also pick up and dispose of any
vegetation that residents remove from forested areas around their homes. The funds are used to
help provide those services.

Mr. Gerber reported that the $10,338 is paid to the State for participation in the Cooperative
Wildfire System. If a fire were to occur within Cottonwood Heights, the City would not incur any
additional expenses.

Mayor Bem1ion stated that the Watershed Restoration Initiative and other programs at the state
level are leading the nation in coordinating efforts to reduce wildfire risk. Utah also partners with
the federal government in the Shared Stewardship Program. The programs are coordinated and
time-tested to reduce wildfires.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.1    Visit Salt Lake - Tyson Lybbert, ChiefSales Officer.

Chief Sales Officer, Tyson Lybbert, reported that Visit Salt_ Lake is a 501(c)(6) nonprofit
corporation similar to a chamber of commerce. Their mission is to promote visitors and tourism
in Salt Lake County. They are responsible for booking the Salt Palace Convention Center and
Mountain America Ex_po Center, as well as sporting and ski events for individuals and groups.
Most similar organizations are Destination Marketing Organizations ("DMO") as marketing is a
primary focus. Visit Salt Lake' s _primary focus is on delivering experiences, and they are moving
toward becoming a Destination Sa1es aiid Experience Organization ("DSXO"). Their three pillars
are recruiting, retaining, and activating with signature events like the skijoring event in downtown
Salt L~e City.

Mr. Lybbert reported on the impo1iance of Salt Lake County's visitor economy, which:

      •   Supports 56,300 jobs;
      •   Offsets household tax burdens by nearly $1 ,700 ammally;
      •   Generates $575 million in tax revenue; and
      •   Is a $6.15 billion industry.

Most out-of-state visitors to the county are from nearby states like Colorado and Idaho, but many
are also from Texas and eastern states. A total of 14% of visitors go to Big or Little Cottonwood
Canyons, second only to downtown Salt Lake City. Big Cottonwood Canyon is the number one
area attraction on TripAdvisor, followed by Temple Square. However, only 5% of visitor dollars
are spent in the canyon area.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       2
Salt Lake County had not experienced the drastic decrease in international travel seen by other
areas of the country. A large portion of international visitors to the area are from Canada. The
new airpmt has the capacity to add more flight volume, and its airlift is very competitive with other
destinations. South Korea presents high growth opportunities, as there is now a direct Salt Lake
City-Incheon flight. In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Lybbert confirmed
that the data was on people who exit the airport. Council Member Hyland stated that she was
surprised at the number of visitors from South Korea. Council Member Newell remarked that it
is likely due to the University of Utah partnership. Mr. Lybbert reported that the direct flights
began approximately one year previously and had reopened the Asian market, and the upcoming
Olympics would increase international oppo1iunities.

Annual visitors to Salt Lake County have exceeded pre-pandemic numbers. Visit Salt Lake
actively tracks 12 cities, of which Salt Lake City is number one. Hotel revenue had grown by 28%
from 2019 to 2025. In comparison, Phoenix ".Vas number two at 22%, and the average was 6%.
Denver and Los Angeles had not yet exceeded pre-pandemic numbers. Salt Lake County' s growth
trajectory is largely due to investments in the airport, entertainment, and sports.

Mayor Bennion remarked that it i§ significant that 88% of travel to the area is for leisure.
Mr. Lybbert clarified that they use the tenn "leisure" for all individual travel, so some business
travelers also fall into that category.

Mr. Lybbert stated that people want to experience something when they travel. Even if they are
traveling on business~ they can visit Big CottonwQod Canyon, for example. People are interested
in those types of experiences, and Cottonwood Heights is uniquely positioned to offer them.
Council Member Holton asked about demographics. Mr. Lybbert reported that demographic data
was not availa_ple, but younger generations are typically more active and adventurous. Business
travelers may not do the same things, but they do value being able to see and do things.

Coundl Member Hyland stated that the experience element was important in thinking about the
Town Center. Travelers increasingly choose multi-sensory, story-worthy moments over
traditional sightseeing, and it was encouraging to think that the City could create such a moment
within the Town~Center.

Mr. Lybbert stated that to his understanding, the City was contemplating hotels in both the Town
Center and Gravel Pit, which would provide an opportunity to capture the 9% of visitors to Big
Cottonwood Canyon who do not stay in the area. Cottonwood Heights already has many of the
elements that need to be in place for a visitor economy to thrive, including a sense of place and
iconic expe1iences. Average revenue per room in the area is approximately $130, so a 140-room
hotel would generate $6.5 million in annual room revenue and $1 million in Transient Room Tax
("TRT") revenue. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Lybbe1t
clarified that the $130 per room figure is Revenue Per Available Room ("RevPAR"). RevP AR is
calculated by multiplying occupancy by the average daily rate and is how hotels measure success.
Actual room rates are higher. The distiibution ofTRT funds was discussed.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       3
Regarding experiences, Visit Salt Lake determined that visitors are looking for multi-sensory
engagement: What does the destination sound, smell, and look like? An example of a multi-
sensory experience would be being able to leave your hotel and experience the crisp mountain air
in Big Cottonwood Canyon.

There are oppo1tunities to work with USA Climbing to develop a route at the base of the canyon.
Council Member Birrell stated that the office space in the northeast area of Cottonwood Heights
is called Class A office space but some people who work in that arena·would disagree because it
does not have the walkability and residential component of downtown Salt Lake City, for example.
Mr. Lybbert stated that the City Council needed to consider what it wants the City to be, and
accessibility is important. Parking is critical, as are considerations like where people will eat and
what they will do. The visitor economy comes into the community, and the same elements that
make Cottonwood Heights great for its residents will benefit visitors.

Council Member Hyland remarked that in Visit Salt Lake's presentation to the Chamber of
Commerce, they indicated that drivability and parking were important assets for visitors.
Mr. Lybbert stated that, to Council Member Birrell's point, downtown is very walkable. However,
visitors and even residents of Salt Lake County avoid going there due to concerns about navigating
and parking in the area.

Council Member Birrell stated that cities in the Salt Lake Valley would benefit from a more viable
transit system. Mr. Lybbert agreed that reliable public transportation is very important and noted
that Visit Salt Lake had been involved with finding solutions for the Utah Transit Authority
("UTA") Ski Bus. Council Member Birrell indicated that it would be helpful if Visit Salt Lake
advocated for the State to think about transit in a more thoughtful way, as she believes all cities in
the area would be supportive of traQsportation alternatives. Mr. Lybbert stated that they discuss
the issue with UTA frequently and would be happy to support the City in those efforts. Council
Member Hyland remarked that it cou1d be like Steamboat Springs. You have to drive there, but
           a
they have wonde-rful !ransit system once you ate there.

Mr. Lybbert stated that Visit Salt Lake new branding effort was for America's Mountain City.
There is no other major city like Salt Lake City, and they want to capitalize on that experience for
both leisure and convention business. Regarding parking and drivability, it is important to find
workable solutions to improve the experience for both residents and visitors.

Experience ideas to bring people to the City include:

    •   Vistas and observatories;
    •   A climbing wall; and
    •   Adaptable event space.

Salt Lake City will host the Olympics in 2034, and Visit Salt Lake's marketing efforts will begin
in earnest after the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. The 2002 Olympics changed the city in many
ways, and they believe the upcoming event will have a similar lasting impact and legacy.
Professional sports will also be a big part of the city's future. They now have a hockey team and


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       4
are a frontrunner for a baseball team due to the existing mechanism to build a stadium. Between
three and five million visitors are anticipated for the Temple Square Open House to be held April
through October 2027.

Mr. Lybbert stated that Visit Salt Lake was available to help with inf01mation or analysis on the
visitor economy in relation to upcoming City projects. Council Member Birrell stated that it would
be helpful to have more information on how the intermodal hub at the Gravel Pit can encourage
visitors to linger in Cottonwood Heights. She is interested in transit opportunities, and there were
currently only plans for a 2,000-stall parking garage.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1     Economic Development Strategy Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Bennion stated that as they meet with the owner of the Gravel Pit and Town Center
development team, they need the assistanc~ of someone with experi~mce in that type of
development to ensure the best possible outcome for the City. Current Staff did not have that
expertise, so the City Council needed to discuss the best path forward. One option would be to
hire an Assistant City Manager with experience in guiding cities through this type of development,
and the second option would be to contract-with a professional to provide that service.

Council Member Hyland stated that she discussed the matter with the former Draper City Manager,
who was with that city for 20 years and has substantial economic development experience. The
City needs someone with expertise in public finance, economic development, and creating
Development Agreef!J.ents that will have the desired economic and community outcomes. He
indicated that if the City Council knows what it wants, it can very skillfully contract for certain
projects. A retainer agreement may also be a viable option because the contractor is only consulted
when their expertise is required. He also remarked that finding an Assistant City Manager with
all the necessary qualifications would be hitting the jackpot, and the pool of public employees with
that expertise is very srnall. He prefers to contract over hiring because it can be difficult to help
an employee exit when they are no longer needed, and in his experience, their duties tend to expand
in multiple directions.

Council Member Hyland's hesitation with contracting was based on past experience with things
like fonn-based code, which stalled, and the General Plan update, which was an "Anytown, USA"
plan that did not address Cottonwood Heights' needs. She was also very disappointed with what
the Town Center bond contractor delivered. If someone is brought in internally, they will know
about the City and be able to truly guide the Council.

Mayor Bennion stated that Cottonwood Heights has sometimes been taken advantage of. A benefit
of bringing someone on staff was that they would know the City and could be trusted to truly work
for its benefit.

Council Member Birrell stated that City leadership has had good ideas over the years, but they
were now in need of municipal financial wisdom to be able to make things happen short-term and
project out for the long-tenn. With transportation, for example, it makes sense to engage a

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       5
contractor who can work when needed and create continuity. However, the entire City is different.
If the Assistant City Manager had demonstrated expe1ience in redevelopment and municipal
finance, she would be in favor of pursuing that option.

Council Member Hyland asked Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, to
speak to the item. She had heard that Cottonwood Heights is a difficult city to work with, likely
because its ordinances were in need of updating. As Mr. Spung told her, it is like driving a 60-
year-old car that you cannot get parts for anymore.

Mr. Spung stated that his primary focus is on updating City Code and streamlining processes to
make more efficient use of Staff time. However, pending _projects and initiatives need attention,
and it is difficult to do both. The City's best economic development tool is its Zoning and Land
Development Code because that is the mechanism to get where they want it to be, and updating it
is a p1iority. They also need someone to help capture the City's vision of the future and execute
the portions that are not zoning-related, like seeking grants, building relationships with business,
etc. Someone who could navigate that arenct would be very helpful, but he did not know how
helpful they would be until the ordinances are put in order. It is a two-part process. The City
Council also needed to consider how aggressive it wants to be with economic development. Sandy,
for example, has four full-time economic development employees, but Cottonwood Heights had
no other staff members dedicated to economic development. He believes the City would see a
return on its investment in an Assistant City Manager, and the Council should consider the costs
of not hi1ing one.

Mayor Bennion agreedyith Mr. Spung. The opportunity was in the present, before the Olympics.
The Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") was moving forward with the intennodal hub
in the Gravel Pit. They had engaged an architect and hoped for it to be functional by 2028.
However, the o~ners of the Gravel Pit were not on that tract, and they also owned the Old Mill.
The Conditional Use Permit process to demolish that structure was taking up Staff time. She
believed it was an urgent matter. The City needed to hire an Assistant City Manager quickly so
they coul4 take on some of that work and free up Planning Department time to update City Code.

Council Member Newell stated that it is a two-tier effort. An employee will have a learning curve,
and a contractor could be working on the projects while the City Council makes the fiscal
dete1mination on whether a full-time position is justified. He agreed that the City needs someone
with expertise in economic development, but he was not certain that it was the right time to hire
someone, especially when it would be difficult to find the right candidate. They also could not be
certain that the candidate would have the same level of devotion to Cottonwood Heights. He was
in favor of using a contractor while the internal policies and processes are streamlined.

Mr. Spung presented a proposal his previous consulting company had given to Midvale in 2018,
which was approximately $225,000 to fully update their code within two years. He has the
experience and was in the process of updating Cottonwood Heights' Code. After that task is
completed, Staff time will be available to focus on proactive planning efforts. The General Plan
lists goals, objectives, and tasks that the City wants to achieve, but it cannot do everything with
the existing number of employees. The City Council needed to consider its priorities and how
long it wants tasks to take. Whether they decided on a contractor or Assistant City Manager, that

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       6
person could pursue grants and other opportunities to help the City. A lot of money is available,
but no one on staff had the time or capacity to apply for or administer grants. Council Member
Newell expressed concern about that person running into issues with existing Code.

Council Member Hyland stated that the consultant she spoke with also mentioned that Cottonwood
Heights does not have a marketing and branding plan. She asked Mr. Spung ifhe would prefer to
contract to update City Code or for economic development. Mr. Spung clarified that it should be
economic development, as code is his area of expertise and he cannot do both. It would also be
harder for a consultant to familiarize themselves with code and less expensive for Staff to complete
the ordinance updates. He estimated the cost for a consultant to update City Code at $400,000 to
$500,000. Mayor Bennion remarked that this was an example of how valuable Staff is and why
the City needs to invest in retaining them. Toquerville, Vernal, Midvale, Holladay, and Draper
have Assistant City Managers, and hiring one would allow Mr. Spung to focus on Code updates
while the Assistant City Manager focuses on the Old Mill and other economic development
opportunities.

Council Member Birrell stated that they would need to find someone with demonstrated experience
managing Community Development and Renewal Agencies ("CDRA") and Cmmnunity
Redevelopment Agencies ("CRA"). She agreed with Council Member Newell that most incoming
department heads have a learning cui-ve because they are unfamiliar with Cottonwood Heights, but
asked if he would be in favor of the position if the candidate had expe1ience in finance,
redevelopment, and securing grants. Council Member Newell stated that he was open to
considering anything, but he does not want to place a burden on current Staff or the new employee.

Council Member Hyland stated that although she requested the Agenda item, she was tom on the
decision. Her recommendation was _to compile a list of desirable qualifications and post the job.
If no suitable candidates apply, th~y can reconsider a contractor. The proposed structure was for
the Assistant City Manager to take responsibility for Finance and Planning, and Mr. Gerber would
focus 011 everything else. The goal was not just to add an expense but to add value. Visit Salt
Lake clearly indicated that the City is missing a value proposition because 14% of visitors are
going to the canyons, but only 5% of them are spending money in Cottonwood Heights.

Ms. Higgins pointed out that the City Council could move forward with both options: A job
description could be created, and the position opened, and they could also put out a Request for
Qualifications ("RFQ"). The Council could then make a decision based on submittals. Council
Member Holton was in favor of this option.

Mr. Jurges noted that if the funding for the position was dependent on the tax increase, no one
could be hired until after the Truth in Taxation hearing in August. In response to a question raised
by Council Member Holton, he confinned that hiring could take place prior to August if the funds
were properly allocated. The tax increase must be justified, and either the new position or other
expenses could be used to do so.

Mayor Bennion asked if the City Council would like Ms. Higgins to proceed with both options.
Council Member Hyland stated that she would like to first review the list of qualifications. Council
Member Bin-ell remarked that each Council Member should submit a list of their ideal Assistant

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       7
City Manager or contractor's skills. Ms. Higgins stated that the infonnation would help her draft
the RFQ and job description.

Ms. Higgins asked if the City Council was committed to funding either the position or a contractor.
Mayor Bennion stated that she was committed to doing so because the City was missing
opportunities for grants and economic development that need to begin immediately to ensure that
Cottonwood Heights is ready for the Olympics. Council Member Holton asked if the dollar
amount would be the same for either option. Ms. Higgins stated that an Assistant City Manager
would be the equivalent of a department head. Including benefits, the annual cost would be
approximately $250,000 to $260,000. Council Member Hyland stated that contractors are
typically more expensive as they have to cover their own costs. She was in favor of moving
forward, as the City was behind and the Olympics were only eight years away. Council Member
Birrell agreed that the City cannot afford to wait. Ch~nge is imminent, and not getting ahead of
the curve could cost the City many millions of dollars. She saw it as an investment, not an expense.

Ms. Higgins asked if the Council's direction"was to build the position into the tax increase. In
response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber clarified that funds could
be allocated to fill the position sooner, but the City Council needed to determine whether they were
committing to the expense for the next fiscal year so it could be built into the Tentative Budget.
Council Member Birrell stated that she did not want the budget to increase, so reductions would
be necessary elsewhere. Council Member Newell stated that he did not know if a reduction was
necessary, but the offsetting revenue needed to be built in. In response to his question, Mr. Gerber
reported that nothing had been built in. Savings from the current fiscal year could be utilized, but
that would counterac_t some of the cuts that had been made. Council Member Newell stated that
the expertise was needed regardless. Mayor Bennion, Council Member Hyland, and Council
Member Birrell agreed.

        4.2     Utah Renewable Communities Update - Planner III, Sheldon Howa.

Planner III, Sheldon Howa, provided an update on the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC")
Community Clean Energy Program. The Utah Public Service Commission ("PSC") issued an
order approving the program on March 4, 2026. The order addressed key details such as the initial
program rate and customer opt-out details, with more complex issues to be addressed in a follow-
up ruling. This allowed the URC program to move forward and started the 90-day clock for
communities to consider adopting the ordinance. The deadline to do so was June 2, 2026. During
that time, the URC board was collaborating with other parties to propose solutions to the remaining
issues. They were also in negotiations with four renewal energy contractors.

Council Member Birrell stated that her understanding was that the URC had committed to no rate
increases so depending on the number of participants, they may need to drop out of a program.
Mr. Howa confomed that the PSC had detennined a flat rate for residential paiticipants. It is
possible that the rate could increase depending on the chosen resources. The ruling indicates that
the $4 program fee will cover administration costs and develop reserves to mitigate project startup
costs, and they anticipate that rates will actually decrease over time. Council Member Hyland
stated that the fee is subject to annual review and can increase. Cottonwood Heights would have
a vote, but there are seven member communities that can vote to raise rates. Mr. Howa claiified

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       8
that only the PSC has the authority to raise the rate, but the URC can request that they do so.
Council Member Hyland stated that she believes it is disingenuous to say that costs will not
increase even if that was the URC's intention.

Council Member Birrell stated that the economic trend is toward renewable energy and asked why
Council Member Hyland believes that the costs will increase. She was concerned about her tax
dollars subsidizing methane-producing natural gas and carbon-producing coal, and the current
trend was toward solar because it is so low-cost. Council Member Hyland stated that it is about
supply and demand, but her primary concern was governance and guardrails. She had read the
PSC docket and listened to their meetings, and the State requires that the costs and benefits cannot
be outside of the participating customers. Her issue was that nobody knew how the costs and
benefits would be valued, and it is reasonable to consider what could go wrong. In response to a
comment made by Council Member Birrell, Mayor Bennion remarked that many data centers are
required to bring their own energy online and do not burden the electric grid. She then directed
the discussion back to Mr. Howa.

Mr. Howa reported that the PSC ruling established a flat rate of $4 per month for residential
customers, which includes a $3.88 program participation fee and $0.12 surcbarge for the low-
income program. The monthly fee is waived for qualifying low-income residential customers. All
RMP ("RMP") customers would be (:!ligible to participate except those on the Schedule 135 net
metering program.

Council Member Holton asked if the URC Board had considered a usage-based fee. Mr. Howa
repo1ied that to RMP initially requested variable program rates, but the URC determined that a
flat, predictable rate Would attract more residential participants.· Higher users will still pay a higher
electric bill. The rate for business users will be based on usage.

Mr. Howa reported that the low-income program is available to RMP customers with a household
income at or below 150% of the federal power level. Eligible customers can apply for the Home
Energy Assistance Target Program or RMP Home Electtic Lifeline Program. Once approved,
there is no charge to participate in or terminate the program.

Non-residential customers will pay a volumetric rate of $0.00609 per kilowatt hour ("kWh")plus
the $0.12 monthly slow-income program surcharge. For example, the fee for a medium-sized
office building that uses approximately 7,000 kWh would be approximately $42, or a 5% increase.
The fee will vary depenqing on tbe specific utility rate. Council Member Hyland indicated that
she spoke with Dan Dugan, who indicated that 20% ofresidents were projected to opt out of the
program, but almost all commercial customers were expected to opt out due to the cost.

Mr. Howa repmied that the PSC did not anticipate any fee increases due to the program structure
and initial reserve funding, but that was not guaranteed. Council Member Hyland asked what
participants would be paying for, if they would only pay for the renewable energy they use or all
energy consumed by the patiicipating communities. If the goal was to offset participants'
consumption, a smaller number of participants may pay for energy consumed by the entire
community. If all commercial customers were projected to opt out, residents would pay to offset
the cost of a downtown entertainment disttict, for example. She asked about the specific statute

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       9
language. Mr. Howa stated that to his understanding, participants would only offset the cost of
the energy they used. It is calculated based on paiticipants' projected energy consumption, not the
community's consumption. Council Member Hyland stated that it was an important distinction
because it would not be fair for residents to pay for other users' consumption.

Council Member Birrell stated that she had heard from constituents that they want the choice. If
a resident does not want to support cleaner air, they have that choice. Residents can opt out for
free in the first six months or for $30 anytime. The State had not previously advanced renewables
in such a significant way, and she believed it was a pivotal decision.

Council Member Hyland reiterated the importance of governance and guardrails. Utah Code 54-
l 7-908(3)(b) specifies that the clean energy resources can be approved if it does not result in the
shifting of costs or benefits to other customers of the qualified utility. Mayor Bennion stated that
the PSC approved the URC because the costs and benefits remain within the program. Council
Member Hyland pointed out that the docket indicates the URC had not come to an agreement on
how to calculate that. Mr. Howa reported that they were working to determine the evaluation of
clean energy resources across the grid.

Council Member Birrell stated that protecting residents' health was worth the nominal fee of $4
per month. Most government programs are not perfect, and many are inefficient. She asked the
Council to consider the opportunity to take a minor step toward cleaner energy.

Council Member Holton stated that after six months, the URC should have a clear understanding
of program participants and costs. He asked if the costs would then be socialized across those who
remain in the progra1n. Mr. Howa stated that that was his understanding. The costs would then
be reevaluated yearly. A renewable energy source had not yet been selected so it was hard to
determine specifics, but the PSC determined that the costs should not roll over to nonparticipants.

Mr. Howa reviewed the anticipated timeline. If the City Council adopts the program, RMP will
then begin the five-month process of updating its billing system and preparing documentation to
send to program participants. Residents will receive a paper notice with opt-out instructions in
November. Per the PSC, two notices must be sent separately from utility bills. The second notice
will either be paper or paperless, depending on the resident's billing option. The commencement
period begins on January 1, 2027, and the $4 fee will appear on participants' January electric bills.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Howa reported that, to his
understanding, only two notices would be sent. In response to a follow-up question from Council
Member Holton, he rep01ted that new homeowners will also receive two notices and have a six-
month free opt-out period. Participants who opt out after six months are subject to the $30
tennination fee. The fee for c01mnercial customers is based on their actual fee. Commercial
customers that consume over one megawatt of energy will receive a site visit from RMP. The City
is responsible for expenses related to the two initial notices.

Mr. Howa reviewed the ordinance details as follows:



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
   •    Per the Community Clean Energy Act, all cities are required to adopt the ordinance in order
        to remain in the URC program.
   •    Once the ordinance is adopted, all resident RMP customers will be automatically enrolled
        in the program with a six-month opt-out period.
   •    All residents except those on Schedule 135 are eligible.
   •    Program implementation begins the day that RMP sends the first notices. Two notices
        must be provided to each customer separately from the monthly bill.
   •    Customers are automatically emolled and can opt out anytime by providing notice to RMP.
   •    Circumstances under which a customer does not pay a termination fee for opting out
        include:
            o During the six-month cancellation period,
             o If undergoing bankruptcy proceedings,
             o If enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance.
    •   Clean energy resources can be acquired by RMP for the program.
    •   The PSC determines the program rate and can approve rate adjustments.
    •   RMP is responsible for billing customers and notifying them of rate changes.
    •   Communities that adopt the program are responsible for:
    •   Entering into a utility agreelll__ent. (Completed)
    •   Reimbursing RMP for the co__st of_providing two notices to all customers. (Estimated at
        $18,761.11)
    •   Contributing funds to pay for third-party consultants used by the Office of Consumer
        Services and Division of Public Utilities to evaluate the program. (Completed when the
        governance agreement Fas signed.)
    •   No other costs associated with the program, including termination fees not paid by a
        customer within City boundaries.

If adopted, the URC would pro\lide a new opportunity for all eligible homes and businesses within
the c01mnunity to choose clean energy through their RMP bill. If the ordinance was not adopted,
Cottonwood Heights would be removed from the URC and no longer participate in the Community
Clean Energy Program. The decision was currently nonreversible.

Council Member Newell stated that if residents could opt in, he would be 100% behind the
program. Council Member Hyland agreed. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Council Member Hyland confinned that it was an opt-out program when Cottonwood
Heights originally adopted it in 2019. Council Member Birrell urged her Council colleagues to
consider that fact. Former Mayor Weichers chose not to attend URC board meetings, but the City
had been a member of the program since its initial $20,000 investment in 2018. The community
is invested in the URC, and it aligns with the City's adopted Sustainability Plan. In her opinion,
their choice was to either abandon the URC or stay the course and allow residents to choose.

Council Member Newell would be in favor of remaining in the URC if residents were allowed to
opt in, but he was not in favor of making a blanket decision for residents. Many citizens do not
look at their bills closely and will not know that they have been opted into the program, and he
believes it is a trap. He would rather provide them with a true choice. He cares about ecology and


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      11
air quality, but he does not want to supp01i a system that tells residents they are in the program
until they decide otherwise.

Council Member Hyland stated that she had been characterized as being against renewables and
the URC program, but she was simply undecided. The costs and benefits need to apply only to
customers who choose to stay in the program so participants do not pay for commercial
consumption. She was also concerned about establishing the precedent that a government entity
can vote to subscribe its residents to a product or service from a publicly traded, for-profit
company. The program is well-intended and could be beneficial if it were opt in, but she agreed
with Council Member Newell that it would take advantage of human frailty. Participation rates in
opt-out programs are much higher by omission, and she was concerned that it would take
advantage of those who do not notice the fee, understand how to opt out, or realize the
consequences of not opting out during the initial cancellation period. She was undecided, but that
fact did not sit well with her. Some of the program's biggest supporters had told her that if they
could do it over, they would make it opt in.

Council Member Holton stated that a sticking point for him was that they would be taking money
from residents and giving it to a publicly traded company to build green energy generation that
will go on the grid elsewhere. His preference was to generate the energy in the community to
directly serve Cottonwood Heights residents. Mr. Howa stated that there is not a suitable location
for a solar fann in the City or Salt Lake County, and the source will be pushed out to the southern
Utah, Idaho, or Wyoming. They were considering the regional impact, not the impact to a specific
city, and the program will provide a structured pathway to create renewable, clean energy.

Mayor Bennion state<i fhat the URC had studied 14 projects, and three of the four that were chosen
are within Utah. The gri_d is interconnected, and it is important to add clean energy. She believes
that remaining _in the program would respect both the previous City Council that brought
Cottonwood Heights into the _program and residents_by allowing them a choice. If the Council
made the-choice to vote no, they would take that choice away from residents. She asked the City
Council if they saw a connection b~tween Mr. Lybbert's presentation on Visit Salt Lake and the
importance of experiences, the previous winter, and what the area was offering visitors if they did
not support clean energy.

Council Member Hyland stated that she believes that they do support clean energy. Steve Handy,
who was one of the original sponsors of the bill that created the program, wrote an op-ed in The
Desert News which indicated approximately 94% of new electricity-generating capacity added in
Utah has been solar. That is not due to a government mandate but because the market is speaking
and solar is competitive.

Mayor Bennion clarified that her research indicated that the clean energy that had been added was
through small Blue Sky program projects and Salt Lake City-specific projects, none of which
contributed to the grid. She understands the history of the bill and changes that were made due to
state politics. Rocky Mountain Power has no plans to add renewable energy to the grid. There is
a clear and direct connection between legislative choices and the environment, and that is why so
many residents had asked for the ability to have the choice. Council Member Hyland stated that


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ __ _ _ _

                                                      12
it is a very complex issue, and governance and guardrails matter. The cost is coming down, but
who pays for it is an impo1iant consideration.

Mayor Bennion reported that she hoped to have a vote on the item on May 19. That would provide
ample time for the Council to speak with residents. Mr. Howa added that the May newsletter will
include an article about the URC program.

        4.3      Butler Hills Crosswalk Discussion - Public Works Director, Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp reported that the Brighton High School Cmmnunity Council had requested changes to
the Butler Hills crosswalk, as well as a dedicated right-hand turn lane into the school. He displayed
aerial photographs of the school at various phases of constmction and provided a timeline of events
related to the crosswalk. During construction, Canyons School District requested that the original
crosswalk be moved to provide direct access to the schoo1, which was completed in 2021. In 2023,
new crosswalks were constructed based on the _planned school landing pad. The crosswalks allow
students to cross one lane at a time, provide a safe landing in the middle, and have a clear line of
sight to oncoming traffic. they also provide visibility to cars in all lanes of traffic at the roundabout.

A March 2026 photograph of the Butler Hills crosswalk was displayed. Mr. Shipp reported that it
was installed with Rapid Reflective Flashing Beacons ("RRFB") to alert drivers that students
would be crossing the street. New overhead streetlights were also installed on both sides. If the
City moves forward with the Bengal Boulevard project, the crosswalk will be modified to function
like the one at the roundabout with two crossings and landing area in between.

Mr. Shipp identified areas along Bengal Boulevard where therequested right-tum lane could be
located. The first option would only access a small side parking lot at the school, and the City
would need to purchase right-of-way from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The
second option would access the bus lane. - It would also require property acquisition, as well as
modifications to traffic_flow in that parking lot. The third option would require a bypass lane for
the roundabout and additional property acquisition. Mr. Shipp stated that he did not understand
the request. Staff review determined that traffic does flow through the area, and it is only
congested between approximately 2:30 p.m. and 2:39 p.m. To his knowledge there had only been
one rear-end collision at the location, and he saw no benefit in adding a dedicated tight-tum lane.

Council Member Hyland provide background on the request. The Brighton High School
Community Council approached her after a gentleman was killed in a crosswalk as they were
concerned about their children's safety. They first requested a crossing guard at the Butler Hills
crosswalk but were told by Canyons School District that they do not have crossing guards at high
schools. Their second request was to time the crosswalk because drivers seem to get frustrated at
how often they have to stop for the flashing beacon. A timed crossing may allow for better traffic
movement and visibility. The request for a dedicated right tum lane was to reduce driver
impatience, especially in the morning. She agreed that the turn lane was not feasible but asked
about the possibility of crosswalk improvements.

Mr. Shipp stated that the Bengal Boulevard/Highland Drive intersection project would correct the
issue, and both county and federal funds were available for that project. The crossing would be

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
narrower, provide a safe island in the middle, and have upgraded, timed RRFBs. He was
researching other improvements, but those would increase costs, and he had not received approval
to move forward. He will research whether the two crosswalk buttons can be upgraded separately.
Council Member Hyland remarked that it was helpful to know how the crosswalk would be
impacted by that project. It would also likely be addressed by the Comprehensive Safety Action
Plan.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about children attempting to cross the street as soon
as they push the button regardless of whether the lights begin to flash at that time. In response to
a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that improvements to the
westbound onramp to Interstate 215 initially included standard flashing yellow lights with a
"Walk/Don' t Walk" sign. A young man hit the button, theri assumed that he could walk because
the lights were flashing and the sign said "Walk". I>1ivers are supposed to stop as soon as a
pedestrian enters the sidewalk. However, the young man was struck. They try to mitigate that
issue as much as possible with young people b~cause, to Council Member Newell's point, they are
less likely to check before entering the crosswalk. That crosswalk was changed to a High-Intensity
Activated CrossWalk ("HAWK") signal, which changes the light from yellow to red to signal
drivers to stop.

Mr. Shipp remarked that RRFBs can cause driver frustration because students will hit the button
in succession, causing the lights to flash for as long as two minutes. A timer would limit how
often the lights will cycle.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Brighton High School Community Council sent an letter
requesting that the issue be addressed in a Council meeting, and she appreciated the opportunity
to discuss it. She and Mr. Shipp would schedule a meeting with them to discuss the matter further.
Mayor Bennion reported that she had been meeting with Mr. Shipp and the Public Works
Depaiiment when she had questions, and they had really helped her understand issues. She
encouraged the Council to do so as well.

Council Member Birrell remarked on an opinion piece in The Salt Lake Tribune entitled "When
Lawmakers Weaken Consequences in School Zones, They Weaken the Dete1Tent that Keeps
Drivers Vigilant". They Council needed to be careful that motorists' convenience did not take
priority over the safety of all road users.

        4 .4     FlashVote -Next Survey Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber stated that FlashVote had asked about the next survey topic. The three remaining
topics from the original list were the General Plan, short-term rentals, and intersection safety. He
asked for the City Council's input on which topic should be covered next. Council Member Holton
remarked that Council Member Hyland recommended FlashVote to the City, and a primaiy reason
for doing so was to survey residents about short-term rentals.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City was almost ready to implement Granicus, so she
would like the Council to consider short-term rentals as the next survey topic. FlashVote provided


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      14
a survey from another city that had a definition of short-term rentals followed by four questions
and a comments section. The questions were as follows:

        1.      Do you know or suspect that there are one or more short-term rental properties in
                your neighborhood?
        2.      Which of the following have you personally experienced in your neighborhood, if
                any, from short-te1m rentals or otherwise?
                o       Loud noises
                o       Excessive cars
                o       Other nuisances
        3.      If the City were to regulate sho1t-tenn rentals, which do you believe would be most
                appropriate? Respondents can then choose three items from a menu of options.
        4.      If the City were to establish additional standards for sh01t-term rentals, which of
                the following types of regulations would you support, if any? Choose all that apply.

The questions could be tailored to the City'sns":eds, but Council Member Hyland believed the
sample questions were a good start. Mayor Bennion agreed as the City is highly impacted by
short-te1m rentals due to its proximity to the canyons. Council Member Hyland stated that there
may be a way to overlay a map witll the first question to determine if residents are even aware of
nearby sho1t-term rentals. Mayor Bennion remarked that from her experience, many residents are
aware of and frustrated by the lack of action on them, and she was excited that the City was taking
action. Council Member Birrell recommended framing the question to detennine if the respondent
perceives sho1t-term rentals as a negative for the community. Mayor Bennion agreed that it is a
nuanced topic as some residents supplement their income by renting out a portion of their home.

Council Member Birrell thanked Council Member Hyland for the questions and her leadership in
regard to short-tenn rentals and noted that the Council majority wanted to advance that topic. She
noted for the record that she had twice indicated that she believes it is urgent to survey residents
regarding the URC to determine whether they want that choice. She was willing to table her
request for a survey on intersection safety to address that time-sensitive issue and receive
community feedback prior to the May 19 vote, and she believed that short-term rentals could also
be postponed.

Council Member Hyland stated that due to the complexity of the URC program, she believes it
would be difficult to adequately educate respondents about what it is and what they are doing.
Citizens who are interested in the program have reached out to the City Council. She agreed that
the Council needs feedback, but she believed that they were receiving it.

Mayor Bennion asked if a FlashVote survey on URC would raise awareness of the program. In
response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber reported that there were
currently over 600 residents in the pool. Council Member Holton stated that he was in favor of
the topic of short-term rentals. It was noted that the City had paid for six surveys, and two had
been completed. Residents had also offered to pay for one additional survey.

Mayor Bennion asked if the Council would be willing to allow one survey to be used to increase
awareness and gather citizen feedback on the important project or to allow residents to pay for that

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
survey. Council Member Hyland stated that the survey should not be politicized. She would
consider a fair survey that educates and asks for opinions, but the questions would need to be
reviewed by the Council. Council Member Holton stated that the newsletter article will reach
more than 600 people, which he believes is sufficient. Council Member Hyland stated that the
survey should be conducted after the article is published.

Timing was discussed. Mayor Bennion stated that the Council could review the questions on
May 5 and the survey could go out immediately. In response to her question, Mr. Geber reported
that FlashVote usually responds with recommended questions within one week, but the URC is a
very specific topic that may take more time. It was decided that the Council would discuss
questions over email.

Council Member Holton asked how his Council colleagues would like to approach the FlashVote
surveys. Because the Council would vote on the URC on May 19, he believed the survey may be
an attempt to guide policy. He asked if a survey would be conducted for the property tax increase
to detennine which percentage residents would prefer, for example, and noted that all Council
Members had received multiple emails both for and against the URC program.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about perception and indicated that the verbiage
would be critical. He also did not w-ant to lose momentum on short-term rentals. Mayor Bennion
asked if the Council believed short-term rentals had the same time urgency. Council Member
Hyland stated that because they were planning to begin implementation in the summer, the survey
should be conducted soon.

In response to a question, Mr. Geber reported that surveys are open for two to three days. Council
Member Hyland noted that respondents who were sent a link to a survey have potential bias, and
those results can be filtered out. She wanted to ensure that both data sets are reviewed. Council
Member Birrell stated that a number of people had told her that they signed up but did not receive
a surv~_y.

Mayor Bennion indicated that the City Council would work on questions via email, and a survey
would not be conducted unless the Council agreed on the verbiage.

5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        5.1     Sapling Sale - Saturday, April 25, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the Parking
                Lot at City~Hall.
        5.2     Family Support Center Pinwheels for Prevention Plantings - Saturday, April
                25 at 9:00 a.m. with a Program at 10:30 a.m. at City Hall.
        5.3     Neighborhood Budget Meeting - Thursday, April 30 at 6:30 p.m. in the
                Community Room at City Hall.
        5.4     Creek Road Crosswalk Study Open House - Wednesday, May 6 at Oakdale
                Elementary School from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
        5.5     Public Works Open House for Residents - Wednesday, May 20 from 5:00 p.m.
                to 7:00 p.m. at the Public Works Building.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
        5.6     Shred Event- Monday, June 1, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit).
        5.7     CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to
                12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza.
        5.8     Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026.
        5.9     Block Party/Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside
                Plaza.

Mr. Spung reported that the Sapling Sale would begin at 9:00 a.m. on April 25, not 10:00 a.m. as
previously indicated. Approximately 50 trees had already been sold. The CHaRM event had been
moved to 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on June 6.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland-moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session and
open a Closed Meeting for the purpose of discussing real property; the character and professional
competence or physical or mental health of an individual; or any other permitted purposes. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Binell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The City Council was in closed session from 6:29 PM to 6:46 PM.

The following were present:

Mayor_-Q~y Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Binell, Council Member Matt Holton (via
Zoom), _Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell; City Manager, Jared
Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community
and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Wendy Fisher, Utah Open Lands




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026      Approved: _   _   _ __

                                                      17
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton (via Zoom), Council Member Suzanne Hyland,
                           Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham;
                           Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo;
                           Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                           Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                           Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City
                           Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.       WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.      PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.      CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Reports by Council Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton reported that as the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling Distiict
("WF~") continues to work on ways to keep costs down while retaining a high level of service,
they are also expanding their services. Beginning May 1, 2026, residents can hire WFWRD to
pick up various item at an additional charge. The base pickup fee is $20. If they pick up a mattress,
there is an additional $20 charge. Freon-containing appliances are an additional $25 each, and
other appliances like washing machines are $10. Tires are $5 to $6 each. If residents forget to put
their bin out and request an additional pickup, there will be a $25 missed pickup fee. The WFRD
will also hold a retreat on Monday, April 28 to discuss longstanding policies, and he encouraged
residents to contact him with any input.

        3.2      Committee Reports by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland reported that she is the Council Liaison to the Emergency Management
Committee. People think of emergency preparedness in regard to events like large earthquakes,
but it is also important to prepare for things like flooding and less common events like
electromagnetic pulses. She believes the City is unprepared to reach residents in the event of an
emergency. Anthropic developed a model that identified secmity vulnerabilities in almost every
major system, and The Wall Street Journal had recommended that everyone update all of their

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      18
devices. People should also be aware of any device that is connected to the internet but no longer
suppo1ied with security updates, like an old Ring camera or Windows 10 device. Those security
vulnerabilities could cause your data to be wiped out. If they are not addressed by large companies,
people may not know what is in their bank account, for example. She hoped that citizens
understand why more money is required to address those issues.

During the January inauguration ceremony, she mentioned that everyone needs to have more grace
for one another and themselves. In 1998, the internet upended how people work. In 2010, smart
phones did it again. In 2023, AI again upended the way we work. It is difficult for humans to
integrate so many major changes in such a sh01i period of time. In that 25 years, there was also a
financial crisis and pandemic. It is no wonder that people are experiencing angst. She asked that
everyone remember how difficult it has been to be human over the past few years and work to
engage in civil, thoughtful, respectful dialogue and have grace for one another.

        3.3     Committee Reports by Council Member Shawn Newell.

Council Member Newell reported that he serves on the Health in the Heights Committee, which
was currently promoting the Utah Department of Natural Resources' Adventure Pass for young
people in the community. The program includes a journal where students can log their experiences
in nature. Health in the Heights was also working to evaluate health impacts on young people, and
he was excited to share that report sooh.

He serves on the Canyons School District Education Foundation Board, which recently held a gala
where they awarded seven $2,500 scholarships to high school students. Each student submitted
an essay on why tney deserved a scholarship and had demonstrated scholastic prowess. He
volunteers with the Unified Sports Program, which allows special education students to participate
in different types of sporting events. It provides an opportunity for the children to feel included in
their schools and- participate in sports they may otherwise not have had an opportunity to
experience. Their upcoming Fun Run will include many local special education students.

Council Member Newell reinforced Council Member Hyland's statement: It is a great time think
about our humanity. Everyone has the opportunity to understand that we live in a shared village,
and it is important to act accordingly moving forward. There are great things happening in the
City, but it takes everyone to make the village thrive.

        3.4      Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell stated that youth development and sustainability are her top priorities.
Winter temperatures were 7. 7 degrees higher than average, and she is very concerned about the
future. She had been working on the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC") program, which the
City entered into in 2019. Cottonwood Heights has a board seat, and in their monthly meetings
URC has worked on scalable ways to help Utah advance renewables on the grid. She urged all
citizens to learn more about the program. She has also been researching how the City can advance
in a financially and enviromnentally sustainable way.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
Ivory Homes was still in possession of Summer Hills Park, fonnerly Doverhill Park, located at the
intersection of Bengal Boulevard and 3500 East, but it would be handed over to the City soon.

She congratulated Youth City Council Mayor, Mary Ann Jensen, who was the rnnner up for the
Sterling Scholar program.

Cottonwood Heights resident Helen McCarty would be at the Ap1il 25 Sapling Sale to provide
information on xeriscaping and native plants. A child abuse prevention awareness event would be
held the same day. Anyone wishing to volunteer to put pinwheels out should be at City Hall at
9:00 a.m.

        3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion provided an update on the Cottonwood Heights Interfaith Coalition, which had its
first meeting on Ap1il 16. Rachel Keeney and Sue Protis will lead the Coalition. Their next
meeting will be on Thursday, May 21 at 12:00 p.m. at the Whitmore Library.

As Cottonwood Heights is The City Between the Canyons ana impacted by resort traffic, she set
up a meeting with the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") in March to discuss the new
rough shoulder on the west side of Wasatch Boulevard. It needs to be smoother for bicycle safety,
have proper signage, and hopefully have a police officer assigned to direct ski traffic to the right
on heavy snow days so local traffic can flow in the main southbound lane. Council Member Birrell
and representatives of the Cottonwood Heights Police Department were also in attendance.

She serves on the Central Wasatch Commission ("CWC"), which organized a stakeholder meeting
to discuss the ski priority bus lane. The program works for Sandy and could work for Cottonwood
Heights, especially given the new shoulder on Wasatch Boulevard. CWC offers up to $30,000 for
police overtime to cities involved in the program. She is chair of the CWC Transportation
Comn~ittee and will be following up on that opportunity.

She also serves on the Salt Lake County Solid Waste Board. New legislation passed in 2025
requires that all dump loads be covered so trash does not blow out, but there have been issues with
compliance. She will be coordinating with other mayors to educate residents on the requirement.

She serves on the Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Board, where she learned that 80% of City calls
to UFA are medical. Station 110 on Fort Union Boulevard is the busiest station, especially during
ski season. UFA invested in 48 new cardiac monitors that are connected to hospitals for smoother
transfer of care. She toured their current training center, which is cobbled together from surplus
trailers. A real training center had been built into their upcoming budget, but no major fee
increases were planned due to a 10% reduction in each of their departments. She joined their Fire
101 program in March and now has a better understanding of how they operate.

Cottonwood Heights is the only city in Salt Lake County that does not own its fire stations. Station
110 is not being properly maintained. It is not a City building, but the County does not want it and
is not perfonning maintenance. She is working for Cottonwood Heights to take ownership of the
station, and she hopes the County will contribute funds to begin the overdue maintenance work.

Cot tonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       20
4.      CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Karen Roylance stated that most people in the c01mnunity initially did not know what the URC
was, and concerns were expressed about the opt-out program. More data was needed. She would
like infonnation on whether the program will be beneficial and how citizens' money will be used,
as well as tax, health, and air quality benefits. She does not drive to keep her emissions down on
bad air days, and she believes everyone does a good job of helping the community. She would
prefer that the program be opt in rather than making people who are not aware of it pay to opt out.

Cherie Sadowsld spoke on behalf of the Brighton High School Community Council. She
appreciated the ongoing communication with the City, -especially Council Member Hyland. The
roundabout had been working well, but they had ongoing issues with the other crosswalk.
Teachers have seen many near misses, and she has personally witnessed them as well. It was not
about traffic congestion but rather student safety when trying to cross the road. At times, traffic
backs up to Fort Union Boulevard and beyond. She believes the matter needs to be addressed
before a tragedy occurs as students and parents are very concerned about crosswalk safety.

Melinda Roseveer stated that she listened to the Work Session and wanted to clarify that the
crosswalk issue was not about the roundabout. Their specific concern was the crosswalk at Butler
Hills Drive. They would like to see a timer at that crosswalk. Many people had commented about
near misses, and she had -persona11y almost struck a student when it was dark in the morning. There
are also issues with congestion. They were told that they could not have a crossing guard, so a
good compromise would be to install a timer at the crosswalk to allow students to gather and cross
safely in groups. They welcomed any additional meetings with Council Member Hyland and
Mr. Shipp.

Pat Passey stated that she is a parent who often drives her child to Brighton High School. Traffic
backs up in both directions on Highland Drive in the morning. During that 15- to 20-minute
window, many_parents drop students off at the Butler Hills crosswalk. She believes that as many
as 200 students cross there every morning, and traffic cannot get through. Installing a timer would
be an easy solution.

Shannon Haley urged the CQuncil to vote "yes" on the URC program. She is not an overzealous
citizen with a pet issue, and the program did not emerge from one party or one city. It was built
on years of bipaiiisan cooperation at the highest levels of state government. The Community
Renewable Energy Act passed with overwhelming Republican support in both chambers, and both
the Legislature and Governor Cox recently unanimously reaffinned that commitment. The Utah
Public Service Commission ruled that, "The general consensus of all parties is that approval of
this program is in the public interest." Utah leadership had spoken clearly. The program is sound,
fiscally responsible, and benefits the community. She did not understand how the Council could
take the choice away from citizens. If they voted "no" they would take the decision away from all
Cottonwood Heights residents and forfeit the opportunity for citizens to choose whether to


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      21
participate. She believes that citizens deserve that choice and a chance to be part of the program
that has earned the trust of Governor Cox, the Legislature, and state regulators.

Ken Garner has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights since 2008 and is a licensed professional
electrical engineer. He has never seen what the area is about to face. The Council's decision was
not about opting in or out. It was about over 25 years of the economy, health and welfare of
citizens and the local power grid. He believes the URC will eventually save money. Every year
of his career, the PSC forced the power company to hold down rate increases. There are
guardrails. The new law does not allow renewable assets to be paid for by regular customers or
renewable customers to pay for the shutdown of coal plants. Coal plants will shut between 2035
and 2050 at a cost of $10 million to $20 million per plant, plus approximately $100 million to
clean up coal ash waste. Fuel, transport, and labor costs are escalating. There is also more rate
volatility now that may cause a 70% increase over the next 10 years. He believes renewable rates
will also increase, but at a much lower rate of 20%- to 30%. The North American Electric
Reliability Corporation ("NERC") is putting Uta11 -in the high-iisk category beginning in 2028,
which means any asset loss like a power plant or major transmission line will cause rolling
blackouts. Every kilowatt that can be designed is needed because the power_grid needs to double
in eight years and triple in 15 to 20. The grid needs to be made more resilient, and renewable
technology can accomplish that. It takes five years to build a gas plant, six to eight to build a coal
plant, and Operation Gigawatt would take 10 to 15 years. Solar can be online in one year and
storage in two.

Dennis Magaro thanked Council Member Holton for the timely response to his question regarding
natural gas trash truclcs. He also called him out on a conflict of interest. Council Member Holton
stated that he would-never do that, but the voters would make that decision. He does not need
recycling every week. Once or twice per month would be sufficient and would create a cost
savings. He asked the Council to give residents the option to opt out of the URC program because
the City needs to be a part of-ir.- -    -

Allen Mark stated that if people listened to Council Member Hyland and Council Member
Newell's closing statements, t}le community would be in a better state. The City made the decision
to create an off-leash dog park at Ferguson Park, but it is on a nan-ow stiip of land next to a busy
highway. It is not easy to get to and does not have room to throw a ball, but otherwise it is a perfect
park. People allow their dogs to go off leash at other parks, which creates its own set of issues.
His dog had been attacked twice and his neighbor's dog was attacked once. There was a lack of
enforcement even though signage indicates leash law are enforced. He was also concerned about
traffic. He had not seen any-changes to road safety or design since the November 2025 Fox 13
story, and he hoped the new City leadership would move that forward. There are more and more
reckless drivers. A traffic expert interviewed for the Fox 13 story stated that speedbumps cost
approximately $5,000 each, which they indicated was "chump change" for a traffic department.
He understands that the police cannot be everywhere, but there needs to be more enforcement or
quality of life will decrease in Cottonwood Heights. Fewer people are walking due to safety
concerns, and it is time for enforcement and for people to do the right thing.

Scott Bracken stated that in February 2005, he was tasked with looking into forming a Youth City
Council in Cottonwood Heights. Their first meeting was in March of that year, and he served as

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      22
Council liaison until January 2024. His wife had served as an advisor for over 20 years, and they
had continued to serve as advisors over the past two years. He was present to address comments
made in the last City Council Work Session. 2024 was only two years ago, not four, and that was
repeatedly misstated. He learned in his time on the Council that what is said becomes record, even
if it is not technically con-ect. He was certain that the Council was aware of that discrepancy but
the general public may not be.

During his service, the goal for the Youth City Council had always been to serve, learn, and
develop relationships. The service projects are a benefit to the City, and the education meetings
are focused on Cottonwood Heights government and City issues, not county, state, federal, or rural
issues. The Youth City Council was never a sponsor of activism, just service. There had been
students that disagreed with him over the years, but most those who felt that the Youth Council was
not meeting their needs simply stopped coming. He. did not expect anyone to accuse him of
fighting with students, as from his perspective that was not the case. They always tried to be
inclusive with membership, and he believed th~y had been successful. The Youth City Council
had had superior, energetic students who excel in school and most aspects of their lives, as well as
average students who simply want to be involved. As long as they were willing to serve
and participate, they were always welcome. At least one student became homeless during their
time on the Youth City Council and used the relationships there to feel a little more normal. Some
members went on to obtain graduate degrees at local and Ivy League schools. He is still Facebook
friends with some of those students and has seen how their lives progressed. Many Youth City
Council members had not considered any type of post-secondary education or h·aining,
but pursued it after seeing the options presented by City employees and others. He believes that
the goals of the Youth City Council charter are great, but there are always things that can be
improved. He had corrnnitted to work with Council Member Hyland, the cun-ent liaison, to address
that issue. He also supported installation of a crosswalk timer at Brighton High School.
                 ~


Aaron Hadfield stated that he teaches government at Brighton High School and is a member of the·
CommJmity Council. The students who were present had just completed a simulation where they
created a party platfonn, and their chosen candidate would be running against the candidate from
another class. He invited the City Council to attend their presidential election on May 6 at 6:30
p.m. in the Brighton High School auditorium. Regarding the Butler Hills Drive crosswalk, he had
personally almost hit students in the crosswalk, and he wanted to make sure that it is improved.
Mr. Shipp works very hard and does a great job, and he has taken the time to speak with the
Community Council many times over the years. Cottonwood Heights is a beautiful community
and a wonderful place to work. The Community Council believes that a timer is a realistic solution
that will allow students to group together and cross in mass instead of ones and twos. The lights are
sometimes not enough. He thanked Council Member Hyland for bringing the matter before the
City Council.

Council Member Hyland asked for more information about the mock presidential election.
Mr. Hadfield reported that it will be held on May 6 at 6:30 p.m. in the Brighton High School
auditorium. Anyone 18 years or older is invited to attend and cast a vote.

Council Member Newell congratulated the students in attendance for being present at the meeting
and for learning about the processes that take place in an election. Communities are constantly

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      23
looking for young people to step into roles like those of the City Council and represent their
community.

Mr. Hadfield yielded his remaining time to Ms. Rasmussen.

Bayer Rasmussen stated that she is a student at Brighton High School. She was present to obtain
credit for her American Problems class and to speak about the Butler Hills Drive crosswalk. She
uses the crosswalk, and as a member of track and cross-country team she frequently runs in the
area. She suppo1ted the initiative to install a timer. High school students sometimes have a lack
of care for drivers, and high school drivers also have angst and want to get home quickly A timer
would ease the flow of traffic and allow students to cross in groups.

Rochelle Kaplan stated that she and her husband love being residents of Cottonwood Heights. She
was pleased to see the Brighton High School students and Mr. Hadfield in attendance. She used
to volunteer with the League of Women V~ters to do voter registration and pre-registration
there. She was present to speak in support of Utah Renewable Communities. She loves the idea
of having more data available to residents about how effective the program is, any problems they
have faced, and why it has proceeded so slowly. Utah has many wonderful renewable energy
sources including solar, wind, and geothermal, and fossitfuels are not the way to go for the future.
Countries like China are way ahead, and she would like to see the community and state at the
forefront and thinking about the future. She has respiratory issues and is very concerned about air
quality, and this program will help. She did not have a problem with the opt-out provision.
Community residents should have a say and can opt out if they choose to. She believes the City
should stay in the program.

Randy Long stated that he tried to go swimming at the recreation center the previous evening and
spent 30 minutes trying to find a parking space due to the game. He believes there should be a
limit on the number of spectators that can attend ffecause otherwise the parking lot needs to be
bigger. ~A lot of people park there for the Thanksgiving SK and Butlerville Days, but others are
not likely to park there at the same time as those events.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment Period was closed.

5.       REPORTS

         5.1      Finance Quarterly Report - Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, presented the Finance Quarterly Report.

Property taxes:

     •   Total year-to-date base revenue: $8.316 million of the $8.322 million budget.
            o The average annual increase is approximately $51,000.
            o Property tax growth has been very flat, with only an approximately 4.5% net
                increase since FY 2019.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      24
   •    General Obligation Bond property tax revenue: $1.422 million against the $1.315 million
        budget. The amount collected should theoretically equal bond payments, but it is based on
        a collection rate of 97% so the total will vary based on actual revenue. The amount also
        includes some motor vehicle fee in-lieu revenue.

Other year-to-date tax revenues:

   •    Motor vehicle fee in-lieu revenue through April was $407,000, approximately $25,000
        behind FY2026 but ahead of the $325,000 budget.
   •    Sales taxes were booked through January 2027, with a total of $5.504 million received year
        to date. That reflects an increase of $185,000 over the previous fiscal year to date.
    •   County option highway sales tax was $19,000 ahead of FY 2025, with $491 ,000 received
        year to date.
    •   County local transit sales tax is new and not included in the current budget. Approximately
        $248,000 has been received year to date, and the total projected FY 2026 revenue is
        $424,000. All revenue must be used for transportation projects.
    •   Transient room tax was $100,000, approximately $10,000 behind FY 2025. Mr. Jurges
        believed this was due to the warmer winter affecting ski season.
    •   Municipal energy tax was $1.630 million year to date, approximately $30,000 behind FY
        2025 due to the warm winter and a recent rate cut.
    •   Cable television franchise tax was at $126,000, approximately $9,000 behind FY 2025.
        This revenue is received quarterly and only two payments had been received year to date.
        The budget was being reduced for FY 2027 as cable television usage continues to decline.
    •   Class C Road revenues were $1.163 million year to date, approximately $92,000 ahead of
        FY 2025. The_revenue is volume based, so current high fuel taxes should not result in
        increased revenues.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges reported that the
percen~ges listed at the top of each presentation slide reflected the percentage of the budget that
had been collected at this point in the year. Collections are not equal across revenue sources. For
example, 90% of property taxes are co1lected November through January, but most motor vehicle
fee in-lieu taxes are booked in at the start -o f the fiscal year in July. Sales tax revenue is collected
two months in arrears and fluctuate·s, with higher collection during Christmas and the summer.

Mr. Jurges reported that mpstrevenue is booked in November, December, and January each year
as that is when prope1iy taxes are received. General Fund Revenues were at $19.711 million year
to date, $197,000 ahead of FY 2025. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland,
Mr. Jurges clarified that items like licenses and fees were not included in the presentation. He
believes that item had been underbudgeted in the past and had increased that budget by
approximately $107,000 for FY 2027.

General Fund expenses were at $17.749 million year to date, $292,000 ahead of2025 spending.
The difference between budgeted expenses and revenues had grown over the years to the current
net deficit of approximately $2. 7 million. Staff had worked to keep expenditures down in all areas,
and Mr. Jurges believed that the City was in a good position given the circumstances. The

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026            Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      25
projected end-of-year Fund balance was approximately $3.4 million, and he believes the actual
number will be $4 million or higher. Mayor Bennion asked if this was due to staffing cuts.
Mr. Jurges stated that those cuts were more recent and were not reflected in the report. The savings
were the result of department heads exercising caution in spending, as well as the mild winter with
fewer snow days and decreased snow operations costs.

Council Member Hyland asked if there were any red flags the Council should be aware of.
Mr. Jurges reported that there were no areas of concern. Revenues should be in line with or slightly
above budget, and the ending Fund balance would be higher than anticipated.

6.      ACTION ITEMS

        6.1     Consideration of Ordinance 463 Approving a Second Driveway Exception
                at 1720 East 6670 South. (Pursuant to Cottonwood Heights Code 14.12.150 this
                ordinance will grant an exception to Cottonwood Heights Code 14.12.Jl0(B)(l)
                by approving a second driveway access to 6670 South).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was reviewed in the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 463 Approving a Second
Driveway Exception at 1720 East 6670 South. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council
Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

        6.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to
                 Agreement for Building Services. (This resolution will approve the city's entry
                 into the first amendment to the current agreement for building services
                 whereunder Sunrise Engineering. LLC provides plan review and building
                 inspection services to the city. The main purpose of the amendment is to extend
                 its term from 30 June 2026 to 30 June 2029).

Mayor Bennion reported that Sunrise Engineering provides plan review and building inspection
services for the City. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, it was
confirmed that the only change was to the contract term.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-23 Approving First
Amendment to Agreement for Building Services. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      26
        6.3     Consideration of Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to the
                Architectural Review Commission. (This resolution will approve the
                reappointment o(Scott Peters and Jesse Allen to the City's Architectural Review
                Commission).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. Community
and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, stated that the resolution would reappoint two
currently serving members, and the City appreciates their dedication. In response to a question,
he reported that the Planning Commission is not term-limited.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to
Reappointments to the Architectural Review Commission. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.4     Consideration of Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. (By
                this resolution, the council will declare surplus and designate the method of
                disposition ofa Ford F-150 vehicle owned by the City).

Police Chief, Robby Russo, reported that the Ford F-150 is an excess vehicle that is not needed.
The resolution would surplus the vehicle and return the proceeds to the City.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. 'f!le motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        6.5     Consideration of Resolution 2026-26 Approving Entry into an Interlocal
                Agreement with Utah Division -of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for
                Participation in the Wildland Fire Program. (By this resolution, the council
                will approve the city's entry into an interlocal agreement with Utah Division of
                Forestry. Fire and State Lands for participation in the division's "Wild/and Fire
                Program" to cooperatively meet their ioint responsibilities for protecting non-
                federal land from wild/and fire).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed dming the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-26 Approving Entry
into an Interlocal Agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands for
Participation in the Wildland Fire Program. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Counci 1Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimous!y.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026      Approved: _   _ __ __

                                                      27
7.     CONSENT CALENDAR

       7.1      Approval of the Minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of March 3, 2026, and the Mayor and City Council Retreat on
                March 24, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of March 3, 2026 and the Mayor and City Council Retreat on
March 24, 2026. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed
unanimous Iy.

8.     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 8:23 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026   Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      28
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and Business Meetings held on Tuesday,
April 21, 2026.


TeY-L Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ __ __ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      29
                   ( ~'

        Cottonwood Heights
        Ciry br11,vm tht rtlll)'OIII




                 3a.

     STAFF REPORT
Tentative Budget Discussion
        Scott Jurges
Cottonwood Heights
2026/2027 Proposed Property Tax Impact Schedule
MayS,2026




Cottonwood Heights will consider an increase to its property tax rate from 0.001300 to 0.001857 (estimated) to generate an
additional $3,500,000. The following information is intended to provide decision makers and the public with an explanation
of how the city's operations would be affected if the property tax rate remains the same.




Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Rate                                                                     0.001300
Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Revenue                                                            $     8,164,663
Proposed Revenue with Tax Change                                                                           $    11,664,663
New Property Tax Revenue to Cottonwood Heights                                                             $     3,500,000


Estimated Increase to Cottonwood Heights Property Tax Rate                                                          42.87%


                                                                                               Monthly               Annual
Estimated Increase to a primary residence of $819,000                                          $20.92              $251.03
Estimated increase to a business valued at $1,000,000                                          $46.44              $557.28




Affected Department                            Budget Without Tax Change            Proposed Budget        Budget Change


General Government Department


       Mayor & Council                                                 385,073                551,629              166,556
       Planning Commission                                               8,000                  8,000
       Legislative Comm & Events                                       153,932                153,932
       Court, Prosecutor & Defender                                    440,000                440,000
       City Manager                                                    734,866                770,239               35,373
       City Hall -Admin Overhead                                       627,729                727,729              100,000
       Finance                                                         570,073                576,586                6,513
       Attorney                                                        291,500                299,000                 7,500
       Administrative Services                                         814,021                826,534               12,513
       Emergency Management                                             20,300                 20,300
        Information Technology                                        1,298,932             2,033,437              734,505


General Government Total                                              5,344,426             6,407,386            1,062,960




Cottonwood Heights                                           1 of 3     26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
       Impact of No Tax Increase - The General Government Department will have the following funding changes:
       Mayor & Council will not be funded for the printed newsletter, Cottonwood Heights Small Business Associat ion
       (CHSBA), Sustainability events, Legislative Lobbying, and Capital maintenance of Parks equipment.
       City Manager will not be funded for significant Professional Services (consultants) and training.
       City Hall will not be funded properly for insurance (Auto, Liability, Property) and building maintenance.
       Finan ce wi ll not be funded for training.
       Attorney will not be funded for subject matter special attorney.
       Administrative Services will not be funded for training and employee wellness.
       Information Technology will not be funded for (!)extensive software licensing, (2) IT security hardware, software, and
       FBI required offsite disaster recovery system, (3)audio visual (AV) system replacement.




Public Safety Department                            Budget WithoutTax Change            Proposed Budget        Budget Change


       Police                                                             7,997,630             9,567,556             1,569,926
       Fire                                                               4,963,888             5,173,068               209,180
       Ordinance Enforcement                                               181,279                180,749                   (530)


Public Safety Total                                                      13,142,797            14,921,373             1,778,576


       Impact of No Tax Increase - The Public Safety Department will have the following funding changes:
       Police w ill reduce five sworn officer FTE's and one office support FTE, reducing the level of service from the 2025-
       2026 Fiscal Year. This will impact all areas of Police services including patrol, canyon traction control, detectives,
       and administration. In addition, there will be no funding for body cameras and vehicle cameras, and training will be
       redu ced significantly.
       Fire will reduce Unified Fire Authority funding that equals a reduction in staff at Fire Station 110 from four Firefighters
       per shift to three or three and a half Firefighters per shift.




Public Works Department                             Budget Withou tTax Change           Proposed Budget         Budget Change


       Public Works                                                       1,924,157              2,233,096              308,939
       PW Contracts                                                        820,690               1,010,690               190,000


Public Works Total                                                        2,744,847 •            3,243,786               498,939
                                                    -----------
       Impact of No Tax Increase - The Public Works Department will have the following fund ing changes:
        Public Works will reduce funding for three FTE's reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal year. Thi s
       will impact road maintenance, snowplowing, flood preparedness. In addition, there will be reduced funding for
        required fire hydrant maintenance, and weekly parks maintenance.




Cottonwood Heights                                              2 of 3       26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
Community & Econ Dev Department              Budget Without Tax Change            Proposed Budget        Budget Change


      Planning & Econ Dev                                            677,600                 837,125              159,525
      Building Engineering & lnsp                                    303,000                  303,000


CED Total                                                            980,600                1,140,125             159,525


      Impact of No Tax Increase - The CED Department will have the following funding changes: reduced funding for one
      FTE that helps with planning and permitting, reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal Year. In
      addition they will significantly reduce Professional Services (consultants) and Training.




                                             Budget WithoutTax Change              Proposed Budget        Budget Change


Total General Fund Change                                        22,212,670               25,712,670            3,500,000




Cottonwood Heights                                          3 of 3    26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
                                                                                                      C26-~..
                                                                                                       ~~~;
                                                                                                        c,,.,,.,_:ood     Heights
                                                                                                                  ,,,,,,.,.,.,..,




Public Hearing Needed?          Yes D No D Undetermined D
                                Denied D Approved D Continued D
                                CM Signature:


                                            Last updated April 28, 2026


Summary:
This is a writeup of the details of the 2026/2027 Tentative Budget. This budget includes a proposed property tax
increase of $3,500,000. The details of the tax increase are outlined in (1) the Truth in Taxation Statement and (2) the
Proposed Property Tax Impact Schedule which are included as precursors to this budget writeup. We have utilized a
citizen budget committee, consultants, and resident communications over the past year to guide us in development of
this Budget along with direction provided at City Council retreats held January 24, 2026 and March 24, 2026 and Budget
Committee input. This writeup will outline the difference between this budget and the 2025/2026 original adopted
budget as well as an outline of how the $3,500,000 tax increase will be used throughout the city.

For the past several months we have been cutting costs by early implementation of some cuts outlined in this
document, reducing costs throughout departments, and implementing a soft hiring freeze to bolster the beginning fund
balance for the 2026/2027 budget year.

Please see the (1) Truth in Taxation Statement that explains the need for a tax increase and (2) Truth in Taxation
Property Tax Schedule that outlines the need as well as various departmental impacts of the tax increase.

General Fund

Overall actual expenditures and transfers have been more than revenues and other sources for the 2024/2025 budget
year and are projected for the 2025/2026 budget year by $1,695,491 and $1,913,412 respectively. This trend associated
with the decline in our Fund Balance is the basis for the need to make a property tax increase to balance the inflows and
outflows of funds within the General Fund.

To summarize the reason for the property tax increase we need to consider the following:

When developing the budget, we started with a deficit of $2,694,742 which is carried forward from the 2025/2026
original adopted budget. This deficit is partially offset with additional forecasted revenues of $1,028,213 less required
transfers out for capital projects of $410,000.




                                                        Page 1 of9
Category Department            Description                                                                               Amount

Revenue   Tax                Property Tax New Growth                                                                        50,000
Revenue   Tax                Property Tax on new Annexation areas                                                          100,000
Revenue   Tax                Genera I Obligation Property Tax reduction                                                     (3,787)
Revenue   Tax                General Sales Tax projected increase                                                          250,000
Revenue   Tax                County Option Highway Sales Tax increase (Capital Only)                                        10,000
Revenue   Tax                County Local Transit Sales Tax increase (Capital Only)                                        400,000
Revenue   Tax                Cable TV Franchise Taxes decrease                                                             (70,000)
Revenue   Tax                Energy (Power & Natural Gas) Taxes increase                                                    50,000
Revenue   Tax                Telecom Fee increase                                                                          150,000
Revenue   Licenses & Permits Licenses and Permits increase                                                                 107,000
Revenue   Grants             Class CRoads increase                                                                          25,000
Revenue   Grants             School Resource Officer increase                                                               10,000
Revenue   Other Revenue      Interest income decrease                                                                      (50,000)
                                                                                                                        I 1.02a.213 I
Transfers Transfer Out         Capital Projects Fund Transfer Out (see Revenues above)                                     410,000
                                                                                                                           410.000    I
This moves the deficit to $2,076,529. We then added in a transfer of $240,000 from the CORA Fund for the Land Lease
Revenue associated with the Hillside Plaza town center project. We also reduced expenses by $397,609 and transfers by
$202,949.

Category Dept                  Description                                                                               Amount

Guts      Events               Culture Division Reduction of 2 FTE's                                                       (224,822)
Cuts      Events, Police, PW   Butlerville Days Parade Olanges (Float, OT, etc)                                             (39,425)
Cuts      IT                   Cable TV reduction                                                                            (6,500)
Guts      Council              Council Training and Travel reduction                                                        (40,000)
Guts      Elections            Eliminate Elections (will need next budget year)                                             (86,862)
                                                                                                                           (397,609)!

Transfers Transfer Out         Storm Water Transfer reduction                                                              (200,000)
Transfers Transfer Out         Debt Service Transfer Reduction                                                               (2,949)
                                                                                                                           (202,949)1

Transfers Transfer In          Land Lease Revenue from Town Center (Watgreens) increase                                    240,000
                                                                                                                           240.ooo     I
This moves the deficit to $1,235,971. Then we add back in expense items that we need to fund totaling $573,180.

Category Dept                  Description                                                                               Amount

Need      Insurance            Insurance cost changes (Vehicle, Property, Liability)                                        50,000
Need      Fire                 Annual Increase 4.28%                                                                       209,180
Need      IT                   SQL and general server licenses purchased for ESRI updates                                   15,000
Need      IT                   Caselle - Added modules and service for Pet, Business lie, etc                               10,000
Need      IT                   ZeroTrust Security compliance software - FBI CHS and BCI Requirement                         34,000
Need      IT                   Replacement of on premise AD as MS ages out current systems - FBI CHS and Ba equipment       40,000
Need      IT                   Software base increase ($15K for 2 years, with 9% annua I increase after)                    15,000
Need      IT                   Software and maintenance cost increase for all systems - 6%-12% each                         25,000
Need      IT/Finance           Caselle Module to track and depreciate Capital Assets                                         5,000
Need      Police               Records Management Cost increase                                                              5,000
Need      Police               Dispatch System Cost increase                                                                 5,000
Need      Police               Storage and body cameras for 4 year contract ($232.5K/yr)                                   160,000
                                                                                                                            573,iao    I
                                                                   Page 2 of9
This moves t he deficit to $1,809,151. We then added $1,470,081 in costs that we really should do to operate efficiently.

Should   All              Health, Dental, and Retirement cost changes                                                                      50,000
Should   All              Annual 1% COLA increases for the whole city                                                                     119,410
Should   All              Annual 2.75% Merit/ sworn Step increases for the whole city                                                     302,201
Should   All              Market Adjustments per Salary Study                                                                              35,951
Should   All              COLA Merit Market portion for Storm Water Fund (no impact on General Fund)                                      (28,081)
Should   All              Annual Attorney COLA increase                                                                                     7,500
Should   IT               PD VPN licenses for Phones and iPads                                                                              8,000
Should   IT               Required DR site for all critical IT infrastructure - Required for FBI CJIS and BIC compliance -Annual          120,000
Should   IT               Required DR site for all critical IT infrastructure - Required for FBI CJ IS and BIC compliance - One Time      140,000
Should   IT               Replace and refresh all AV systems - Chambers, Workroom, and Community Room -Annual                              65,000
Should   IT               Replace and refresh all AV systems - Chambers, Workroom, and Community Room - One Time                          255,000
Should   Finance          Training Costs                                                                                                    5,000
Should   Finance          Clothing/Uniforms                                                                                                 1,000
Should   Finance          Meals, Refreshments, and Appreciation (employees and vendors)                                                       700
Should   HR               Employee Wellness Program & Reimbursements                                                                       10,000
Should   HR               Clothing/Uniforms                                                                                                 1,000
Should   HR               Meals, Refreshments, and Appreciation (employees and vendors)                                                       700
Should   Police           Increase Training Standards                                                                                      40,000
Should   Police           Storage and vehicle cameras for 4 year contract (62.5K/yr)                                                       62,500
Should   CED/PW           iWork Additions (Texting, Surveys, Notifications, Perm it Mgt, etc) -Annual                                      28,500
Should   CED/PW           iWork Additions (Texting, Surveys, Notifications, Permit Mgt, etc) - One Time                                     5,700
Should   PW               CHPRSA - Parks and Equipment monthly maintenance                                                                165,000
Should   PW               Building Maintenance Cost Increases                                                                              50,000
Should   PW               SLC Fire Hydrant Maintenance                                                                                     25,000
                                                                                                                                       I 1,470.oa1 I
This takes the overall deficit to $3,279,232. The direction from the City Council at this time is to proceed with a
$3,500,000 property tax increase for consideration in the Tentative Budget for 2026/2027. Details of the various
changes and projections included or influencing this tentative budget are outlined in the following pages.

Fund Balance

We have updated our projections over these past weeks and months for the 2025/2026 budget in both revenues and
expenses to attempt to estimate our fund balance projections for June 30, 2026. This process included a det ailed
analysis of each department and division's expenditures which are broken out between personnel and operational costs
as well as a month ly analysis of revenues with projections to year-end values. Early projections of our General Fund
ending fund balance for the 2025/2026 budget are $4,000,000 which reflects a decrease of $1,913,412 over the
beginning fund balance, which is $576,343 better than our current year adjusted budget. The $4,000,000 would
represent 14.0% of our 2025/2026 revenues. We are required by state statute to hold 5% ($1,425,592) and an
additional $285,118 by City Ordinance@ 6% ($1,710,710). In addition, there is a reserve for Compensated Absences
(PTO/Vacation) that is booked at about $764,269 each year. That wou ld leave approximately $1,525,021 available for
appropriation at the beginning of our new 2026/2027 budget year.

Revenues

Tax Revenue changes built into the budget (from the current year adopted budget) include:

    •    Property Taxes are budgeted at $11,972,647 w hich includes an estimated new growth of $150,000 and the
         $3,500,000 property tax increase. The $150,000 new growth comes from a pa ir of annexations into the city t hat
         will bring about $100,000 in new revenue plus $50,000 in new growth. This growth comes as new structures are
         built or as unfinished basements are completed and as we gain additional areas of the city through annexation
         (like the Tavaci area and the areas along Creek Road). The property tax increase of $3,500,000 will be used to
         pay for items the city already has in its current 2025/2026 budget as well as items that have been added and cut
                                                           Page 3 of9
        from that amount. The certified tax rate will change from the 2025 tax year rate of 0.001300 to a different
        amount when the 2026 tax year certified rate and tax increase amounts are finalized between June and August
        of 2026 which will also finalize the new growth amount from our current estimate of $150,000. The $3,500,000
        property tax increase will impact the average home value of $819,000 by approximately $251.03 annually and
        $20.92 per month. For a commercial property valued at $1,000,000 t he impact would be $557.28 annually and
        $46.44 per month.
    •   We have adjusted the Property Tax associated with the General Obligation Bond debt service payments to
        $1,311,168 which is a decrease of $3,787. The 2025 tax year rate associated with thi s General Obligation
        Property Tax is 0.000209. The certified tax rate will change from the 2025 tax year rate of 0.000209 to a
        different amount when the 2026 tax year certified rate and tax increase amounts are finalized in June of 2026.
    •   In 2023/2024 we received $9,069,925 in sales tax revenues, in 2024/2025 we received $9,183,475 in sales tax
        revenues and we are anticipating approximately $9,500,000 in 2025/2026. Based on this growth t rend, but
        allowing for some caution when it comes to future projections, we are going to estimate $9,750,000 for our
        2026/2027 budget year which is a $250,000 increase over what we budgeted and project in 2025/2026 year.
    •   County Option Highway Sales Tax is budgeted at $830,000 which is $10,000 more than we project for
        2025/2026.
    •   County local Transit Sales Tax is budgeted at $400,000. This was not originally budgeted in the 2025/2026
        budget, but was added later in 2025 when we were able to estimate collections. This can only be 1:1sed for
        capital improvements.
    •   Energy Use Tax built into the budget is $2,550,000 which is $50,000 more than our current budget. This is close
        to our current year projections.
    •   Fee in Lieu of Property Tax (Vehicles) built into the budget is $325,000 which is the same as our current year
        budget. This matches our current projections.
    •   Franchise Taxes (Cable TV) built into the budget is $230,000 which is slightly less than we expect to collect in
        2025/2026. This matches our current projections.
    •   Transient Room Tax is budgeted at $180,000 which is the same as our current year budget. This matches our
        current projections. This revenue type may be impacted by a current review of short term rentals throughout
        the city and may generate a budget change in the future.
    •   Telecom Franchise Tax was implemented earlier in 2026 and will start to generate revenues in July of 2026.
        Based on projections of surrounding city collections it is anticipated that this would generate approximately
        $150,000 annually. This Telecom Franchise Tax will cost approximately $0.70 monthly or $8.40 annually per
        phone line.

All of these tax type revenue changes total a $4,436,213 increase over the current year budget with $3,500,000 being
associated with the proposed property tax increase, $150,000 in estimated property tax new growth, $400,000 from
County local Transit Sales Tax, $250,000 from General Sales Tax, $150,000 from Telecom Franchise Tax, and a $13,787
decrease over current year budget in all other tax line items which is 19.1% in overall increase in year over year tax type
revenue.

Other Revenue changes (from the current year original adopted budget):

    •   Class C Road funds are budgeted at $1,625,000 which is an increase of $25,000 to be more in line with what we
        are seeing reflected for the current budget year and what we have seen trending since the 2021/2022 fiscal
        year.
    •   A decrease of $50,000 in Interest Revenue due to a full year of projected decrease in interest rates coupled with
        declining fund balances in the General Fund.
    •   An increase of $107,000 in revenue related to Licenses and Permits to be more in line with recent collections.
    •   An increase of $10,000 in revenue for school resource officers associated with Canyons School District.

                                                        Page 4 of 9
Total revenues budgeted are $32,044,465 which represents an increase of $4,528,213 (from the current 2025/202,65
original adopted budget) or 16.5% overall increase.

In addition to the revenues described above, we are adding $240,000 as a transfer from the CDRA Fund to the General
Fund that is related to the ground lease on the property at the Hillside Plaza town center development. This transfer
may change in the future as impacted by development at the project site. This makes the overall revenues and other
sources $32,284,465 included in this budget.

Expenditures

Explanations of individual changes are outlined below:

Employee cost changes include (and have been reviewed with the Compensation Subcommittee):

   •    Market- The market adjustment included in this budget is $35,951. This will be used to adjust various
        individuals to the mid-market comparison ranges as needed.
   •    COLA-The current COLA is included at 1.0%. The overall impact of this is $119,410. This wou ld be applicable to
        all employees who are not out of range. The 2025 calendar year CPI-U was 2.7%.
   •    Merit- The current recommended merit would average 2.46% for civilian employees not at the top of the range
        or 1 step in the salary structure for sworn employees not at the maximum step (an average of 2.82%). There is a
        0.5% amount that is allocable to civilian employees as a one-time adjustment with the approval of the City
        Manager. When all employees are considered, the average is 2.6%. This is to recognize the growth, knowledge,
        and longevity of those who are not yet at the top of their range. The overall impact of this is $302,201.
   •    Longevity- For employees at the top of their salary range we have included a 1% longevity bonus that is
        included in the total cost base. The annual impact of this is $17,785. This has not changed from previous years.
   •    Health and Dental cost increase of 6.4% and 3.4% - We have a pre-negotiated 6.4% overall health increase at
        $88,387. Dental cost will increase by 3.4% or $2,058. This is a combined increase of $90,445.
   •    Utah Retirement Systems (URS) - URS has a 1% decrease for non-sworn employees and no change on our sworn
        employees. The overall impact of this is a $40,445 decrease.

Total employee cost changes result in an increase of $507,562 from the current budget. However, $28,081 of this
increase is allocated to the Storm Water Fund leaving $479,481 as the General Fund impact of employee cost changes.

Other Department or Division items that have impact on the recommendation would include:

There were many requests evaluated by myself and the City Manager and discussed frequently during the budget
process. Some requests were proposed to be funded, and others were not. When the option was available, costs were
reduced to make room for recommended cost increases.

Cuts in Expenses total $510,747 and include:

    •   Reduction of two FTE's in the Culture Division w ith associated duties being passed to other existing employees
        bring a savings of $224,822.
    •   Butlerville Days Parade and Float changes reduced by $39,425.
    •   Cable TV in various divisions throughout the city have been eliminated saving $6,500.
    •   Council Travel and Training has been reduced by $40,000.
    •   We eliminated the transfer to the Storm Water Fund w hich saves $200,000.

Recommended cost changes that could not be offset by cost reductions are outlined below.

    •   Elections -We have biannual city elections. We can reduce the budget by $86,862.
    •   City Attorney- cost increase of $7,500 for an inflationary increase that is tied to the COLA (1%) implemented.

                                                         Page 5 of 9
   •   Cottonwood Heights Recreation contributions - includes $60,000 which is the same as last year for other park
       improvements often tied to TRCC grants from Salt Lake County.
   •   Mayor and Council - no changes outside of the $40,000 reduction described above.
   •   City Manager - $50,000 overall increase:
           o    $50,000 to cover liability insurance premium and deductible increases.
   •   Finance - cost increase of $6,700:
           o    Add in $5,000 for training needs.
           o    Add in $1,000 for uniform costs.
           o    Add in $700 for meals and refreshments.
   •   IT- cost increase of $732,000
           o    Add in $320,000 for audio visual needs in the council workroom, council chamber, and community
                room.
           o    Add in $112,000 for various software and server upgrades.
           o    Add in $300,000 for equipment replacement and increased costs of equipment.
   •   Records, Culture, Human Resources - $11,700 increase.
           o    Add in $1,000 for uniform costs.
           o    Add in $700 for meals and refreshments.
           o    Add in $10,000 for an Employee Wellness program.
   •   City Hall Maintenance - $50,000 increase.
           o    Add in $50,000 for increased building maintenance costs.
   •   Community and Economic Development (CEO) - cost increase of $34,200.
           o    Add in $34,200 for iWorQ software to allow for texting, surveys, notifications, and permit management.
                This will be shared with the Public Works department.
   •   Police - cost increase of $272,500:
           o    Police body camera increase costs $160,000.
           o    Police car camera addition increase costs $62,500.
           o    VECC/Versaterm dispatch and records management fees increase $10,000.
           o    Training Standards increase costs $40,000.
   •   Ordinance Enforcement- No changes were recommended.
   •   Fire - increase of $209,180 which is a 4.28% increase.
   •   Public Works - changes increase of $190,000:
            o   Parks maintenance including the addition of Summer Hill park increase of $165,000.
            o   Salt Lake City Water fire hydrant maintenance service cost increase $25,000.

   Overall, the expenses are recommended at $25,712,670 which is an increase of $1,645,652 when compared with the
   original adopted budget for 2025/2026. In summary, this is made up of $479,481 in personnel cost changes, cuts of
   $510,747, Elections reduction of $86,862, $209,180 UFA increases, no change in Mayor/Council items, $50,000 in
    City Manager items, $86,862 in Elections costs, $7,500 in Attorney, $272,500 in Police costs, $6,700 in Finance,
    $732,000 in IT increases, $11,700 in Records, Culture, and Human Resources increases, $50,000 in City Hall
   Maintenance, $34,200 in CED increases, and $190,000 in Public Works increases.

Transfers out of the General Fund:

   •    Capital Projects Fund $2,410,000 for Public Works capital projects.
   •    Debt Service Fund in the amount of $3,941,027 for the following:
            o   General Obligation Bond debt service $1,311,168.
            o   Land and Buildings $1,583,710.
            o   Police Vehicles $682,931.

                                                       Page 6 of 9
            o   Public Works Vehicles $363,218.

The overall impact of the changes outlined on the General Fund is a build of fund balance of $220,768. The current
budgeted ending Fund Balance on June 30, 2027, would be $4,220,768. This represents 13.1% of revenues included in
this 2026/2027 budget which is within the limit of 35% outlined in Utah State Statute. We are required by state statute
to hold 5% ($1,614,223) and an additional $322,845 by City Ordinance@ 6% ($1,937,068). In addition, there is a reserve
for Compensated Absences (PTO/Vacation) that is booked at about $764,269 each year. That would leave
approximately $1,519,431 available for appropriation at the end of the budget year (June 30, 2027).



Capital Improvements Fund

The Capital Improvements Fund is projected to have a $313,442 beginning fund balance available for appropriation.

Revenues:

    •   Transfers in from the General fund of $2,410,000
            o   includes the County Option Sales Tax Funding for transportation of $830,000 and $400,000 from the 1/4
                of the 1/4 funds and an additional $400,000 from the County Local Transit tax.
            o   additional transfer of $780,000 from the General Fund revenues
    •   We are budgeting $100,000 in interest revenues.

Expenses:

    •   Overall Public Works Capital Improvements Fund included expenses of $2,510,000:
           o Overall street funding included is $2,370,000:
                    •   City Striping $200,000.
                    •   Roadway Capital Projects $2,170,000.
            o   Overall sidewalk projects funding included is $140,000:
                   • Sidewalk 50/50 Program $25,000.
                   • Hazard Mitigation $80,000.
                    •   ADA Ramps $35,000
            o   We will need to re-budget several projects that will not be complete prior to June 30 but will take care
                of that in September or October of this year.
    •   Total Expenses are $2,510,000.

The overall impact on the Capital Projects Fund Balance would be no change in the overall Fund Balance which brings
the projected ending fund balance to $313,442 available for appropriations at the end of the budget year.




Storm Water Fund

The Storm Water Fund began in June of 2021 to cover storm water maintenance and capital expenses. This proposal
illustrates revenue modeled at $9. 76 per month per Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU) and associated expense. We will
limit spending to retain around $500,000 for a minimum fund balance at any given time to allow flexibility with any
potential future bonding and/or any emergency repairs and issues that may surface. The Storm Water Fund is projected
to have a $500,000 beginning fund balance available for appropriation.

Revenues $1,850,438:


                                                       Page 7 of 9
   •    $1,830,438 in Storm Water Fee revenue. Monthly billing at $9.76 per Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU). This
        amount is a 3% ($0.25) increase over the 2025/2026 Fiscal year amount plus $1.07 to make up for the
        elimination of a $200,000 transfer from the General Fund. This is anticipated to escalate near 3% per year going
        forward. We currently utilize Rocky Mountain Power to collect these revenues. Our current Storm Water Fee
        was enacted with Ordinance 359 which included an exhibit allowing a 3% annual increase in the fee beginning
        each July 1 through the end of June 2027. For the 2026/ 2027 budget year we will bill $9.76 per ERU which w ill
        generate $1,830,438 in revenue which is an increase of $247,489 from the current year budget.
    •   $20,000 in Interest revenue.

Transfers in $0:

    •   Transfer in of $0 which was reduced from $200,000 in prior years.

Expenses $1,850,438:

    •   Operational and Maintenance costs of $780,455 which includes about $644,015 in personnel costs.
    •   $500,000 for storm drain reconstruction.
    •   $569,983 for Flushing out Storm Water manholes and inlets, raising buried Storm Drain manholes, camera the
        system, and any random capital expenses.

Overall impact to the Storm Water Fund balance would be keeping the same $500,000 ending fund balance. This
targeted ending fund balance to allow flexibility with any potential future bonding and/ or any emergency repairs and
issues that may surface. Each year after this we would anticipate expenses to be similar to revenues plus any potential
transfers in.

CORA Fund
The CORA Fund has a projected beginning fund balance of $526,517 for the 2026/2027 budget year. This will be the
sixth year for the Tax Increment Financing (TIF) on the Canyon Centre Parking project. We also have included the
Hillside Plaza shopping center operations in the expenses and revenues.

Revenues:

    •   $50,000 in Interest on the fund balance.
    •   $750,000 in Property Taxes related to the Canyon Centre Project. This will need to be trued up when our official
        distribution of Property Taxes is known.
    •   $550,000 in operational revenue from the Hillside Plaza shopping center.
    •   $240,000 in land lease revenue that will be transferred back to the General Fund.

Transfers In:

    •   No transfer in will be needed in the current fiscal year.

Expenses:

    •   $50,000 in miscellaneous professional fees related to CORA projects.
    •   $750,000 in total costs related to the Canyon Centre Project. This will need to be trued up when our official
        Property Tax distribution is known.
    •   $550,000 in operational expenses related to the Hillside Plaza shopping center.

Transfers Out:

    •   $240,000 in Land Lease revenue collected and transferred back to the General Fund.
                                                         Page 8 of 9
The projected ending fund balance in the CORA Fund is $526,517 available fo r the Hillside Plaza ($526,517)
rede velopment areas.




Debt Service Fund

The Debt Service Fund is projected to have a $442,057 fund balance at the beginning of the 2026/2027 budget year.

Revenues, Other Financing Sources and Transfers in $6,257,027:

    •   Transfer in of $3,941,027.
    •   $500 miscellaneous so we don't go over budget.
    •   Proceeds from lease return (Police & Public Works Vehicles) $2,316,000.

Expenses $6,257,527:

    •   Use the Proceeds from the Lease return to pay off Police and Public W orks light duty vehicles remaining balance
        $2,316,000.
    •   Police Vehicle Annual financing $682,931.
    •   Public Works light duty Vehicle financing $87,870.
    •   Public Works heavy duty Vehicle financing $275,348.
    •   Building Bond (2021) $1,062,074.
    •   Public Works Building Bond (2022) $521,636.
    •   General Obligation Bond (2025) $1,311,168.
    •   $500 miscellaneous so we don't go over our budget.

Overall impact to the Debt Service Fund Balance would be no change to fund balance.

Summary:

By State Statute we are required to adopt a Tentative Budget at the first business meeting in the Month of May, which is
scheduled to occur on May 5 at 7:00PM, and then put this Tentative Budget out to the public for review and comment.
This budget includes a proposed Property Tax Increase of $3,500,000. The Tentative Budget may be altered between
that date and the time when the budget is adopted, which is required by June 22 and scheduled to be adopted on June
16 at 7:00PM. We will hold a Truth-In-Tax public hearing which is planned for August 11 at 6:00PM. The City Manager
and Director of Finance and Administrative Services believe this is a good representation of a fair budget considering the
current conditions for 2026/2027.

Items not included:

    •   Transportation Fee. No current estimate of what may be generated.

Attachments:

    •   Fund Summaries, Restrictions, and Transfers (1 page)
    •   General Fund Summary (4 pages)
    •   Capital Projects Fund Summary (2 pages)
    •   Debt Service Fund Summary (1 page)
    •   CORA Fund Summary (1 page)
    •   Storm Water Fund Summary (1 page)


                                                       Page 9 of 9
                                                                               Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                           2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                  Fund Summaries, Restrictions, and Transfers




General Fund                                          4,000,000    32,044,465          (25,712,670)      (6,111,027)   4,220,768            220,768   (2,701,337)   l,Sl9,431
Capital Projects Fund                                  313,442            100,000       (2,510,000)      2,410,000      313,442                        (313,442)
Storm Water Fund                                       500,000        1,850,438         (1,850,438)                     500,000                        (500,000)
Debt Service Fund                                      442,057        2,316,500         (6,257,527)      3,941,027      442,057                        (442,057)
Community Development and Renewal Fund                 526,517        1,590,000         (1,350,000)       (240,000)     S26,517                        (526,517)
Total                                                 5,782,016    37,901,403          (37,680,635)                    6,002,784            220,768   (4,483,354)   1,519,431


Fund Balance Restrictions and Assignments:
  General Fund:
  5% State Minimum Balance                            1,614,223
  Additional 1% City Minimum Balance                    322,845
  PTO Vesting Balance                                   764,269
                                                      2,701,337
  Capital Projects Fund:
  Debt Service Deposit Balance
  General Capital Projects Restriction                 313,442
  CORA Park Construction Reserve
                                                       313,442
  Storm Water Fund
  General Storm Water Projects Restriction             500,000
                                                       500,000
  De bt Service Fund:
  General Debt Service Restriction                     442,057
                                                       442,057
  CORA Fund:
  Fort Union Project
  Cottonwood Corporate Project
  Hillside Plaza Project                               526,517
                                                       526,517



~&1.1gf.l1e1,u,~              illNil.                             f ±li'ili;                 ~                           .immr:r.:rlillil
Annual Allocation for Capita l Improvement Projects                  2,410,000           Capital Projects Fund            General Fund
I Annual Allocation for CORA Land Lease Revenue
                                                                         240,000            General Fund                   CORA Fund
 Transfer Funds for Annual Debt Service                              _1_941,027           Debt Service Fund               General Fund




                                                                                                                                                                    May 5, 2026
                                                                                                                                      Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                                                        2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                            General Fund




Cottonwood Hei hts Citv
Fund Detail                                          2024-2025
                                                                      I
                                                                          2024-2025           2024-2025
                                                                                                                Actl.lal to
                                                                                                               2024 to 2025               2025-2026         2025-2026             2025-2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Actual/ ProJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2025 to 2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -     Mays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2026-2027       r - zo~:!z~21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I 2026-2027
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2026to 2027
General Fund                                       Adoet~ Budg!:::t       Adi. Budttet         Actual           % Chan"e               Adonted Bud"et       Adi. 8 UdPet
                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                  Pro H:ti0n            " _Chanse         Tentative Interim    Tentative TaK Increase ! Tentative Budget         % ChangL _

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                          I
Beginning Fund Balance                                   7,608 902            7,608 902          7,608,902        0.0%                       5,913,412            5,913,412          5,913,412           -22.3%                  4,00~                         .....;_            4,000,000       -32.4"


Revenues

TaKes
Real Property Taxes                                      8,279,027            8,279.027          8,246 426        -0.4%                      8,322,647            8,322,647          8,322,647            0.9%                   8,472,647                  3,500.000            11 972 647        43.9%
GO Bond Property TaK Increment
General Sales and Use Taxes
                                               -         9,700,000            9,700,000          9,183,475
                                                                                                                 100.0%
                                                                                                                  -5.3%
                                                                                                                              --             1,314.955
                                                                                                                                             9,S00,000
                                                                                                                                                                  1,314,955
                                                                                                                                                                  9,500,000
                                                                                                                                                                                     1,314,955
                                                                                                                                                                                     9,500,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                         100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,311,168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9,750,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,311,168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,750,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -0.~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.6%
Countv Oction Hlghwav Sales Tax                            810,000              810,000           814,558         0.6%                         820,000              820,000            820,000            0.7%                     830,000                                         830,000         1.2%
Countv Local Transit Sales Tax                                                                      18,340       100.0%                                             400,000            400,000          2081.0%                    400,000                                         400,000        100.0%
E911 Telephone Fees                                                                                              100.0%                                                                                  100.0%                                                                                   100.0%
Fee-In-Lieu of Property TaKes                              325,000              325,000 !         432,458         33.1%                        325,000              325,000            325,000           -24.8"                    325,000                                         325,000         0.0%
Franchise Taxes - Cable TV                                 300,000              300,000           271,920         -9.4%                        300,000              300,000            300,000            10.3%                    230,000                                         230,000        -23.3%
Energy Sales and Use Tax
Telecom Fee
                                                         2,580,000            2,580,000          2,368,801        -8.2%
                                                                                                                 100.0%
                                                                                                                              -              2,S00,000            2,500,000          2,500,000         _ 5.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                         100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -          2,s5o,ooo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   150,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --                            2.550,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   lS0,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100.0%
Transient Roo m Tax                                       1so.ooo               180,000            183.617         2.0%                        180,000              180,000              180,000          -2.0%                    180,000                                         180,000         0.0%
Tota l TaKes                                           22,114,021 I         22,114,021 I        21,519,596        -3.0%                     23,262,602           23,662,602         23,662,602            10.0%                 24,198,815                  3,500,000            27,698,815        19 .1%


Licenses and Permits
Business Licenses and Permits                              183,000              183,000 I         174,642         -4.6%                        183,ooo I           183,000               183,000          4.8%                     175,000                                         175,000         -4.4%
Buildings, Structures and Equipment                       600,000              600,000 I          593,867         -1.0%                        600,000 I           600,000               600,000           1.0%                    600,000                                         600,000         0.0%
Road Cut Fees                                              55,000               55,000            174,600        217.5%                         55,000               55,000               55,000         -68.5%                    175,000                                         175,000        218.2%
Anim31 Licenses                                             10,000              10,000 I             5,857       -41.4%                         10,000 I             10,000               10,000          70.7%                      5,000                                            5,000       -S0.0%
Miscellaneous Permits                                                                     I          1,327       100.0%                                                                                  ·100.0%                                                                                  100.0%
Total licenses and Permits                                848,ooo I            848,ooo I          950 ,292        12.1%                        848,ooo I           848,000               848,000         -10.8%                    955,000                               I         955,000        12.6%
                                                                                          I
Intergovernmental Revenue
Federal Grants                                                                    8,513             9,263         8.8%                                                5,916              5,916           -36.1%                                                                                   100.0%
State Grants                                              40S,400              625,943            637,770         1.9%                         585,400              612,282            612,282            -4.0%                    585,400                                   _ _ _585.400          0.0%
Class C Roads                                            1,480,000           1,480,000          1,591,069         7.5%                       1,600,000            1,600,000          1,600,000            0.6%                   1,625,000                                        1,625,000        1.6%
Liquor Fund Allotment                                      45,000               45,000              54,210        20.5%                         45,000               45,000             45,000           -17.0%                     45 ,000                                         45,000         0.0%
Local Grants                                              152,185              260,520             290.712        11.6%                        244,500             244,500             244.SO0           -15.9%                    254 500                                         254,500         4. 1%
Total Intergovernmental Revenues                        2,082,ss5 I          2 419 915 I         2 583,025 I      6.7%                       2,474,900            2 507 698          2 507,698            -2.9%                  2 509,900                                        2,509,900        1.4%
                                                                                                                                  I

Char,ges for Service                                                                      I
Zoning and Subdivision Fees                                70,000 _ _ _ _
                                                                        70,000                     96,527        37.9%                          70,000               70,000               70,000          -27.5%                    70,000                                     _ _70,000 _         0 .0%
                                                                                                                                                                              -                                                                                                                   100.0%
Pavil!on Fees                                                                                                    100.0%                                                                                   100.0%
Other Chanzes for Services                                                                          2.345        100.0%                                                                                  -100.0%                                                                                  100.0%
Total Charges for Services                                 70,000               70,000 i           98,872        41.2%                          70,000              70,000                70,000          -29.2%                    10,000 I                             I          70.000         0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
Fines and Forfeitures                                                                                                                                                                            T
Courts Flnes                                              420,000              420,000 !          398.479         -5.1%                        420,000             420.900               420,900 T        5.6%                    420,000                                          420,000         0.0%
Total Fines and Forfeitures                               420,000              420,000 I          398,479         -5.1%                        420,000             420 900               420 •oo I        5 .6%                   420 000                               I          420,000         0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
M iscellaneous Reve nue                                                                   I
Interest Revenues                                         500,000              500,000            321 528        -35.7%                        300,000             300,000               300,000          -6.7%                   2SO,OO0                                          250,000        -16.7%
Miscellaneous Revenues                                    140.750              206,728            235,501         13.9%                        140,750             282.948               282,948         20.1%                     140,750                                         140,750         0.0%
Total Miscellaneous Revenue                               640 750              106.128 I          557,029        -21.2%                        440,7S0             582 948 I             582 948          4.7%                    390 750                                I         390,750        -11.3"
                                                                  I                    I                                                                                      I                                                            I                             I
Total Revenues                                         26,235,362 I         26.638,731 I       26,107,292         -2.0%                     27,516,252           28,092,148        28,092,148             7.6%                  zs,544.465 I                3,500,000 I         32,044,465        16.5%
                                                                                       I
Other Financinir Sources


Other Sources                                                                             :
Transfer from Capital Projects Fund                                                       I                      100.0%                                                                                  100.0%                                                                                   100.0%
Transfer from CORA Fund (Land Lease Revenue)                                                                     100.0%                                            349,682               419,682         100.0%                   240,000                                          240,000        100.0%
Sale of Capital Assets                                                          •2.000 I           51,000        21.4%                                                                                  -100.0%                                                                                   100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100.0%
Proceeds from Cacital Leases                                                              I                      100.0%                                                                                  100.0%
Total Other Sources                                                             42 ooo I           51000         21.4%                                             349,682               419 682         722.9%                   240,000 I                             I          240 000        100.0%
                                                                      I                   I                                                                                   I                                                               I                         I
Total Other Financin" Sources                                         I         42 ooo I           51 000        2 1.4%                                            349 682 I             419 682         722.9%                   240 ooo I                             I          240 000        100.0%




                                                                                                                                      General Fund page 1 of 4                                                                                                                                      May 5, 2026
                                                                                                                             Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                                              2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                  General Fund




Cottonwood Heights Citv                                                                                         Actual to                                                            Actual/Pro!             May 5                     May5 _                 May s          Tentative Bud 0 et
Fund Detail                                             2024-2025       2024-2025          2024-2025          2024 to 2025      202S-2026          202S-2026          2025-2026      2025 to 2026          2026-2027                 2026-2027              2026-2027          2026to 2027
Generill Fund                                         Adonted Budoct    Ad'. Budoet
                                                                                      'I    Actual             " Chan e      Adonted Budo• t      Ad', BudDet         Pro'ection      "- Chante         TentiltNe Interim       Tenta iv• Ta~ Increase   Tentative 8ud0 et      2!i than"

                                                                                      I                   I
Gr and Total Revenues and Other Financing Sources         26,235,362      26,680.131 I      26,158,292           -2.0%             27,516,252           28,441,830      28,511,830      9 .0 %      I         28,784,46S I                  3,500,000         32,284,465          17.3%
                                                                                      I                                                                                                                                     I
Use of Fund Balance                                        3 20 8,735       l.445,377 I       1,695,491          17.3%              2,694,742            2,489,75 5      1,913,412      12.9%                   (220,768) 1                                      1220 768>       -108.2%
                                                                                      I                                                                                                                                     I
Grand Total Revenues, Other FS, Use of Fund Balance       29,444,097      28,126,108 I       27,853,783          -1.0%             30,210.994 I         30,931,585      30,425,242      9.2%                  28,563,697 I                  3,500,000         32,063,697           6.1%
                                                                                      I                                                                                                                                     I




                                                                                                                             General Fund page 2 of 4                                                                                                                               May S, 2026
                                                                                                                                      Cottonwood Heights Clty
                                                                                                                                       2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                           General Fund




Cottonwood HeU!hts Citv                                                                                        I     Actual to                                                                     Actual/Prof         Mays                        JYlil'f 5        _        Mays              Tentative Budeet
Fund Detail                                         2024-2025                2024-2025          2024-2025      I   2024 to 2025           2025-2026           2025-2026           2025-2026        2025 to 2026      2026-2027                   2026-2027                 2026-2027            2026 to 2027
                                                                             Ad'. Bud-t     I    Actual             % 0,an"e           Ado(!ted Budget        Adj. Budget         Pro 1ection       % Change      Tentative Interim       Tentative Tax lncreas,.       Tentative Bud#et          %ChanHI!
General Fund                                     Ado(!te~ B!i,ld~!:~

E111n,.nrlit11r""                                                                           I

General Government

Legislative
Mavor & Citv Council                                      553,654                 555.654 .         560,145           0.8%                     594,558     594,558        594,558                     6.1%                 385,073                        166,556               551,629             -7.2%
Pl;mning Commission                                         8,000                   8,000 ,           3,035          -62.1%                      8,000   _ _8~      _ _ _ _8,000                     163.6%                  8.000                                                8,000             0.0%
legislative Committees                                    168,357                 217,557           238,748           9.7%                     168,357     224,811        224,811                     -5.8%                153,932                                              153,932             -8.6%
~al Legislative                                           730011                  781,2.11          801 q29           2.7%                     110 915 I   827 369 I      827'69                      3.2%                 547 005 I                     166 556                713 561             -7.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
Judicial                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
Court. Prosecutor & Defender                              440,000                 440,000 I         425.427           -3.3%                    440,000              440,000            440,000        3.4%                 440,000 I                                            440,000             0.0%
Total Judicial                                            440,ooo I               440,000 ;         425,427           ·3,3%                    440,000              440,000            440,000        3.4%                 440,000 I                                I           440,000             0.0%

Executive & General Government
                                                                                                     -- -                                                          -
Otv Manager & General Government                          693,588                 693,588            598,942         -13.6%                    744,716             745,716            745,716         24.5%                734,866                        35,373               770,239              3.4%
City Hall - Administrative Overtiead                      574 669                 51•.669 I          620,471          8.0%                     627,729             660,248            660,248         6.4%                 627,729                       100,000               727,729              15.9%
Total Executive & General Govemment                     1.268 257               1,268,257 I        1,219 413          -3.9%                  1 372 44S            1405,964 I         1405 964         15.3"              1 a62 s95 I                     us 373 I             1497"68               9.1"
                                                                                            I                                                                                                                                                                    I
Administrative Offices
Finance                                                   547,574                 541,51• I          561,941           2.6%                    559,095              559,095            559,095        ·0.5%                5 70,073                         6,513               576,586              3.1%
Attorney                                                  284,000                 284,000            251,908         ·11.3%                    291,500              291,500            291,500        15.7%                291,500                          7,500               299,000              2.6%
Administrative Services/ Records, Cultural, HR            645,484                 646,709            587,062          -9.2%                    721,041              721,441            721,441        22.9%                814,021                         12,513               826,534             14.6%
Emergencv Management                                       20,300                  20,300             12,916         -36.4%                     20,300               20,300             20,300        57.2%                 20,300                                               20,300              0.0%
lnfonnation Technolo""                                  1,127,173               1,127,173          1,051,463          -6.7%                  1,288,730            1,400,906          1,400,906        33.2%              1,298,932                       734,505              2,033,437             57.8%
Elections                                                                                              4,273         100.0%                     8 6,862              86,862             86,862       1932.8%                                                                                      · 100.0%
Total Administrative Offices                            2 624 531               2,62s,1s6 I        2 469 <63          -5.9%                  2 967 528            3 080 104          3 080 104        24.7"              2 994,826                       761 031              3 155•51 I            26.6%
                                                                                            I                                                                                                                                                                                              I
Total General Government                                5,062,799               5,115,224 I       4,916,332           -3.9%                  5,550,888            5,753,437          5,753,437        17.0%              5,344,426 I                   1,062,960              6,407,386            15.4"
                                                                                                                                  I
Public Safetv
Police
Fire
                                                       8,777,082
                                                       4,823,990
                                                                           _ _8,922, 931 J
                                                                               4,823.990 ;
                                                                                                  8,761,318 _
                                                                                                  4,742,016
                                                                                                                      -1.8%
                                                                                                                      · 1.7%
                                                                                                                                  -          9,066,83_8
                                                                                                                                             4,963,888
                                                                                                                                                                  9,184,880
                                                                                                                                                                  4,963,888
                                                                                                                                                                                     9,184,880
                                                                                                                                                                                     4,963,888
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4.8%
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4 .7"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7,997,630
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,963,888
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -         1,569,926
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         209,180
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9,567,556
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5,173,068
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.2%
Ordinance Enforcement                                    196,983                 196,983 ;          183,810           -6.7%                    198,684              198,684            198,684        8.1%                 181,279                          (530                180,749             -9.0%
Total Public Safety                                   13,798,055              13,943,904 I       13,687,144           -1.8%                 14,229,410           14,347,452         14,347,452 I      4.8%              13,142,797                     1,778,576             14,921,373             4.9%

Highwavs and Public I morovements
Public Works fnon-Class Cl                              2.105,937               2,105,937         2,086,684           -0.9%                  2,206,162            2,206,162          2,206,162        5.7%               1,924,157                       308,939              2,233,096             1.2%
PW Contracts                                              675,690                 675,690 r       1,008,262           49.2%                    820,690              820,690            820,690       -18.6%                820,690                       190,000              1,010,690            23.2%
SLCo Traffic Signal Street Lights                                                                                    100.0%                                                                          100.0%                                                                                        100.0%
Sto rm Drain                                                                                i                        100.0%                                                                          100.0%                                                                                        100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H X).0%
Class C Road Program                                                                        I                        100.0%                                                                          100.0%
Total Highw.tys and Public Improvemen ts                2,181,621 I             2.1s1,621 I       3,094,946 I         11.3"                  3,026,852            3,026,852          3,026,852        •2,2"              2,744,847                       498,939              3,243,786             7.2%


Community and Econ omic Development
Planning                                                1,009,809               1,010,309           906,652          · 10.3%                   956,868              956,868            956,868        5.5%                 677,600                       159,525                837,125            ·12.5%
Eco~ mi~ Development                                                                                                 100.0%                                                                          100.0%                                                                                        100.0%
Building Engineering & Inspections                        303,000                 303,000           276,664           -8.7%                    303,000              303,000            303,000        9.5%                 303.000                                              303,000              0.0%
Total Community & Economic Development                  1,3U.809 J              1,313,309 I       1,183,317           -9.9%                  1,259,868            1 259,868          1,259,868        6.5"                 980,600                       159 525              1,140,125             -9.5%
                                                                                          I
Cost Projections                                                                            I
Underexoend Pro'ection (not budRetedl                                                                                100.0%                                                           (506,343)      100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                            '    22,881,739           -1.2%                 24,067,018           24,387,609 I      23,881,266         4.4%              22,212,610 I                   3,500,000             25,712,670             6.8%
Total £,cpenditures                                   22,955,290               23,154,064 !
                                                                       I                    I                  I                                          I                   T                                                       I




                                                                                                                                      General Fund page 3 of 4                                                                                                                                       May 5, 2026
                                                                                                                                     Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                                                      2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                          General Fund




Cottonwood Hei2hts Citv                                                                                             Actual to                                                                  Actual/Pro·            Mays_                     MayS _                    Mays              Tentative Budget
Fund Detail                                           2024-2025            2024-2025           2024-2025          2024 to 2025          2025-2026           2025-2026          2025-2026      2025 to 2026          2026-2027                 2026-2027                 2026-2027             2026to 2027
General Fund                                        Ado--ted Bud<>et       Ad', Bud.eel          Actual            % Chan"e          Ado,.ted Budnet        Ad'. Bud0 et       Pro·ection      % Chan e          Tentative Interim       Tentativ~ T~x lncreue       Tentative Bud"et          V chan'"'


Other Uses
Proceeds from Issuance of Debt
Transfers to Cap Improvement Fund
Cap Jm p Fund Roads                                       3,000,000            1,483,237          1,483,237    0.0%                         2,000,000            2,400,000        2,400,000      61.8%                  2.410,000                                          2,410,000             20.5%
Storm Water Fund                                            200,000              200,000 1          200,000    0.0%                           200,000              200,000          200,000       0.0%                                                                                          ·100.0%
CORA Fund - Hillside Plaza                                  956,001              956,001 i          956,001    0.0%                                                                             -100.0%                                                                                         100.0%
Debt SeNke • Buildin§;S                                   1,532,183            1,532,183          1,532,183 _ _0.0%                         1,582,872            1, 582,872       1,582,872      3.3%                   1,583,710                                          1,583,710             0.1%
Debt Servic.e • GO Bond Debt SeNice                                                                           100.0%                        1,314,955            1,314,955        1,314,955     100.0%                  1,311,168                                          1,311,168             -0.3%
Debt Service • Police Vehicles                              487,683              487,683            487,683    0.0%                           682,932              682,932          682,932     40.0%                     682,931                                            682,931             0.0%
Debt SeNice - Public Works Vehicles                         312,940              312,940 I          312,940    0.0%                           363,217             363,217           363,217      16.1%                    363.218                                            363,218             0.0%
Total Other Financing Uses                                6,488,807            4,972,044 I        4,972,044    0.0%                         6,143,976 I          6,S43,976        6,S43,976     31.6%                   6,351,021 I                                        6,351,027             3.4%
                                                                                           I                                                                                                                                         I

Grand Total Budgete d Expenditures and Other Uses        29,444,097           2s,12G,1os I       27,853,783          -LO%                  30,210,99• I         30,931,585       30,425,242      9.2%                  2a,s63,697 I                  3,500,000            32,063,697             6.1%
                                                                                           I                                                            I                                                                            I                           I

Total Ending Fund Balance                                 4,400,1•1 I          6,163,525          S,913,4 U          -4.1%                  3,21a.•10 I          3,423,657        4,000,000     -32.4%                  •.220,168 I                                        4,220,768             31.1%

                                                                       I                   I                  I                                                                                              I                       I                                                  I

Net Change to Fund Balance                              13 208 7351           11 445,37711       11695 49111         17.3%                 12 694 74211         12,489,75511     119134121       12.9%       I            220 768                                            220 768 I          -108.2"
                                                             16.8%                 23.1%1             22.6%1                     I              11.7%                12.0%           14.0%                   I              14.7%                         0.0%1                 13.l" I




                                                                                                                                     General Fund page 4 of 4                                                                                                                                     May S, 2026
                                                                                                            Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                             2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                             capital Projects Fund




Cottonwood Heights City                                    Proposed                                             Actual to                                                                    I   Projection to      Proposed        Tentative Budget
Fund Detail                                                2024-2025          2024-2025       2024-2025       2024to2025               2025-2026            2025-2026           2025-2026        2025 to 2026       2026- 2027        2026 to 2027
Capital Projects Fund                                  Adoeted Budg;et        Adj. Budget       Actual         % Change              Adoeted Budget         Adj. Budget         Projectio~ % Change              Tentative Budget      %Change__


Beginning Fund Balance                                        5,519,884           5,519,884    5,519,884          0.0%                     10,788,335          10,788,335       10,788,335          0.0%                 313,442        -97.1%


Revenues
                                                                                                                                                                                             I
Revenues
Federal Grants (CDBG Funds)                                                                                      100.0%                                                                            100.0%                               100.0%
State Grants                                                                      2,414,372     938,760          -61.1%                                         1,465,650        1,465,650 ,        0.0%                                -100.0%
SL Co Grants                                                                      1,567,749                     -100.0%                                         1,579,S47        1,579,547          0.0%                                -100.0%
Impact Fees Storm Drains                                                                                         100.0%                                                                            100.0%                               100.0%
Impact Fees Transportation
                                                   -                                               2,186         100.0%                                                                      :     100.0%                               100.0%
Other Revenues                                                                                                   100.0%                                                                            100.0%                               100.0%
Interest Revenues                                              100,000              100,000       81,139         - 18.9%                     100,000              100,000         100,000    I      0 .0%                100,000          0.0%
Total Revenues                                                 100,000    I       4,082,121    1,022,084         -75.0%                      100,000    I       3,145,191   I    3,145,197 i        0.0%                 100,000        -96.8%


Other Financing Sources
Debt Proceeds                                                 3,551,479           3,551,479    3,551,478          0.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
GO Bond Proceeds                                                                 30,000,000   20,365,863         -32.1%                                         9,634,137        9,634,137          0.0%                                -100.0%
Transfers In
                              - -- - - - -             -      3,000,000           1,483,237    1,637,543         10.4%                      2,000,000           3,642,638        3,796,688          4.2%               2,410,000         -33.8%
Use of Fund Balance                                                                                              100.0%                                                                            100.0%                               100.0%
Total Other Sources                                           6,551,479   I      35,034,116 I 25,554,ss3         -27.1%                     2,000,000 I        n,216,115 I 13,430,825               1.2%               2,410,000         -81.8%
                                                                          I                 I                                                           I                   I
Grand Total Revenues and Other Financing Sources              6,651,479          39,116,837 I 26,576,967         -32.1%                    2,100,000           16,421,972       16,576,022          0.9%               2,510,000        -84.7%


Use of Fund Balance                                             50,000            4,455,062   (5,268,452)                                         .            10,474,893       10,474,893
                                                                                                                                I
Grand Total Revenues, Other FS, Use of Fund Balance           6,701,479          43,571,899 I 21,308,516         -51.1%                    2,100,000 I         26,896,B65 I 21,050,915 I            0.6%               2,510,000        -90.7%


Ex(!enditures


Pavement Management                                           2,680,000           2,680,000    2,668,980         -0.4%                      1,760,000           6,398,480        6,398,480          0.0%               2,170,000        · 66.1%
Striping                                                        200,000             200,000      237,524         18.8%                        200,000             344,699          344,699          0.0%                 200,000        -42.0%
Road M aintenance                                                                 6,702,738                     -100.0%                                                                            100.0%                               100.0%
Transportation Plan Update                                                          129,525                     -100.0%                                           129,525         129,S25           0.0%                               -100.0%
ADA Ramps                                                       35,000               35,000                     -100.0%                       3S,OOO               35,000          35,000           0.0%                  35,000          0.0%
Ft Union Level Course/ Sidewalk                                                                                 100.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
2300 Roundabout                                                                                  38,620         100.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
Sidewalk Replacement                                            50,000               S0,000      38,136         -23.7%                        25,000               2S,OOO          25,000           0.0%                  25,000          0 .0%
Street Sign Upgrades                                                                                            100.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
Bengal Boulevard                                                                                                100.0%                                          1,165,929        1,165,929          0.0%                               -100.0%
Mountain View Park                                                                               30,000         100.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
Hazard Mitigation                                               35,000               35,000      34,803          -0.6%                        80,000              141,721         141,721           0.0%                  80,000        -43.6%
Traffic Adaptive Control                                                                                        100.0%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
1700 East Sidewalk                                             150,000              150,000     911,007         507.3%                                                                             100.0%                               100.0%
Highland Access Ramp                                                                             45,711         100.0%                                                                       I     100.0%                               100.0%
Wasatch Park & Ride                                                                               7,880         100.0%                                                                             100.0%                              100.0%
                                           -    - -                                                             100.0%
                                                                                                                                      --                                                           100.0%                               100.0%
2 700 E Paving & Sidewalk
Hawk Crosswalk                                                                                   41,276         100.0%                                           290,344          290,344           0.0%                               -100.0%
Ft Union/ 1215 Interchange                                                                                      100.0%                                           952,294          952,294           0.0%                               -100.0%
Police Eauioment / Vehicles                                  3,146,620            3,146,620    3,127,20S         -0.6%                           .                                                 100.0%                              100.0%




                                                                                                     Capital Projects Fund page 1 of 2                                                                                                     May 5, 2026
                                                                                                           Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                            2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                            capital Projects Fund




Cottonwood Heights City                                 Proposed                                               Actual to                                                                       Projection to          Proposed            Tentative Budget
Fund Detail                                             2024-2025           2024•2025         2024· 2025     2024 to 2025             2025-2026           2025-2026           2025-2026        2025 to 2026           2026-2027             2026 to 2027
Capital Proj ects Fund                                Adopted Budget        Adj. Budget        Actual         % Change              Adopted Budget        Adj. Budget         Proiection        % Change           Tentative Budget          % Change


Public Works Vehicles                                        404,859              404,859       404,859          0.0%                                                                            100.0%                                        100.0%
Municipal Center Construction                                                                                   100.0%                                                                           100.0%                                        100.0%
Storm Water Master Plan and Facilities Update                                      54,920         20,595        ·62.5%                                           34,326           34,326          0.0%                                        -100.0%
Bonneville Shoreline Trail                                                                                      100.0%                                          389,673          389,673          0.0%                                        ·100.0%
Ferguson canyon Nature Park & Dog Park Match                                                                    100.0%                                                                           100.0%                                        100.0%
Big Cottonwood Trail Maintenance                                                                                100.0%                                                                           100.0%                                        100.0%
2300 E Ft Union Traffic                                                         1,500,000        51,235         ·96.6%                                        1,448,765        1,448,765          0.0%                                        · 100.0%
Canyon Centre Park                                                                                7,175         100.0%                                          610,047          764,097          25.3%                                       · 100.0%
GO Bond Project "The Heights"                                                  15,151,132       367,671         •97.6%                                       14,839,727       14,839,727          0.0%                                        · 100.0%
Other Projects (Solar at City Hall, Bike Lanes)                                                                 100.0%                                                                           100.0%                                        100.0%
Total Expenditures                                         6,701,479           30,239,194 I   8,032,677         -73.4%                    2,100,000 I        26,s96,s6s I 27,050,915              0.6%                   2,510,000            ·90.7%


Other Uses
Transfer Out to CORA Fund 2023 Bond Payoff(GO Bond)                            13,332,105     13,275,839        .Q.4%                                                                            100.0%                                       100.0%
Total Other Financing Uses                                                     13,332,105     13,275,839        .Q.4%                                                   I                        100.0%                                       100.0%
                                                                        I                                                                            I                  I
Grand Total Budgeted Expenditures and Other Uses           6,101,419 I         43,s11,sg9 I 21,3os,s16          ·51.1%                    2,100,000  I       26,S96,s6s I 21,oso,91s I            0.6%                   2,510,000            -90.7%
                                                                                          I                                                          I                  I            I
Total Ending Fund Balance                                  5,469,884            1,064,s22 I 10,1ss,33s         913.2%                    10, 1ss,33s I         313,442           313,442          0.0%                     313,442             0.0%
                                                                                          I                                                           I                   I                I
Net Chan2e to Fund Balance                                   (50,000)          (4,455 062)1   5 268,452        -218.3%                                I     110,474,8931 I ll0,474,893l I         0.0%         I                      I       -100.0%




                                                                                                     Capital Projects Fund page 2 of 2                                                                                                           May 5, 2026
                                                                                                                                              C0UOf'IWood Heights City
                                                                                                                                               2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                                                                                 Debt Sctvice Fund




Cottonwood~eights_Oty                                                                                          Actual to     PronnY!d                                                         Actua!.!_o                                                                           Pro}ealon to   I    Proposed        Tentative Budget
Fund Detail                                                 2023·2D24           2023-2024        2023-2024      Budget       2024-202.5             2024•202S              2024-202S           Budget          I    2025-2026              2025·2026              2025-2026          Budget       I    202.6-2027        2026 to 2027
Debt ServlCII! Fund                                       Ado"t"d Bud e         Ad.Bud e           A,..ual     %Chan'""'   Ado ...t-4 Bud e          d . Budnet
                                                                                                                                                    11                       Actu.il          %Chan ....       i Ado.,tl'rl 8udi:i@t       Adi. Budii:!l!t        Prolectlon        % Chanll!e    I Tentative 0udll!et    %~ne
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
Bcginnin"' Fund 8.ila nce                                     13,199,366          13 199 366     13,199,366      0.0%            13,257,401              13,257,401         13,257,401          0.0%                       442 0S7                442,057           442,057           0.0%                  442.0S"         0.0%


Revenue5

Revenues
Olher Revenues                                                       500                500                    ·Ul0.0%                  500                     500                            · 100.0%        I                500                     500                          ·100.0'J6                  500         0.0%
Interest Revenues                                     I          383 650            383 650         598 525     56.0%                                                          174107          100.°"          I                                                                      100.0%                               100.0%
Total Revenues                                                   384,150            384.150         598.525     ss.a"                   500 I                   500            174,107        34nL4"                            S00 I                   500                          -100.0%      I             500         0.0%_ _

Other Anancing Sources                                                                                                                                                                                         I
Transfers In                                                   2,405,041           2,405,041      2,405,041      0.0%             2,332,806                2,332,806         2,332,806          0.0%                     3,943,976              3,943,976          3,943,976          0.0%                 3,941,027        -0.1%
Oebt Proceeds                                                                                                   UlO.°"                                                                         100.0%          I                                                                     100.0%                                100.0%
Proceeds from Lease Return                                                                                      100.°"            1,810,500               1.810,500          1,810,500          0.0"           I                                                                     100.0%                2,316.000       100.0"
Use of Fund Balance                                                                                             100.°"                                                                         100.°"          I                                                                     100.0%                                100.0%
Tot.II Other Sources                                           2.405 041           2,405,041      2,405,041      0.0%             4,143,306               4143,306           4 143,306          0.0%           I         3943,976 I             3,943,976          3,943,976          0.0%        I       6 257,027        SB.6"
                                                                            I                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                  I
Grand Total Revenues and Other Flnandng Sources                >.789.191 I         2,789,191      3,003,566      7.7"             4,143,806 I             4,143,806          4,317,413          4.2"                     1,944.476 I            3,944,476          3,943,976 I        0 .0%       I       6,2s1,521 I      58.6"

Use of Fund Balance
                                --
                                                                 161,850             161,850       f SS,0341                     12,922,381              12,922,381         U,815,344                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ---                         -
                                                      I                                                                                                                                                        I
Grand Total Revenues. Other FS, Use of Fund Balance   I        Z.951,041           2,951,041 I    2,945,532     -0.2"            17,066,187              17,066,187         17,132,757          0.4%           I         3,944,476 I            1,944,476 I        3,943,976          0 .0%               6,257,527        58.6%
                                                                                                                                                                       I                  I
E..-nditur~

Police Vehicle Lease PrinciD.ll                       I      412,155                 412 lSS       4U.155        0 .0%              424,520       424,520                      424,519          0.0%                       S34,n6                 534,726           534,726           0.0%                  S59 911         4.7"
Police Vehicle Lease Interest                         I       75,528                  75,528        70,563      --6.6%               63,163        63,163                       59,006          -6.6%                      148,206                148,206           148,206           0.0%                  .U.3,020       -17.0%
P'W Ue,ht ChJty Vehicle Lease Princio.al                      31.770                  31,770        31,770       0.0%                32,nl         32 723                       32 723          0 .0%                       68,800                 68,800             68,BOO          0 .0%                  72041          4.7"
PW Light Dutv Ve hide Lease Interest                  I        5,822                   5,822         5,822       0.0%                  4,869         4,869                       4,869          0.0%                        19,069                 19069             19,069           0.0%                   15,829        •17,0%
Publk Works Vehicle lease Principal                   I      292,181                 292,181       292,180       0.0%               262,156       262 156                      262156           0.0%                       266 481                266,481           266,481           0.0%                  270,878         l 7"
                                                                                                                                     .!!,_192 ~----!.3,192                      13,19~          0.0%                         8,867                  8,867             8,867           0.0%                    4~70         -49.6%
Public Works Vehicle Lease Interest
Building Bond 2014 PrindD.ll
                                                 -
                                                      f
                                                           ___18,037
                                                             430,000
                                                                                      18,037
                                                                                     430,000
                                                                                                    18,037
                                                                                                   430,000
                                                                                                                 0.0%
                                                                                                                 0.0%               455,000       455,000                      455,000          0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~




                                                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                                                 100.0%                                100.0%
Buildiruz Bond 2014 Interest                                  33,SOO                  33,500        33,500       0 .0%                1l375        11. 375                      11375           0.0%                                                                                 100.0%                                100.°"
Building Bond 2016 Prncipal                                      115,CXXJ            115,000       115 000        0.0%              U 0,000       U0,000                       120,000          0.0%                                                                                 100.0%                                100.0%
Building Bond 2016 Interest                                        5,325               5 325         5 281       -0.1!%               I.BOO                   I.BOO              1,800          0 .0%                                                                                100.0%                                100.0%
Building Bond 2021 Prindoal                                       68,000              68000         68.000        0.0%              111.000                 111,000            111,000          0.0%                       837,000                837.000           837.000           0 .0%                 845,000         1.0%
Building Bond 2021 Interest                                      396 038            396,038        396038         0.0%              31L 323                 311,323            311,323          0 .0%                      224.226                224,226           224,226           o.°"                  217,074        . 3.i,o
Building Bond 2014 Principal • Esuow Serviced                    452,450            452 4S0        452,450        0.0%           10170,000               10,170,000         10,170000           0 .0%                                                                                100.0%                                100.0%
Buildins: Bond 2014 Interest • Escrow Serviced                                                                  100.°'6             226,225                 226,225            226.225          0.0%       I                                                                         100.0%                                100.0%
Building Bond ~          cipal • Escrow Serviced                  93,050            _93,050         93,050        0.0%            2,480,000               2,480,000 _ _2, ~~ -                                                                                                       100.°"                                100.0%
                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                          '-- ~: -         i                                                                                              ----'--
Building Bond 2016 lnte<est • Escrow Setvlced                                                                   100.0%               46 S2S                  46,525       46,S2S                                                                                                     100.0%                                100.0%
Buildinll Bond 2022 Prindoal                                     278,000             278,000       278.000       0.0%               287.000                 287 000     287,000                 0.0%                       297.000               297000              297,000          o.°"                 307 000          3.4%
Build!nll Bond 2022 Interest                                     243,685             243,685       243.685       0.0%               234, 316                234,316     234,316                 0 .0%                      224,646               224,646             224.646          0 .0%                214 636          -4.5%
GO Bond 2025 Principal                                                                                          100.0%                                                                         100.0%                      290.000               290,000             290,000          o.°"                 295 000           l 7"
GO Bond 2025 Interest                                                                                           100.0%                                                                         100.0%                    1,024 955              L024 9SS           1,024,955          o.°"                L016 168          -0.9"
Cosing Costs                                                                                                    100.°"                                                                         100.0%                                                                                100.0%                                100.0%
Payoff Police Vehkle lease                                                                                      100.0%           1,810,500                UI0,500            J,810,SOO          0 .0%                                                                                 100.0%              2,316,000        100.0%
Other Expenses                                                       500                 500                   ·100.0%                 500                      500              71,228       14145.7%                         500                    500                            ·100.0%                    500         0.0%
Total Expenditures                                    I        z.951,041 I         2,951,041 I    2.945,532     -0.2"           11.o&&,111 I             11,066,181 I       17,132.757          0.4"                     3,944.476 I            3,944,476         3,943,976           0.0%                6,257,527        58.6%

                                                                            I                                                                  I                   T                                                                   I
Total Ending Fund B.al.1nce                           I       u,037,516 I         13,037,516     13,257,401      l 7"              335,020                  335,020T          442.057          31.9"                       44z.os1 I              442,057           442,057           0.0%                  442,057         0.0%

                                                                            I                                                               I                          I                                   I                           I                      I                I
                                                                1161.8501           t1&1 aso11      58034      ·135.9"          ,,, 922 •81•1            IU,92238111       112,815 344         -0.8%       I                           I                      I                      100.0"                            I   100.0%
Net Chanee to Fund 8alanCI!                           I




                                                                                                                                        Debt Service Fund page 1 of 1                                                                                                                                                           May S, 2026
                                                                                                              Cottonwood Heights City
                                                                                                               2027 Tentative Budget
                                                                                               Community Development and Renewal Agency (CORA) Fund




Cottonwood Heights City                                         Proposed                                               Actual to                                                                  Projection to          Proposed            Adopted Budget
Fund Detail                                                     2024 -2025            2024-2025       2024-2025         Budget               2025-2026              2025-2026        2025-2026      Budget               2025-2026            2025 to 2026
CORA Fund                                                     Adoeted Budget       Ad;usted Bud~et      Actual         % Change            Adoeted Budget        Adjusted Budget     Projection    % Change           Tentative Budaet         % Change__

Beginning Fund Balance


Revenues
                                       -                 - 1---    1,937,179             1,937,179     1,937,179         0.0%                    2,118,837             2,118,837      2,118,837       0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -          -           526 5 17           -75.2%




Revenues                                                  I
                                                          I
                                                          I
Property Tax {Canyon Centre Increment)                    I          750,000               750,000      484,443         -35.4%                    750,000                750,000       490,039      -34.7%                    750,000            0.0%
Intergovernmental                                                                                            -          100.0%                                                                      100.0%                                      100.0%
Other Revenue                                                            -                                   -          100.0%                                                                      100.0%                          -           100.0%
Walgreens Lease Revenue                                                                                                 100.0%                                               -          70,000      100.0%                    240,000           100.0%
Hillside Plaza Revenue                                               550,000               575,000      340,875         -38.0%                    550,000                550,000       550,000       0.0%                     550,000            0.0%
Interest Revenues                                                     50,000 I              50,000       64,365          28.7%                     50,000                 50,000        50,000       0.0%                      50,000            0 .0%
Total Revenues                                            I        1,3 50,000 I          1,375,000      889,683         -34.1%        I         1,3so,ooo I            1,3so,ooo I    1,160,039     -14.1%        I         1,590,000            17.8%


Other Financing Sources
Bond Proceeds                                             I                                                             100.0%                                               -              -       100.0%                                      100.0%
Transfers In                                                         956,001            14,288,106    14,231,840        1388.7%                                                                     100.0%                                      100.0%
Use of Fund Balance                                       I                                    -                        100.0%                                                                      100.0%                               I      100.0%
Tot al Other Source s                                     I          956,001            14,288, 106   14,231,840        1388.7%                              I                                      100.0%                                      100.0%
                                                                               I                                                                             I
Grand Total Revenue s and Other Financing Sources                  2,306,001 I          15,663, 106   15,121,523        555.7%        I         1,350,000              1,350,000      1,160,039     -14.1%                  1,590,0 00           17.8%
                                                                                                                                      I
Exeenditures                                              I                    I


Professional Services                                                 50,000                50,000       47,104          -5.8%                     50,000                 50,000        50,000       0.0%                      50,000            0.0%
Parking Structure Funding                                                                                               100.0%                                                                      100.0%                                      100.0%
Hillside Plaza Purchase                                   I                                                             100.0%                                                                      100.0%                          -           100.0%
Hillside Plaza Closing Costs                              I                                                             100.0%                                                              -       100.0%                                      100.0%
Hillside Plaza Due Dilligence Costs                       I                                                             100.0%                                                                      100.0%                          -           100.0%
Hillside Plaza Debt Service Costs                         I          956,001            14,288,106    14,231,840        1388.7%                       -                                             100.0%                                      100.0%
Hillside Plaza Operating Expenses                         I          550,000               575,000       176.478        -67.9%                    550,000               550,000        550,000       0.0%                     550,000            0.0%
TIF Expenses {Canyon Centre)                              I          750,000               750,000       330,137        -56.0%                    750,000               750,000        335,989      -55.2%                    750,000            0.0%
Total Expenditures                                                 2,306,001 I          15,663, 106   14,785,559        541.2%                  1,350,000              1,350,000       935,989      -30.7%                  1,350,000            0 .0%


Transf ers Out
Transfer to Capital Projects Fund {Canyon Centre Park)                   -                              154,306         100.0%                                         1,242,638     1,396,688      100.0%                                      -100.0%
Transfer to General Fund                                                 -                                              100.0%                                           349,682       419,682      100.0%                    240,000            -31.4%
Total Other Financing Uses                                I                    I                        154,306         100.0%                        -                1,592,320     1,816,370      100.0%                    240,000    I      -84.9%

                                                                             I                                                                               I
Grand Total Budeted Expenditures and Other Uses                    2,306,001 I          1s,663,106 I t4,939,a6s         547.9%                  1,3so,ooo I            2,942,320     2,752,359      103.9%                  1,590,000           -46.0%

                                                          I                                                                                                  I
Total Ending Fund Balance                                 !        1,931,119   I         1,937,179     2,118,837         9.4%                   2,118,837               526,517        526,517      -75.2%                    526,5 17           0 .0%

                                                          i                                      I                                                           I
Net Change to Fund Balance                                                                     - I      181,659         100.0%                                        (1,592,320) 1 (1,592,320)     100.0%                                      -100.0%




                                                                                                                   CORA Fund page 1 of 1                                                                                                         M ay 5, 2026
                                                                                                           Cottonw ood Heights City
                                                                                                            2027 Tentat ive Budget
                                                                                                              Storm Wat er Fund




Cottonw ood Heights City                                                                                        Actual to                                                                Projection to          Proposed            Tentative Budget
Fund Detail                                             2024-2025           2024-2025         2024-2025          Budget               2025-2026          2025-2026         2025-2026        Budget              2026-2027             2026 to 2027
Storm W ater Fund                                     Adol!ted Budget       Adj. Budget        Actua l          % Change           Adoeted Budget        Adj. Budget       Projection     % Change           Tentative Budget          % Change


Beginning Fund Balance                                      1,272,543        1,212,543 I       1,272,543          0.0%                   1,068,016        1,068,016         1,068,016        0.0%                    500,000            -53.2%


Revenues
                                 -              .                                                                 - -                       -                                                                                   -
Revenues
                                                            1,536,844        1,536,844         1,352,900         -12.0%                  1,582,949        1,582,949         1,582,949        0.0%                   1,830,438            15.6%
Storm Water Fee
Grants
                                     -         -                                                                 100.0%                                                                    100.0%                                       100.0%
Other Revenue                                                                                        -           100.0%                                         -                          100.0%                                       100.0%
Interest Revenues                                              20,000           20,000            28,062          40.3%                     20,000           20,000            20,000       0.0%                       20,000            0.0%
Total Revenues                                              1,556,844        1,556,844         1,380,962         -11.3%                  1,602,949 I      1,602,949 I       1,602,949        0.0%                   1,850,438            15.4%


Othe r Financing Sources
Bond Proceeds                                                     .                                              100.0%                                                                    100.0%                                        100.0%
Transfers In                                                 200,000           200,000           200,000          0.0%                    200,000           200,000           200,000       0.0%                                        -100.0%
Use of Fund Balance                                               .                                  .           100.0%        I                                                           100.0%                                       100.0%
Total Other Sources                                          200,000 I         200,000          200,000           0.0%                    200,000 I         200,000 I         200,000        0.0%        I                              -100.0%
                                                                        I                 I                                                          I                                                   I
Grand Total Re venues and Other Financing Sources           1,1s6,s44 I      1,156,844 I       1,580,962         -10.0%                  1,so2,949 I      1,so2,949 I       1,802,949        0.0%                   1,850,438            2.6%


Exeenditures                                                                                                                                                                                             I
Storm Wat er Maintenance Costs                               7S2,374           752,374           585,552         -22.2%                   752,374           752,374           747,373       -0.7%                    790,015             5.0%
Storm Water Capital Costs                                    500,000           816,112         1,0lS,735          24.5%                   500,000           500,000           500,000        0.0%                    500,000             0.0%
Other Expenses                                               344,470           960,901           184,203         -80.8%                   550,575         1,123,592         1,123,592        0.0%                    560,423            -50.1%
Tota l Expenditures                                         1,596,844        2,s29,3s1 I       1,1s5,49o I       -29.4%                  1,so2,949 I      2,375,966         2,370,965       -0.2%                   1,850,438           -22.1%
                                                  -                                                                                                                                                  -
T ra nsfers Out
Contribution to Fund Balance                                                       .                             100.0%                         .                                          100.0%                                       100.0%
Total Othe r Financing Uses                                       - I              .      I          .           100.0%                         .  I                   I          -        100.0%                           .           100.0%
                                                                        I                                                                          I                   I

Grand Total Budeted Expenditures and Other Uses             1,596,844 I      2,529,387         1,785,490         -29.4%                  1,so2,949 I      2,375,966         2,370,965       -0.2%                   1,850,438           -22.1%
                                                                        I                                                                                              I
Total Ending Fund Balance                                   1,432,543 I        soo,ooo I       1,068,016         113.6%                  1,068,016          494,999          S00,000         1.0%                    500,000             1.0%

                                                                     I                    I
Net Change to Fund Bala nce                                  160,000 I        (772,543)         (204,5281        -73.5%                         -          (573,017) 1       (568,016)      -0.9%        I                              -100.0%




                                                                                                         Storm Water Fund page 1 of 1                                                                                                     M ay 5, 2026
                      ottonwood Heights
                    \ IIJ IHt U'«II ,,,~ (dllJOIII




                              3b.

                 STAFF REPORT
Public Safety Employee Contribution Rate Adjustment
                  Cienna Brummel
       Staff Report Memo
      o:           Mayor Bennion &                                                         From: Barba ra Higgins,
                   Cottonwood Heights City Counci l                                              Administrative Services Director
                                                                                              1                                 ,.        ~"    --    -             -:    ..           •   '   '




Date: May 5, 2026
                                                                                                                                      '                   '
                                                                                                  .           ,              ·"-,.-~                  •1•_,,.~.



Re: Public Safety Employee Contribution Rate Adjustment (URS}

'      '     ·""   ,n-.><4 • •, , .   •,.       -       '           ..'r ,           -'                '
                                                                                                                             -~,,       - .                    ·,              "
    :•. •~,:i•i:~~.. ,,, ~ •·. . ~L J,.,~;_'   ,, . .       '.j ~
                                                                    ''       -   ~
                                                                                                  .,       , ·=-- ...- ...          . - - '·-   • •   -~ . :. '     ,.1 ~ ._       .
                                                                                                                                                                                   •               '"


    Meeting Requested:                                                   Business Meeting D       Work Sess ion ~                                             Ot he r D


    Public Hearing Needed?                                               Yes □ No D Undetermined D

                                                                         Den ied D   Approved D Cont inued D
    CM Approval or Denial
                                                                         CM Signature:


Background
The Utah Ret irement Systems (URS) has updated the requi red employee contribution rate for Tier 2 public safety
employees, increasing it from 4.73% t o 5.98%.
Currently, the City covers ("picks up") the full 4.73% employee contribution on behalf of Tier 2 public safety
employees.


Proposed Adjustment
With the URS rate increase, the City has t he option to increase its pick-up to match the new 5.98% contribution rate.


Financial Impact
This adjustment would not result in an additional cost to the City.
    At present, the City contributes an additional 3.81% t o align Tier 1 and Tier 2 retirement benefits. If the employee
    contribution pick-up is increased to 5.98%, this offset contribution would be reduced t o approximat ely 2.56%.
    In summary:
             •        Current pick-up: 4.73%
             •        Proposed pick-up: 5.98%
             •        Offset reduction: from 3.81% ➔ 2.56%
             •        Net fiscal impact: Neutral


    Considerations
             •        Maintaining the full employee contribution pick-up supports recruitment and retention of public safety
                      personnel.
             •        The adjustment aligns City practices with updated URS requirements while maintaining overall cost neutrality.
Next Steps
Staff recommends discussing this proposed adju,stment with internal leadership {e.g., Jared} to confirm direction.
Pending that discussion, staff can prepare the item for formal consideration by the City Council.


Recommendation
Provide direction to staff on whether to proceed with increasing the employee contribution pick-up to 5.98% and
bring the item forward for Council approval.
                             (   ~\       I



                  Cottonwood Heights
                  C,ry brt11Y(II ti~ f,tn)YJIU




                           3c.

              STAFF REPORT
Mountview Park Splash Pad - Drought Discussion
                 Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting □     Work Session IZI   Other □
Public Hearing
Needed?                   Yes □ No IZI Undetermined D

CM Approval or Denial     Deni~d D Approved ~_;>JVQued □
                          CM S1gnatu re: ____L.-~


Executive Summary

In response to the server drought we are experiencing in Utah, staff is reviewing the water
consumption and financial impact of operating the splash pad. Currently, this facility operates on a
"pass-through" system where water is used once and discharged directly into the sewer. Updating
this amenity is not feasible in the current budget. Given the severe drought conditions and the high
volume of waste, Staff is recommending operational changes this year.

Historical Usage and Expenditure

The following table outlines the water consumption and associated costs over the past six years.
Notably, 2021 reflects a near-total reduction in costs due to COVID-19 closures.

Year                          Total Gallons Used                      Total Expenditure


2020                          16,895,076                              $36,219.65



2021 (Closed)                 52,360                                  $201.40



2022                          11,328,460                              $24,024.04



2023                          11,468,336                              $29,302.02



2024                          13,000,240                              $40,864.90
2025                          13,161,974                               $40,879.04



Averages                      10,984,407                               $28,581 .84


Note: Averages include the 2021 closure year.

Recommendations

Due to the extreme drought and the inefficiency of the current "pass-through" drainage, staff
proposes the following options for the upcoming season:

   •    Option 1: Keep the splash pad closed for the 2026 season. This aligns with Stage 2
        conservation mandates and prevents the waste of over 13 million gallons of potable water.
    •   Option 2: Limit operations to two days per week. While this reduces waste, it still results in
        significant water loss into the sewer system.
Future Outlook

To ensure long-term sustainability, staff recommends city council commission a transition study
for this fa cility. Moving forward, the city should evaluate:

    1. Decommissioning: Removing the splash pad entirely and replacing w ith other amenities.
    2. Retrofitting: Converting the facility to a recirculation/recycling system to drastically
       reduce water consumption w hile maintaining the amenity for residents.
Attachments:

2020 - 2025 Salt Lake City Public Utility Bills with usage
                         Service Address:

            Public       1670 E 6870 S
                         Type: Irrigation
                                                                                                                         $36,219.65
            Utilities
Pr evious Balance                                     $165.40
Payment Received                                      $165.40
Adjustments                                        ($4,462.71 )
Water
                          Days           Rate          Charge
   Service Fee              15         2.5133           $37.70
   Service Fee              15         2.5133           $37.70
                          Rate           Units         Charge
 2 Block                1.8000       1,088.13       $1 ,958.63
                        2.5000       1,341.40       $3 ,353.50             113406               135993           (16,895,076 Gallons)
 3 Block
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00
 2 Block                1.8000       1,536.89       $2,766.40
 3 Block                2.5000         973.62       $2,434.05              30000
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00
 2 Block                1.8000       1,750.47       $3,150.85              25000 -
                                                                                     -
 3 Block                2.5000         679.06       $1,697.65
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00       Q)
                                                                     0)    20000 -
 2 Block                1.8000       2,077.70       $3,739.86        m
                                                                     Cl)

 3 Block                2.5000         432.81       $1,082.03       ::,
                                                                     ~
                                                                           15000 -
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00      .!!
                                                                     m
 2 Block
 3 Block
                        1.8000
                        2.5000
                                     1,876.04
                                       634.47
                                                    $3,376.87
                                                    $1,586.18
                                                                    s 10000 -
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00              5000 -                                                   ,_
 2 Block                1.8000       1,205.42       $2,169.76
 3 Block                2.5000       1,224.11       $3,060.28
                                                                               0                                                '-,-- -
 4 Block                2.6600            0.00           $0.00                       N D J F M A M J J A s 0 N
 2 Block                1.8000         770.99       $1,387.78
                                                                                     19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
 3 Block                2.5000       1,541.98       $3,854.95
 4 Block                2.6600         197.54         $525.46
Water Total                          17330.63      $36 219.65
1rtiffllij,fiil•lf                                &Jt,)tl:flrn
                                                                  Share Allowance units = 2479.28, value = -4462.71 .
                                                                  Did you know our drinking water sources include groundwater as well
                             OKAY TO PAY                          as water from mountain streams? Just like our mountain streams, our
                                                                  groundwater must be protected. Far mare information far business and
                        11   -   44 11        -   623             homeowners on groundwater source protection, please visit
                                                                  www.slc.gov/utilities/groundwater-source-protection
                                                                  Meter Readings        Prev RD Curr Rd Consump
                     ~ QYYYV\                                     58648102 1 ByPass 3596 3596 o
                                                                  78302296 1 LargeSide 113406 135993 22587 I
                         11/23/2020 l 0: 12 :1 2 AM




• WHEN PA YING IN PERSON • PLEASE BRIN G ENTIRE BILL '

                                                                  Project Water Assist$ _ _ __        Service Address:
                                                                                                      1670 E 6870 S
                                                                    Amount Enclosed $ _ _ __          Type: Irrigation
                                            $36,2 19.65

   ~ ~Z'    p b,         1530 S West Temple
;;'iji: ~ • 1·' C SLC, UT 84115
 ~-,.,r" Ut1ht1es
                                                                             SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITI ES
           COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                                                             PO BOX 840173
           Attn: ATTN: CANDI TANNER
           2277 E BENGAL BLVD                                                LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
           COTTONWOOD HGTS, UT 84121
                     Service Address:
                     1670 E 6870 S
                     Type: School or Church or Charity



Previous Balance                              $36,219.65
Payment Received                              $36,219.65
Ad(ustments                                        so.oo
Water
                       Days          Rate        Charge
  Service Fee            30        2.5133        $75.40
                       Days          Rate        Charge
 Winter Rate         1.8000         70.00       $126.00
Water Total                         70.00       $201.40
                                                                   135993             136063           (52,360 Gallons)


                         OKAY TO PAY                               25000
                         11 - 441 1 - 623
                         - - - --                                                                  -
                        ~~                                         20000
                        03/09/202 19:38: 14 AM               Q)
                                                             Ol
                                                             "' 15000
                                                             1/1
                                                             =>
                                                             i     10000
                                                             s"'
                                                                    5000

                                                                       0
                                                                            MAMJJASONDJFM
                                                                            20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 21 21 21




                                                           Meter Readings   Prev RD Curr Rd Consump
                                                           58648102 1 ByPass 3596 3596 O
                                                           78302296 1 LargeSide 136063 136063 70




                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
       Attn: ATTN: CANDI TANNER
                                                                     PO BOX 840173
       2277 E BENGAL BLVD                                            LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
       COTTONWOOD HGTS, UT 84121
                 Public                      Service Address:
                                             1670 E 6870 S
           Ut ilities Type: School or Church or Charity
  Previous Balance                                 $310.35
  Pa yment Received                                                               $310.35
  Adjustments                                                                  ($5,223.05)
  Water
                                          Days                  Rate                   Charge
     Service Fee                           15                2.7144                    $40.72
     Service Fee                           15                3.1 215                   $46.82
                                          Rate                  Units                  Charge
    2 Block                       1.9400                  1,088.13              $2 110.97
    3 Block                       2.7000                    418.80              $1,130.76
                                                                                    $0.00                                                                         11328460 GALLONS
    4 Block                       2.8700                      0.00
    2 Block                       1.9400                  1,536.89              $2,981.57
    3 Block                       2.7000                     20.27                 $54.73
    4 Block                       2.8700                      0.00                  $0.00
    2 Block                       1.9400                  1 506.93              $2 923.44
    3 Block                       2.7000                      0.00                  $0.00              15000                                                                             -
    4 Block                       2.8700                      0.00                  $0.00         a,   12500 -
                                                                                $3,472.47         en
    2 Block                       2.2300                  1,557.16
    3 Block                       3.1100                      0.00                  $0.00         ~ 10000
    4 Block                       3.3000                      0.00                  $0.00         !ii 7500
                                  2.2300                  1 557.16              $3 472.47
                                                                                                  S:"' 5000
    2 Block
    3 Block                       3.1 100                     0.00                  $0.00
    4 Block                       3.3000                      0.00                  $0.00
                                                                                                       2500
    2 Block                       2.2300                  1,205.42              $2,688.09
    3 Block
    4 Block
                                  3.1100
                                  3.3000
                                                            301.51
                                                              0.00
                                                                                  $937.70 •
                                                                                    $0.00
                                                                                                          o~---- --------
                                                                                                           NDJFMAMJJASON
    2 Block                       2.2300                    770.99              $1.719.31
                                                                                $2 444.99                  2021                                                                          2022
    3 Block                       3.1 100                   786.17
    4 Block                       3.3000                      0.00                  $0.00
 Water Total                                             10749.43              $24,024.04
 tkiitlri.11@rii;'trj           , : JOe


     Account Balance                                                           $24,024.04        Share Allowance units = 2479.28, value= -5223.05.
                                                                                                 Meter Readings      Prev Rd Curr Rd Consump
                                                 OKAY TO PAY                                     85324430 1      60849 75994 15145
                                            11    _    441 1 _ 623
                                                                    .                            89409556 1 ByPass O    O    0


                                           0'YY"+-~
                                           12/02/2022 9:32:50 AM




• WHEN PA YING IN PERSON - PLEASE BRING ENTIRE BILL •


                                                                                                 Project Water Assist$ _ _ __                       Service Address :
                                                                                                                                                    1670 E 6870 S
                                                                 $24,024.04                      Amount Enclosed$ _ _ __                            Type: School or Church or Charity




      ,1  i!li-,1,!t{-r.
      -,;ff,!! tW-~
                           P
                           UtU·bl'
                               1·t·IC            1530 S West Temple FIRST-CLASS

                              I I ,es
                                                 SLC, UT 84115      U.S. POSTAGE
        0;r--.                                                               PAID
         ADDRESS SERVICE REQUESTED                                           SLMP                          •11 111I 111IIII IIIII I 11 1111 111• 1111 1111 •I 11111 1'I" I' 111111' 'h II I
         ,,llj,,,ll,,l11• •1l11 1•111••11 1111 111 l111 1·1l 1111 11111• 11l1 1••1•1   47                  SALT LAKE CIT Y PUBLIC UTILITIES
         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY                                                       n0rcnty             PO BOX 840173
         ATTN:ATTN:CANDITANNER                                                                             LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
         2277 E BENGAL BLVD
         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT 84121-5001




                                                                                                                                                                                                m"
                                                                                                                                                                                                li.td
     5220008 □ 020000001156510 □ 0 □ 24024 □ 46
                Public                        Service Address:
                                              1670 E 6870 S
            • Utilities
   Previous Balance
                                              Type: School or Church or Charity
                                                                           $423.69
   Payment Received                                                        $423.69
   Adjustments                                                          ($6,098.78)
     ater
                                      Days                           Rate                 Charge
      Service Fee                        15                        3.1215                  $46.82
      Service Fee                        15                        3.6833                  $55.25
                                       Rate                          Units                Charge
     2 Block                        2.2300                       1,088. 13             $2A26.53
     3 Block                        3.1100                         441.70              $1.373.69
                                                                                                                                                                         11468336 GALLONS
     4 Block                        3.3000                           0.00                   $0.00
     2 Block                        2.2300                       1,536.89              $3A27.26
     3 Block                        3.1100                          43.93                $136.62
     4 Block                        3.3000                           0.00                   $0.00
     2 Block                        2.2300                       1,529.83              $3A 11.52
     3 Block                        3.1100                           0.00                   $0.00              15000                    OKAY TO PAY
     4 Block                        3.3000                           0.00                   $0.00        w 12500                   11             441 1             623
                                                                                                                                          -                   -
     2 Block                        2.6300                       1,580.82              $4,157.56         Cl
                                                                                                         ~ 10000
                                                                                                                                                                  , --
     3 Block                        4.3300                           0.00                   $0.00
     4 Block                        5.0600                           0.00                   $0.00        aj 7500                  ~~
     2 Block                        2.6300                       1,580.82              $4.157.56         <ii
     3 Block                        4.3300                           0.00                   $0.00        s: 5000                 12/06/2023 11 :15:42 AM
     4 Block                        5.0600                           0.00                   $0.00
                                                                                                               2500
     2 Block                        2.6300                       1,205.42              $3 1170.25
     3 Block
     4 Block
                                    4.3300
                                    5.0600
                                                                   324.41
                                                                     0.00
                                                                                       $1 404.70
                                                                                            $0.00
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                             -D -J - --------
                                                                                                                                   F M A M J J A s 0 N
     2 Block                        2.6300                         770.99              $2,027.70
                                                                                                                   2022                                                                          2023
     3 Block                        4.3300                         809.83              $3,506.56
     4 Block                        5.0600                           0.00                   $0.00
  Water Total                                                   10912.77              $29,302.02
  [~               · ~                     , •; :.i', -: rer£)'1Hl M Z':tif!EJ;Jfil'illlliru
     Account Balance                                                        $29,302.02                  Shar e Allo wanc e units= 2479 .28, value =
                                                                                                        -6098.78.
                                                                                                        As of November 1, 20 23, lawn meters will n o longe r
                                                                                                        be exempt from mont hly meter service f ees. I f you
                                                                                                        have any questions, please c o n tact Customer
                                                                                                        Service.
                                                                                                        Meter Readi ngs         Pr ev Rd Cu rr Rd Consump
                                                                                                        85324430 1               7614 2    91474    15 332
                                                                                                        89409556 l ByPass        O         O        O




• WHEN PA YING IN PERSON • PLEASE BRING ENTIRE BJLL •


                                                                                                        Project Water Assist $ _ _ __                       Service Address:
                                                                                                                                                            1670 E 6870 S
                                                                       $29,302.02                        Amount Enclosed S _ _ __                           Type: School or Church or Charity




        .,,, PU bl~
                  IC
      _';, gf'7
      .;.(JIil llf"'
        ('·;-r'I
                       ut ·11·1t.,es             1530 S West Temple
                                                 SLC, UT 84115                 s1r%~"i-1t1
                                                                                   PAID
          ADDRESS SERVICE REQUESTED                                                 SLMP                           •I11111 1" 11111' 111111 1111 11I• 1111 II h•I 11111 11111 I' II 111• 11 11 111
          , I, 1111 1111I1111 11 1111 1l"I 111 1II11 I' 111 111 I, I, I, II ,If I11 II 11 11 II 53                 SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY                                                             no,cn~1              PO BOX 840173
          ATTN:ATTN:CANDI TANNER                                                                                   LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
          2277 E BENGAL BLVD
          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT 84121-5001




                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,¥ •
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~ .
      5220008 □□ 20 □ 0000115651000029302025
                  Public                   Service Address:
                                                                                                                                    11/29/2024
                  Utilities                1670 E 6870 S

   Previous Balance                                                                $452.40
   Payment Received                                                                $452.40
   Adjustments                                                                  ($6,677.24)
   Water
      Stabilization Fee                                                          $3,024.50
                                     Days                       Rate                Charge
       Service Fee                     15                     3.6833                $55.25
       Service Fee                     15                     3.8305                $57.46
                                     Rate                       Units               Charge
       2 Block                     2.6300                   1,088.1 3            $2,861.78
       3 Block                     4.3300                     692.47             $2 998.40                                                                     13000240 GALLONS
      4 Block                     5.0600                        0.00                 $0.00
      2 Block                     2.6300                    1,536.89             $4 042.02
      3 Block                     4.3300                      303.07             $1 312.29
      4 Block                     5.0600                        0.00                 $0.00
      2 Block                     2.6300                    1 750.47             $4,603.74             17000
      3 Block                     4.3300                       30.13               $130.46        ., 14167
      4 Block                     5.0600                        0.00                 $0.00        Ol

      2 Block                     2.7400                    1,839.96             $5,041.49        ~ 11334
      3 Block                     3.8200                        0.00                 $0.00
      4 Block                     4.0500                        0.00                 $0.00        cat 8501
      2 Block                     2.7400                    1 839.96             $5 041.49        S: 5668
      3 Block                     3.8200                        0.00                 $0.00
      4 Block                     4.0500                        0.00                 $0.00             2835
      2 Block                     2.7400                    1,205.42             $3,302.85                0
      3 Block                     3.8200                      575.18             $2 197.19                       NDJFMAMJJASON
      4 Block                     4.0500                        0.00                 $0.00
      2 Block                     2.7400                      770.99             $2 112.51                 2023                                                                      2024
      3 Block                     3.8200                    1,068.97             $4 083.47
      4 Block                     4.0500                        0.00                 $0.00
  Wafer ·il"ofal
  ®crrmrelftt&i.t.-tlu.2:Ub                       a::2:-12~91/ 3~ ,, .-J~ ~
                                                                                                 Share Allowance units: 2479 .2 8, valu e : -6677.24.
      Account Balance                                                           $40,864.90       Meter Readings       Prev Rd Curr Rd Consump
                                                                                                 85324430       1                     91604          108984          ) 738 0
                                                                                                 89409556       1    ByPass           0              0




                                                     OKAY TO PAY
                                                   1l _ 4411 _ 621

                                                  ~~
                                               11/19/2024 10:43:20 AM

' WHEN PA YING IN P ERSON - PLEASE BRING ENTIRE BILL •


                                                                                                 Project Water Assist $ _ _ __                    Service Address:
                                                                                                                                                  1670 E 6870 S
                               11/29/2024                                                         Amount Enclosed$ _ _ __




      ~~iii~,. PU bIiC
      A IJI (½IV·•
       c,·;:·-.
                     ut ·I 1I•t.,es          1530 S West Temple , - - - - - - ,
                                             SLC. UT 84115              s1c.sloi¼ti
                                                                     PAID
         ADDRESS SERVICE REQUESTED                                           SLMP                          111 1Ill pl I1111'1 11111 1111 11111 I1111I1 1 111111 11I' 11' 111 11"111 1h
         I11111111111111 I,,, 11'1111111 I' 1111,1,11111111 I 11'111111, I 11 p I fl   55                  SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                                                                       nOrcnly             PO BOX 840173
         ATTN:ATTN:CANDITANNER                                                                             LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
         2277 E BENGAL BLV D
         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT84121-5001




     52200080020000001156510000408649 □ 4
  ;• ~Public
                 utiIi ties
                                                 Service Address:
   r.';•T·,                                      1670 E 6870 S

  Previous Balance                                                                      $43,298.64
  Payment Received                                                                      $43,298.64
  Adjustment s                                                                          ($6,793.21)
  Water
                                                  Dai1s               Rate                  Charge
       Service Fee                                   15             3.8305                   $57.46
       Service Fee                                   15             3.8305                   $57.46
                                                   Rate               Units                 Charge
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,088.13               $2,981.48                                                                             17595 (100 CUBIC
     3 Block                                    3.8200              718.80               $2,745.82                                                                                  FEET
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,536.8g               $4,211.08
     3 Block                                    3.8200              330.27               $1 ,261 .63
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00                000
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,750.47               $4,796.29                   0
     3 Block
     4 Block
                                                3.8200
                                                4.0500
                                                                     56.46
                                                                      0.00
                                                                                           $215.68
                                                                                              $0.00           Q)
                                                                                                                   500    -
                                                                                                                     0
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,867.16               $5,116.02            Cl
                                                                                                              ro          ..
     3 Block                                    3.8200                0.00                    $0.00           :3 000
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00           Qi     0                                                                        IJ:!
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,867.16               $5,116.02            iv          1:-
     3 Block                                    3.8200                0.00                    $0.00           S: 000
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00                       l'i
     2 Block                                    2.7400            1,205.42               $3,302.85
                                                                                                                    -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                ·i
     3 Block                                    3.8200              601.51               $2,297.77
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00                       N      D     J    F fvl       A   M      J          A     5    0     N
     2 Block                                    2.7400              770.99               $2,112.51                              2024                                                         2025
     3 Block                                    3.8200            1,096.17               $4,187.37
     4 Block                                    4.0500                0.00                    $0.00           Cor cected bil l.
     Stabilization Fee 4"                                                                $2,419.60            Sha re Allo wance uni ts= 2 419 . 28 , value =   -6193. 21.
  Water Total                                                    12889.43               $40,879.04            Meter Readi ngs         Prev Rd Curr Rd Consump
  t.!Ji11i31il!:1Mrntl-l .~                                             ~-.:•~. lii·-~~Ei:~:it~ f~            8532 4 430 l             109106       1 26701  17595
       Account Balance                                                                  $40,879.04            89409556 l ByPass        0            0        0



                                     REVIEWED AND CODED
                                          11      _      44 lt        _ 623
                                                                                                                    Approved for Payment

                                      ~~
                                                                                                                         ryyy:y~
                                                                                                                     December, 11 2025
                                      12/11 /2025 8:14:57 AM                                                            12:21 :31 PM


• WHEN PA YING IN PERSON · PLEASE BRING ENTIRE BILL •


                                                                                                              Project Water Assist$._ __            _             Service Address:
                                                                                                                                                                  1670 E 6870 S

                                      12/24/2025                                                              Amount Enclosed s._ _ __




        ,.,·,·•i·,.·,;.,.., P
       .~~,                  U bl'IC                  1530 s Wes! Temple          PRESORTED


          C' , "f'l
                            ut•1•t•
                               1 1 1es
                                                      SLC, UT8411 5
                                                                                 FIRST-CLASS
                                                                                 U.S POSTAGE
                                                                                     PAID
                                                                                     SLMP
              ADDRESS SERVICE REQUESTED                                                                                  •II 11111,111111 1111111I I,,, 11, 1I•111 I11111111 11111 11111 11,I II 11h
              1ll11 I1 11111 1I111 111' 11111 IIIII II 1'1 1' I11 I' 11 11 ii II 1111 11111 I,111   T2
                                                                                                    100611               SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
              Cottonwood Heights City                                                               nOrcnty              PO BOX 840173
              Attn: ATTN: CANDI TANNER                                                                                   LOS ANGELES, CA 90084-0173
              2277 E Bengal Blvd
              Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121-5001




        5220 00 80 0 200 0 0001156510 0 004 0 8 790 43                                                                                                                                                 ii
             Cottonwood Heights
             Ciry bnu'fm the r,myom




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                    4.0
  Action Items and Disclosure Items
           Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Thursday, April 23, 2026 2:02 PM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislation for May 5th City Council Meeting
Attachments:             WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-27 Authorizing and Clarifying a URS Retirement Benefit (5.5.26).pdf;
                         Employer Election to Pick-up Member Contributions 2026.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-28
                         Adopting Tentative Budget for 2026-27 (WST CLEAN 4.20.26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-29
                         Acknowledging Budget Officer Statement, Etc..pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-30 re Required
                         Statement Under UCA 59-2-919(4)(b), Etc. (FY 2026-27).pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the May 5t h city council meeting
are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Resolution 2026-27. The City provides retirement contributions to its qualifying officers and
       employees through its participation in the Utah Retirement Systems. URS recently has modified
       certain of its policies and procedures governing participation in its retirement programs or has
       advised the City to adopt certain pertinent clarifications to its own internal policies and
       procedures concerning its retirement benefits. This resolution (whose exhibit also is attached) will
       accomplish those authorizations and clarifications.

    2. Resolution 2026-28. This resolution will acknowledge the filing of the tentative budget for FY 2026-
       27; adopt the tentative budget subject to further review and consideration by the council;
       establish the date, time and place for a public hearing on the tentative budget prior to adoption of
       the FY 2026-27 final budget subject to the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §§59-2-919 and 59-2-
       924; order publication of thee required legal notices; and order the tentative budget be available
       for public inspection in the office of the city recorder and on the city's website for at least ten days
       before adoption of the final budget.

    3. Resolution 2026-29. This resolution will acknowledge that a separate item is on the agenda for the
       5 May 2026 public meeting notifying the public that the city's budget officer intends to state to the
       city council that the FY 2026-27 tentative budget includes a property tax increase; that the budget
       officer made such statement to the council in that meeting; that the budget officer presented to
       the council, as a separate agenda item, in the same public meeting, a "Property Tax Impact
       Schedule" separate from other budget documents as defined in Utah Code Ann . §59-2-924; and
       will direct that the "Property Tax Impact Schedule" shall be available for public inspect ion and
       included as a separate agenda item at each public hearing before June 30 at which the council
       discusses the proposed general fund budget for FY 2026-27. The required "Property Tax Impact
       Schedule" will be finalized and attached before the May 5th meeting.

    4. Resolution 2026-30. This resolution will acknowledge that a separate item is included on the
       agenda for the 5 May 2026 public meeting notifying the public that the budget officer intends to
       make a statement as required by Utah Code Ann. §59-2-919(4)(b); that the budget officer or city
       manager made that statement in the 5 May 2026 public meeting, setting the date, time and place
       of the public hearing on the proposed property tax increase as required by Utah Code Ann. §59-2-
       919; and directing the city manager or designee to send a notice before 1 June 2026 to the Utah
       State Tax Commission and the Salt Lake County Auditor stating that the city is considering a
                                                                1
        property tax increase and the date, time and place of the public hearing required by Utah Code
        Ann. §59-2-919.

As can be seen from their above descriptions, Resolutions 2026-28 though -30 are somewhat unusual,
but have been prepared in consultation with, and approved by, Frank and Kerri Nakamura (our "property
tax rate increase" consultants) to comply with the Utah Legislature's changes over the last few years to
the required process under the "truth in taxation" statutes.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@topham legal.com.



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                       2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                           City bnuw11 the mll)OIII




                                   4.1
                      Resolution 2026-27
  The City provides retirement contributions to its qualifying
  officers and employees through its participation in the Utah
 Retirement Systems. URS recently has modified certain of its
policies and procedures governing participation in its retirement
  programs or has advised the City to adopt certain pertinent
    clarifications to its own internal policies and procedures
     concerning its retirement benefits. This resolution will
       accomplish those authorizations and clarifications.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-27

                         A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CERTAIN
                       RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS AND BENEFITS

        WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") provides certain retirement
benefits to certain of its officers and employees through the City's participation in the Utah
Retirement Systems (the "URS'); and

        WHEREAS, the URS recently requested the City to complete and submit to the URS a
new "Employer Election To Pick-Up Member Contributions" fom1 (the "Pick-Up Form")
designating the specific amount of the member contributions required to be paid under the New
Public Safety and Firefighter Tier II Contributory Retirement System (the "System") administered
by the URS pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 49-23-301(2)(c) as enacted in S.B. 56, Public Safety
and Firefighter Tier II Retirement Enhancements (2020 General Session), that the City desires to
"pick-up" (i.e., pay) on behalf of the City's public safety employees who are eligible for and
participate in the System; and

       WHEREAS, in accordance with federal and state law, including Section 4l4(h)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code, employers may take formal action to pick-up required employee
contributions which will be paid by the employer in lieu of employee contributions; and

       WHEREAS, the City's city council (the "Council") met in regular meeting ou 5 May 2026
to consider, among other things, formally evidencing the City's intent to pick-up a portion of the
employee contributions under the System and approving completion and submission of the Pick-
Up Fonn as shown on the attached exhibit; and

        WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to so act on behalf of the City as a participating
employer with the URS and, after careful consideration, has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to act as proposed;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
that the City will formally "pick-up" the portion of the employee contributions required to be paid
under UTAH CODE ANN. 49-23-30l(2)(c) as follows:

      l.     Beginning l July 2026 the City shall prospectively pick-up and pay required
employee contributions for all City employees who are members of the System, subject to a
maximum of 5.98% of compensation for each employee;

       2.      The picked-up contributions paid by the City, even though designated as employee
contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by the City in lieu of the required employee
contributions;

        3.       The picked-up contributions will not be included in the employee's gross income
for federal or state income taxes (i.e., for tax withholding purposes) until distributed from the URS,
so that the contributions shall be treated as employer contributions pursuant to Section 414(h)(2)
of the Internal Revenue Code;

      4.    The picked-up contributions are a supplement and not a salary reduction to the City
employees who are eligible for and participating members in the System;

        5.      From and after the effective date of this pick-up, a City employee (a) does not have
a cash or deferred election right with respect to the designated employee contributions, (b) may
not opt out of the pick-up, or (c) may not choose to receive the contributed amounts directly instead
of having them paid by the City to the URS on behalf of the employee.

       The City' s manager or designee is authorized and directed to complete and file all
necessary applications and forms with the URS to evidence such pick-up by the City, including,
without limitation, the Pick-Up Fonn attached as an exhibit to this resolution (this "Resolution").

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-27, shall take effect on l July 2026.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of May 2026.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - - - -- - -- -                   By:
                                                    - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                          Gay Lyon Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay _
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 5th day of May 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of May 2026.




                                                  2
                 Utah Retirement Systems
                 PO Box 1590                           Employer Election To Pick-up
                 Salt Lake City, UT 84110-1590
                 801 -366-7318 I 800-753-731 8         Member Contributions
                 www.urs-org

Instructions:   1. This form is designed to notify Utah Retirement Systems {URS} of an Employer's formal election to pick-up
                   retirement contributions.
                2. This form and accompanying documentation must be returned to URS for processing.
                3. A separate Election must be indicated and submitted for each URS system for which the Employer is electing to
                   pick-up Employee cont ributions, whether on a single form or multiple submitted forms.
                4. For information regarding employer pick-up contributions, please refer to Internal Revenue Code Section 414,
                   and IRS Revenue Ruling 2006-43. If you would like to update the Employer Election to Pick-Up Member Contributions form
                   on file for your employees, please input the total amount you are electing to pick-up. By submitting this information,
                   it wil l amend your previous election, and it cannot be less than the previous pick-up amount.
                5. An Employer should consult its legal, financial, and tax advisors if it has any questions concerning the
                   consequences of member contribution pick-ups and submitting this form.


 SECTION A» EMPLOYER INFORMATION
 Employer Name                                                               I Employer Number                          I Date


 Desired Effective Date:                                (The effective date must be after the date that t he pick-up election was formally
 adopted as provided in the attached documentatlon.)

 SECTION 8 » PICKUP AMOUNT(S)
  The above-named Employer certifi-es that it has taken formal action to provide that the contributions on behalf of its oovered employees
  in the following URS System, although designated as employee contributions, will be paid by the employer in lieu of employee
  contributions. (Please check the rbox and fill in the portion of employee contributions picked-up for each affected system below).

  Attach written documentation to tlhis rorm that p.rovides evidence that the Employer formally elected to prospectively pick-up
  specified employee contribulfans. (For example, ordinance, resoluti on, governing body meeting minutes, et c. j
      0 Tier 1 Firefighters' Retirement System, with a pick-up election of ___% of salary that will be p aid by t he Empl oyer in lieu of
            employee contributions. This election only ava ilable to employers initially entering participation with URS in the Firefighters'
            Retirement System_
      0 Tier 2 Public Safety and Firefighter Contributory Retirement System, with a pick-up election of _ _ _ % of salary that will be
            paid by the Employer in lieu of employee contributions for members serving as a Public Safety Officer.
      0 Tier 2 Public Safety and Flr•e fighter Contribut o.ry Retirement System, with a pick-up election of ___% of salary that will be
            paid by the Employer in lieu of employee contributions for members serving as a Firefighter.

 SECTION C » CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
   I acknowledge and certify the following:
        •    I represent and have the authority to sign and submit this form on behalf of the participating employer;
        • The Employer has taken all appropriate and necessary actions to make a formal Employer pick-up of employee contributions on
             behalf of its employees;
        •   The election to pay for the Employee contributions shall constitute an Employer pick-up of designated contributions pursuant to
             Internal Revenue Code Section 414(h);
        • From and after the date of the pick-up election, an Employer may not: 1} have a cash or deferred election right with respect to the
            designated Employee contributions; 2) be permitted to opt out of the pick-up; or 3} have the option of choosing to receive or receiving
            the contributed amounts directly instead of having t hem paid by the Employer to the specified system/ plan;
        •    In order for contributions to be considered paid by the employer, and therefore not subject to Social Security and Medicare tax
             {FICA}, the Employer contributions: 1) Must be mandatory for all Employees covered by the retirement system; and 2) Must be a
             salary supplement and not a salary reduction - in other words, the Employer must not reduce Employee salary to offset the amount
             designated as Employee contributions;
        •    Future modifications to this Employer election may be disallowed or limit ed;
        •   The election authorized to be taken by the foregoing is not contrary to any governing provisions of the Employer;
        •    I understand that URS is not providing the Employer legal, financial, or tax advice relating to making a " pick-up" election or submitting
             this form; and
        • The infor mation provided on this form and attached documentation is correct and can be relied upon by URS .
        •    I agree that the Employer will indemnify URS from and against any claims or other liability including attorney fees based upon
             the Employer's failure to comply with pick-up election requirements.

 Printed Name of Employer Represent ative (Binding Official)                 Signatu re of Binding Official                 Title


                                                                                                                                            MEMV>O I 09/ 30/2025
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Ciry brtu'('(11 rhr <IIIIJOIII




                                     4.2
                      Resolution 2026-28
 By this resolution the Council will undertake the specified, and
related, actions as part of its budgetary process for the upcoming
                     FY 2026-27 budget cycle.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-28

     A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL (THE " COUNCIL") OF THE CITY OF
    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (THE " CITY") ACKNOWLEDGING THE FILING OF THE
   TENTATNE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2026-27 PREPARED BY CITY'S BUDGET
  OFFICER(THE "BUDGET OFFICER") PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. §10-6-111;
     ADOPTING THE TENTATIVE BUDGET SUBJECT TO FURTHER REVIEW AND
CONSIDERATION BY THE COUNCIL; ESTABLISHING THE DATE, TIME AND PLACE FOR
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE TENTATIVE BUDGET PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF THE FINAL
 BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2026-2027 SUBJECT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF UTAH
 CODE ANN. §§59-2-919 AND 59-2-924; ORDERING PUBLICATION OF NOTICES AS
REQUIRED BY LAW; AND ORDERING THE TENTATIVE BUDGET TO BE AVAILABLE FOR
  PUBLIC INSPECTION IN THE OFFICE OF THE CITY RECORDER AND ON THE CITY'S
  WEBSITE FOR AT LEAST TEN DAYS PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF THE FINAL BUDGET.

         WHEREAS, under UTAH CODE ANN. § l 0-6-l l l.,_ the Budget Officer shall, on or before
the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Council in May, prepare for the ensuing year a tentative
budget for each fund for which a budget is required, make the tentative budget available for public
inspection and submit the tentative budget to the Council; and

       WHEREAS, under UTAH Corn:: ANN. §10-6-11 1, on receipt of the tentative budget the
Council shall review, consider and adopt the tentative budget subject to further amendment or
revision by the Council; and

        WHEREAS, the Budget Officer prepared the tentative budget for fiscal year 2026-2027
(the "Tentative Budget") as required by law and submitted the Tentative Budget to the Council on
5 May 2026, which is the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Council in May; and

      WHEREAS, the Council acknowledges receipt of the Tentative Budget prepared by the
Budget Officer; and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to review, consider and adopt the Tentative Budget
prepared and submitted by the Budget Officer; and

        WHEREAS, the Council wants to review and make any changes to the Tentative Budget
as the Council deems appropriate prior to adoption of the Final Budget for fiscal year 2026-2027;
and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to establish the date, time and place of the public hearing
on the Tentative Budget as required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-6-113; and

       WHEREAS, the Tentative Budget includes a proposed increase in property tax revenue;
and

        WHEREAS, the Council wants to direct publication of notice of the public hearing on the
Tentative Budget as required under UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-6-113 and 63G-30-102; and

        WHEREAS, the Council wants to direct that the Tentative Budget, as amended and
revised, be available for public inspection during normal business hours at the office of the
Cottonwood Heights City Recorder in the Cottonwood Heights City Hall at 2277 East Bengal
Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah and on the City website for a least ten days prior to adoption
of the fiscal year 2026-2027 Final Budget.

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       1.     The Council acknowledges receipt of the Tentative Budget for fiscal year 2026-
2027 prepared and submitted by the Budget Officer.

       2.     The Council adopts the Tentative Budget for fiscal year 2026-2027, as prepared
and submitted by the Budget Officer, subject to further amendment and revision.

        3.      The Tentative Budget for fiscal year 2026-2027, as revised and amended, shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours at the Office of the Cottonwood
Heights City Recorder in the Cottonwood Heights City Hall at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah, and on the City website for at least ten days prior to the adoption of
the fiscal year 2026-2027 Final Budget.

      4.     The Council shall review the Tentative Budget and make changes as the Council
deems appropriate prior to adoption of the Final Budget for fiscal year 2026-2027.

        5.    The Council shall hold a public hearing on the Tentative Budget, with any revisions
the Council has made, prior to adoption of the fiscal year 2026-2027 Final Budget, pursuant to
UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-6-114 on Tuesday, 2 June 2026, beginning at 7:00 p.m. or soon thereafter,
at the Cottonwood Heights City Hall, Cottonwood Heights City Council Chamber, 2277 Bengal
Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

       6.       The Council directs the appropriate City officials to publish notice of 2 June 2026
public hearing on the Tentative Budget as required under UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-6-113 and 63G-
30-102.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-28, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of May 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - - - - - - - - - - -                B y : - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                 2
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea _ Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 5th day of May 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of May 2026.




                                      3
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City brruv-m the ra,,yo,u




                                   4.3
Intended Statement by the City's Budget Officer that the
  Tentative Budget for FY 2026-27 Includes a Proposed
              Property Tax Rate Increase
Scott Jurges, the city's Budget Officer, intends to state that the
City's tentative budget for FY 2026-27 includes a property tax
              rate increase, as required by statute.
Cottonwood Heights
2026/ 2027 Proposed Property Tax Impact Schedule
MayS,2026




Cottonwood Heights will consider an increase to its property tax rate from 0.001300 to 0.001857 (estimated) to generate an
additional $3,500,000. The following information is intended to provide decision makers and the public with an explanation
of how the city's operations wou ld be affected if the property tax rate remains the same.




Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Rate                                                                     0.001300
Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Revenue                                                            $     8,164,663
Proposed Revenue with Tax Change                                                                           $    11,664,663
New Property Tax Revenue to Cottonwood Heights                                                             $     3,500,000

Estimated Increase to Cottonwood Heights Property Tax Rate                                                          42.87%


                                                                                               Monthly               Annual
Estimated Increase to a primary residence of $819,000                                          $20.92              $251.03
Estimated increase to a business valued at $1,000,000                                          $46.44              $557.28




Affected Department                            Budget Without Tax Change             Proposed Budget       Budget Change


General Government Department


       Mayor & Council                                                 385,073                551,629              166,556
       Planning Commission                                               8,000                  8,000
       Legislative Comm & Events                                       153,932                153,932
       Court, Prosecutor & Defender                                    440,000                440,000
       City Manager                                                    734,866                770,239               35,373
       City Hall-Admin Overhead                                        627,729                727,729              100,000
       Finance                                                         570,073                576,586                 6,513
       Attorney                                                        291,500                299,000                 7,500
       Administrative Services                                         814,021                826,534               12,513
       Emergency Management                                             20,300                 20,300
       Information Technology                                         1,298,932              2,033,437             734,505


General Government Total                                              5,344,426              6,407,386           1,062,960




Cottonwood Heights                                           1 of 3     26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
       Impact of No Tax Increase - The General Government Department will have the following funding changes:
       Mayor & Council will not be funded for the printed newsletter, Cottonwood Heights Small Business Association
       (CHSBA), Sustainability events, Legislative Lobbying, and Capital maintenance of Pa rks equipment.
       City Manager w ill not be funded for significant Professional Services (consultants) and training.
       City Hall will not be funded properly for insurance (Auto, Liability, Property) and building maintenance.
       Finance will not be funded for training.
       Attorney will not be funded for subject matter special attorney.
       Administrative Services will not be funded for training and employee wellness.
       Information Technology will not be funded for (!)extensive software licensing, (2)IT security hardware, software, and
       FBI requ ired offsite disaster recovery system, {3)audio visual (AV) system replacement.




Public Safety Department                          Budget Without Tax Change             Proposed Budget         Budget Change


       Police                                                             7,997,630             9,567,556              1,569,926
       Fire                                                               4,963,888             5,173,068                209,180
       Ordinance Enforcement                                               181,279                180,749                    (530)


Public Safety Total                                                      13,142,797            14,921,373              1,778,576


       Impact of No Tax Increase - The Public Safety Department will have the following funding changes:
       Police will reduce five sworn officer FTE's and one office support FTE, reducing the level of service from the 2025-
       2026 Fiscal Year. This will impact all areas of Police services including patrol, canyon traction control, detectives,
       and administration. In addition, there will be no funding for body cameras and vehicle cameras, and training will be
       reduced significantly.
       Fire will reduce Unified Fire Authority funding that equals a red uction in staff at Fire Station 110 from four Firefighters
       per shift to three or three and a half Firefighters per shift.




Public Works Department                           Budget Without Tax Change             Proposed Budget          Budget Change


       Public Works                                                       1,924,157              2,233,096               308,939
       PW Contracts                                                        820,690               1,010,690                190,000


Public Works Total                                                        2,744,847              3,243,786               498,939


       Impact of No Tax Increase - The Public Works Department w ill have the following funding changes:
       Public Works will reduce funding for three FTE's reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal year. Th is
       wi ll impact road maintenance, snowplowing, flood preparedness. In addition, there will be reduced funding for
       required fire hydrant maintenance, and weekly parks maintenance.




Cottonwood Heights                                              2 of 3       26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule -·Tentative Budget
Community & Econ Dev Department              Budget Without Tax Change             Proposed Budget         Budget Change


      Planning & Econ Dev                                             677,600                 837,125              159,525
      Building Engineering & lnsp                                     303,000                 303,000


CED Total                                                             980,600               1,140,125              159,525


      Impact of No Tax Increase - The CED Department will have the following funding changes: reduced funding for one
      FTE that helps with planning and permitting, reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal Year. In
      addition they will significantly reduce Professional Services (consultants) and Training.




                                             Budget Without Tax Change             Proposed Budget         Budget Change


Total General Fund Change                                           22,212,670            25,712,670             3,500,000




Cottonwood Heights                                         3 of 3       26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Cuy bm1w11 1hr r,111JOIIJ




                                   4.4
   Statement of Budget Officer that the tentative budget
        includes a proposed property tax increase
Scott Jurges, the city's Budget Officer, will state that the City's
 tentative budget for FY 2026-27 includes a property tax rate
                 increase, as required by statute.
                                 ( ~,

                          Cottonwood
                          Ci,y btm-em the
                                          Heights
                                      r1111yo111




                                4.5
 The Budget Officer will present and make available to the
   public a Property Tax Impact Schedule as a separate
         document from other budget documents.
     Mr. Jurges will present and make available to the public a
property tax impact schedule as a separate document from other
           budget documents as required by statute.
                                    ( ~\        I


                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City bm,vm the r«ll)OIIJ




                                   4.6
                      Resolution 2026-29
 By this resolution the Council will undertake the specified, and
related, actions as part of its budgetary process for the upcoming
                     FY 2026-27 budget cycle.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION 2026-29

  A RESOLUTION ACKNOWLEDGING THAT A SEPARATE ITEM IS ON THE AGENDA
   FOR THE PUBLIC MEETING ON 5 MAY 2026 NOTIFYING THE PUBLIC THAT THE
   BUDGET OFFICER (THE " B UDGET OFFICER") FOR THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD
   HEIGHTS (THE "CITY") INTENDS TO STATE TO THE CITY'S CITY COUNCIL (THE
"COUNCIL") THAT THE TENTATIVE BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2026-2027 INCLUDES
    A PROPERTY TAX INCREASE; ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THE BUDGET OFFICER
    MADE A STATEMENT TO THE COUNCIL IN THE 5 MAY 2026 PUBLIC MEETING
      THAT THE TENTATIVE BUDGET INCLUDES A PROPERTY TAX INCREASE;
    ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THE BUDGET OFFICER PRESENTED TO THE COUNCIL,
      AS A SEPARATE ITEM ON THE AGENDA, IN THE SAME PUBLIC MEETING, A
       PROPERTY TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE SEPARATE FROM OTHER BUDGET
     DOCUMENTS, AS DEFINED IN UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924; AND DIRECTING
  THAT THE PROPERTY TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE SHALL BE AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC
INSPECTION AND WILL BE INCLUDED AS A SEPARATE AGENDA ITEM AT EACH PUBLIC
       HEARING PRIOR TO JUNE 30 AT WHICH THE COUNCIL DISCUSSES THE
        PROPOSED GENERAL FUND BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2026-2027

        WHEREAS, at a duly-noticed meeting of tlie Council on 5 May 2026 the Budget Officer
presented, for the first time, the fiscal year 2026-2027 tentative budget (the " Tentative Budget")
for the City; and

      WHEREAS, the Tentative Budget includes a proposed property tax increase for fiscal year
2026-2027 generating additional budgeted property tax revenue of $3.5 million; and

       WHEREAS, since the City is proposing a property tax increase, UTAH CODE ANN. §52-9-
2-919(4) requires:

       ... [I]n the public meeting at which the taxing entity's tentative budget is first
       presented to the governing body ofthe taxing entity, an executive officer or budget
       officer of the taxing entity states that the tentative budget includes a proposed tax
       rate increase and presents a property tax impact schedule as defined in section 59-
       2-924 and . . . the.fiscal year taxing entity includes on the agenda for the public
       meeting. .. a separate item notifj1ing the public that an executive officer or budget
       officer of the taxing entity intends to state in the public meeting that the tentative
       budget includes a proposed tax rate increase; and

       WHEREAS, the agenda for the Council's public meeting on 5 May 2026 (the "May 5th
Meeting") was properly noticed as required by law and had a separate item on the agenda notifying
the public that the Budget Officer intends to state in the public meeting that the Tentative Budget
includes a proposed tax rate increase; and

        WHEREAS, in the May 5 th Meeting the Budget Officer stated to the Council that the
tentative budget includes a proposed property tax increase; and
       WHEREAS, a separate item was on the agenda for the May 5th Meeting stating that the
Budget Officer would present and make available the property tax impact schedule (the " Tax
Impact Schedule"); and

       WHEREAS, in the May 5th meeting the Budget Officer presented to the Council for further
review and consideration the Tax Impact Schedule, separate from other budget documents, as
defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924, substantially in the fonn of attached Appendix "A" ; and

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) states that the property tax impact schedule
shall be presented and made available, as a separate document from other budget documents " . . .
at each public hearing held prior to June 30 at which the taxing entity discusses the taxing entity 's
proposed general fund budget for the ensuing.fiscal year period."

      NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the City Council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

       1.      The Council acknowledges that the agenda for the May 5th Meeting, at which the
Tentative Budget was first presented to the Council, was properly posted and noticed as required
by law and that the agenda included a separate item notifying the public that the Budget Officer
intends to state in that public meeting tliat the Tentative Budget includes a proposed tax rate
increase as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4).

       2.     In the May 5th Meeting, the Budget Officer stated that the Tentative Budget includes
a proposed property tax increase as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4).

      3.       In the May 5th Meeting, the Budget Officer presented to the Council the Tax Impact
Schedule, as a separate item on the agenda and separate from other budget documents, as defined
in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4), substantially in the form of attached Appendix "A" as required
by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4).

       4.       The Tax Impact Schedule shall be available during normal business hours for public
inspection at the office of the Cottonwood Heights City Recorder, Cottonwood Heights City Hall,
2277 Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah and on the City website.

      5.      The Tax Impact Schedule shall be presented and made available, as a separate
document from other budget documents, at each public hearing prior to June 30 at which the
Council discusses the general fund fiscal year 2026-2027 budget.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-29, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of May 2026.

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - -- - - --                        B y : - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                                   2
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion            Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay _
                                   Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 5th day of May 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of May 2026.




                                       3
              APPENDIX "A" TO RESOLUTION 2026-29

PROPERTY TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE AS REQUIRED IN UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-
919(4)(a):

                    [Insert Schedule from Scott Jurges]




                                     4
                                 (   ~     I


                         Cottonwood Heights
                         C,ry bm,vm 1hr ranpms




                                4.7
   The City intends to make a statement that the City is
considering levying a tax rate that exceeds its certified tax
  rate, the approximate dollar amount of and purpose for
additional ad valorem tax revenue that would be generated
    by the proposed tax rate increase, the approximate
percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue for the City
  based on the proposed tax increase, and that if the City
 proceeds with the proposed tax rate increase the City will
  provide notice of and conduct a public hearing at which
members of the public will have an opportunity to provide
         comments on the proposed tax rate increase.
     A City officer will make this statement in connection with
 the City's tentative budget for FY 2026-27 which includes a
       property tax rate increase, as required by statute.
                       " "-t'.,1111-C ( ~ \ I

                            Cottonwood Heights
                            City bttuvm tht r111110111




                                    4.8
Statement of the Budget Officer or City Manager pursuant
         to UTAH CODE -ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b).
      The City's Budget Officer or City Manager will make this
 statement in connection with the City's tentative budget for FY
2026-27, which includes a property tax rate increase, as required
                          by statute.
                       APPENDIX "A" TO RESOLUTION 2026-30

STATEMENT AS REQUIRED IN UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b):

Intent. The city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") is considering levying a tax rate that exceeds
the City's certified tax rate.

A:pprnximate Dollar Amount. The approximate dollar amount of the additional ad valorem tax
revenue that would be generated by the prnposed tax rate increas·e is $3.5 million.

A1ppiroxiimate Percentage. The approximate percentage inc1;ease in ad valorem tax revenue for
the City based on the proposed tax rate increase is 42.81%.

Purpose. The purpose for the additional revenue generated iby il:li1e proposed property tax increase
is detailed in ilie Property Tax Imp.act Schedule submitted to the Councill on 5 May 2026.

Tiie City is 1cmnmi1tted to maintaining a high ,quality of hfe for resiid.ents tluough reliable public
servioes, 5mmd inftastructure, and responsible financial management. The proposed property tax
increase iis being ccmsiider;ed ,to ensme the long- tem1 fuiainciai s.tabiility of fhe City and to sustain
essential servi1oes that our community relies upon every day.

A critical component of maintaining high-quality 1mmicip:ai seNioes is the City's ability to retain
experienced aro:d weTI-tmined staff. This is especi·ally important in publiic safety ro}es such as the
City's rpulice .c½epartment, where institutional knowledg,e~ trainillg, a11d continuity directly impact
the safety and w:eH-!being of the community. Wiithou.tremainin:g c.ompetttiv:e for these high-demand
p:@siiti,ons., tb:e Ci,ty risks losin:g skilled emp1oyees to oth:er jurisdrctio1rs, resulting in increased
ttm1over., higlter training costs, and potential disrnptions in serviice levels. luv,estin.g in competitive
compensation and benefits ensmes stability v.rithin the workforce, preserves the City's imvestrn1.ent
in employee training, and supports the consistent de1ivery of ,essential senrices to residents.

[n the 21 y,em:s since the City's in.corporation the City has raised its property tax rate above the
"certified r.alte'' only once-in 2018. That increase onlly baianced the then budget and did not
provide p,lan:ning for any cost increases in future years. For the past several years, the City has
bala111oed its budget by utilizing reserve funds ( also kn(i)Wll as the °'rainy day fund") to cover
ongoing orerational costs. In recent years, the City benefited from unique and temporary financial
,conditions.. Federal recovery funds and two years of ilU1RS1Ua.1ly strong sales tax revenues during
 and following the COVID-19 pandemic helped off.set risi'lil;g costs. A 1arge portion of the reserve
 fimding came from just over $6 million in federal pandemic recovery funds. While this apprnach
 allowed the Ci,ty to avoid further property tax increases from 2018 until now, it is not a sustainable
long-tenn strategy. Continuing to rely on reserves for recurring expenses creates structural
 imbafances that, ifleft unaddressed, wouldjeopardi:ce tile City's financial health.

Sinoe the 2018 property tax increase the cost of providing municipal services has risen
significantly. Inflation has increased the price of goods, services, and labor. Additionally,
advancements in technology, while improving efficiency and service delivery, have introduced
new costs, including those associated with maintaining secure systems and protecting sensitive
information. These necessary inveshnents ensure that the City can operate effectively and securely
in an increasingly digital environment.
                                                     4
In the fall of 2024, voters approved a general obligation bond to fund the development of the Town
Center project. At that time, the City projected that no additional tax increase would be needed for
approximately five years. However, unforeseen complications, including the existence of two
long-term leases, the need to acquire additional property for the project, and other project-related
challenges, have delayed the timeline for this development. While the Town Center is expected to
provide long-term economic benefits and help offset future inflationary pressures once completed,
those benefits are not yet realized.

The current City Council continues to activelyevaLuate aU options to ensure that the Town Center
project delivers maximum value to the colllinunity. At the same time, the City must address
immediate financial realities.

Witihout the proposed tax increase, the City would be required to make significant reductions to
core services, such as public safety, infrastruc'tu:rre mainteRance, and community programs.. The
p11oposed increase is intended to stabilize the City's mill:anoes, reduce reliance on reserves, and
preserve the level of service that rns.idents expect and d.eserve.

The City Council does not take this ,decision lightly and il'emains committed to transparency, fiscal
responsibility, and the long-term well-being of the City.

Opnortimitv t o Provide Comments at a Public Hearh~g. If the City proceeds with the proposed
 tax. rate increase, the City will provide noti1ce of and 001Bduct a public hearing as required by UTAH
CcmE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(c), at which melill'bers of the public will have an opportunity to provide
,comments on the prosed tax rnte increase. The hearing i:s schedulled for Tuesday, 11 August 2026,
 at 6~0 0 rp.m. The hearing date is ,subject to fana,l approval by tlte Salt Lake County Auditor.




                                                   5
                                ( ff\\    I



                          Cottonwood
                          Cuy bnuvm ti~
                                        Heights
                                     r.inyo111




                               4.9
                     Resolution 2026-30
     Consideration of Resolution 2026-30 Acknowledging that a
  Separate Item is Included on the Agenda for the 5 May 2026
   Public Meeting Notifying the Public that the City's Budget
 Officer (the "Budget Officer") or Manager ("City Manager")
  Intends to Make a Statement as Required by UTAH CODE
ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b); Further Acknowledging that the Budget
 Officer or City Manager Made the Statement as Required by
UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b) in the 5 May 2026 Public
Meeting, Setting the Date, Time and Place of the Public Hearing
 on the Proposed Property Tax Increase as Required by UTAH
  CODE ANN. §59-2-919; and Directing the City Manager or
Designee to Send a Notice Before 1 June 2026 to the Utah State
  Tax Commission (the "Tax Commission") and the Salt Lake
County Auditor (the "County Auditor") Stating that the City is
  Considering a Property Tax Increase and the Date, Time and
 Place of the Public Hearing Required by UTAH CODE ANN.
                           §59-2-919.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     RESOLUTION 2026-30

      A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL (THE "COUNCIL") OF THE CITY OF
    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (THE "CITY') ACKNOWLEDGING THAT A SEPARATE
    ITEM IS INCLUDED ON THE AGENDA FOR THE 5 MAY 2026 PUBLIC MEETING
    NOTIFYING THE PUBLIC THAT THE CITY'S BUDGET OFFICER (THE "BUDGET
     OFFICER") OR MANAGER ("MANAGER") INTENDS TO MAKE A STATEMENT
 AS REQUIRED BY UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(B); FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGING
THAT THE BUDGET OFFICER OR MANAGER MADE THE STATEMENT AS REQUIRED BY
UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(B) rNTHE 5 MAY 2026 PUBLIC MEETrNG, SETTrNG
THE DATE, TIME AND PLACE OF THE PUBLIC HEARING ON THE PROPOSED PROPERTY
  TAX INCREASE AS REQUIRED BY UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919; AND DIRECTING
     THE MANAGER OR DES(GNEE TO SEND A NOTICE BEFORE 1 JUNE 2026 TO
      THE UTAH STATE TAX COMMISSlON (THE "TAX COMMISSION") AND THE
      SALT LAKE COUNTY AUDffOR(THE "COUNTY AUDITOR") STATING THAT
   THE CITY IS CONSIDERING A PROPERTY TAX INCREASE AND THE DATE, TIME
 AND PLACE OF THE PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED BY UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919

        WHEREAS, the Council is considering levying a tax rate that exceeds its certified tax rate
for fiscal year 2026-2027; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4) states in part that:

       .. .a.fiscal year taxing entity may levy a tax rate that exceeds the fiscal years taxing
       entity's certified tax rate if. .. on or after May I but on or before June 13, thefiscal
       year taxing entity states at a public meeting:
       (AJ that the fiscal year taxing entity is considering levying a tax rate that exceeds
       the fiscal year taxing entity's certified tax rate;
       (BJ the approximate dollar amount ofand purpose for additional ad valorem tax
       revenue that would be generated by the proposed tax rate increase described in
       Subsection (4J(b)(i)(AJ;
       (CJ the approximate percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue for the fiscal
       year taxing entity based on the proposed tax rate increase describe in Subsection
       (4)(b)(i)(AJ; and
       (DJ that if the fiscal year ta.xing entity proceeds with the proposed tax rate
       increase, the fiscal year taxing entity will provide notice of and conduct a public
       hearing, as required by Subsection (4)(cJ at whfoh members of the public will have
       an opportunity to provide comments on the proposed tax rate increase; and

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b) further requires that before a fiscal year
taxing entity may levy a tax rate that exceeds the fiscal year taxing entity's certified tax rate, such
entity includes on the agenda of the public meeting at which a statement is made as required by
UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b) a separate item that notifies the public that the fiscal year taxing
entity intends to make the statement described in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b); and
       WHEREAS, the agenda for the Council's 5 May 2026 public meeting includes, as a
separate item, that the City intends to make the statement described in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-
919(4)(b); and

       WHEREAS, in the 5 May 2026 public meeting the Budget Officer or Manager made a
statement to the Council substantially similar to the statement set forth in attached Appendix "A";
and

       WHEREAS, the Council intends to hold a public hearing on the proposed property tax
increase as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919 on Tuesday, 11 August 2026, at 6:00 p.m. or
soon thereafter, subject to change by the Cotmty Auditor; and

       WHEREAS, on or before 1 June 2026 the Manager or designee must notify the County
Auditor and the Tax Commission of the City's intent to increase property tax.es, and the date, time
and place of the truth-in-taxation public hearing to be conducted by the Council on 11 August 2026
at 6:00 p.m. or soon thereafter, with the hearing date being subject to change by the Cmmty
Auditor, all as required under UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919 (8)(a)(i).

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        1.      The Council acknowledges that the agenda for the 5 May 2026 public meeting
included, as a separate item, th.at the City intends to make a statement that the City is considering
levying a tax rate tliat exceeds its certified tax rate, the approximate dollar amount of and purpose
for additional ad valorem tax revenue that would be generated by the proposed tax rate increase,
the approximate percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue, and if the City proceeds with the
proposed tax rate increase the City will provide notice of and conduct a public hearing at which
members of the public will have an opportunity to provide comments on the proposed tax rate
mcrease.

       2.       The Council acknowledges that the Budget Officer or Manager made a statement
substantially similar to the statement in attached Appendix "A."

       3.     The Council sets the public bearing on the proposed property tax increase pursuant
to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-91 9 for Tuesday, 11 August 2026 at 6:00 p.m. or soon thereafter at the
Cottonwood Heights City Hall, Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers, 2277 East Bengal
Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, with the hearing date being subject to change by the County
Auditor.

        4.      As required under UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919 (8)(a)(i), on or before 1 June 2026
the Manager or designee shall notify the County Auditor and the Tax Commission of the City's
intent to increase property taxes for fiscal year 2026-2027 and that the Council will conduct a
public hearing as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919 on Tuesday, 11 August 2026 at 6:00
p.m. or soon thereafter at the Cottonwood Heights City Hall, Cottonwood Heights City Council
Chambers, 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-30, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.
                                                 2
    PASSED AND APPROVED this 5th day of May 2026.

ATTEST:                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                         By : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                        VOTING:

                                        Gay L ynn Bennion           Yea_Nay_
                                        Matt Holton                 Yea_Nay_
                                        Suzanne Hyland              Yea_Nay_
                                        Shawn E. Newell             Yea_Nay_
                                        Ellen Birrell               Yea_Nay_

    DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder tl1is 5th day of May 2026.

    RECORDED this _ day of May 2026.




                                           3
                      APPENDIX "A" TO RESOLUTION 2026-30

STATEMENT AS REQUIRED IN UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(b):

Intent. The city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") is considering levying a tax rate that exceeds
the City's certified tax rate.

Approximate Dollar Amount. The approximate dollar amount of the additional ad valorem tax
revenue that would be generated by the proposed tax rate increase is $3.5 million.

Approximate Percentage. The approximate percentage increase in ad valorem tax revenue for
the City based on the proposed tax rate increase is 42.87%.

Purpose. The purpose for the additional revenue generated by the proposed property tax increase
is detailed in the Property Tax Impact Schedule submitted to the Council on 5 May 2026.

The City is committed to maintaining a high quality of life for residents through reliable public
services, sound infrastmcture, and responsible financial management. The proposed property tax
increase is being considered to ensure the long-term financial stability of the City and to sustain
essential services that our community relies upon every day.

A critical component of maintaining high-quality municipal services is the City's ability to retain
experienced and well-trained staff. This is especially important in public safety roles such as the
City's police department, where institutional knowledge, training, and continuity directly impact
the safety and well-being of the community. Without remaining competitive for these high-demand
positions, the City risks losing skilled employees to other jurisdictions, resulting in increased
turnover, higher training costs, and potential disruptions in service levels. Investing in competitive
compensation and benefits ensures stability within the workforce, preserves the City's investment
in employee training, and supports the consistent delivery of essential services to residents.

In the 21 years since the City's incorporation the City has raised its property tax rate above the
"certified rate" only once-in 2018. That increase only balanced the then budget and did not
provide planning for any cost increases in future years. For the past several years, the City has
balanced its budget by utilizing reserve funds (also known as the "rainy day fund") to cover
ongoing operational costs. In recent years, the City benefited from unique and temporary financial
conditions. Federal recovery funds and two years of mmsually strong sales tax revenues during
and following the COVID-19 pandemic helped offset rising costs. A large portion of the reserve
funding came from just over $6 million in federal pandemic recovery funds. While this approach
allowed the City to avoid further property tax increases from 2018 until now, it is not a sustainable
long-tenn strategy. Continuing to rely on reserves for recurring expenses creates structural
imbalances that, if left unaddressed, would jeopardize the City's financial health.

Since the 2018 property tax increase the cost of providing municipal services has risen
significantly. Inflation has increased the price of goods, services, and labor. Additionally,
advancements in technology, while improving efficiency and service delivery, have introduced
new costs, including those associated with maintaining secure systems and protecting sensitive
information. These necessary investments ensure that the City can operate effectively and securely
in an increasingly digital enviromnent.
                                                  4
In the fall of 2024, voters approved a general obligation bond to fund the development of the Town
Center project. At that time, the City projected that no additional tax increase would be needed for
approximately five years. However, unforeseen complications, including the existence of two
long-tenn leases, the need to acquire additional property for the project, and other project-related
challenges, have delayed the timeline for this development. While the Town Center is expected to
provide long-term economic benefits and help offset future inflationary pressures once completed,
those benefits are not yet realized.

The current City Council continues to actively evaluate all options to ensure that the Town Center
project delivers maximum value to the community. At the same time, the City must address
immediate financial realities.

Without the proposed tax increase, the City would be required to make significant reductions to
core services, such as public safety, infrastructure maintenance, and community programs. The
proposed increase is intended to stabilize the City's finances, reduce reliance on reserves, and
preserve the level of service that residents expect and deserve.

The City Council does not take this decision lightly and remains committed to transparency, fiscal
responsibility, and the long-term well-being of the City.

Opoortunitv to Provide Comments at a Public Hearing. If the City proceeds with the proposed
tax rate increase, the City will provide notice of and conduct a public hearing as required by UTAH
CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4)(c), at which members of the public will have an opportunity to provide
comments on the prosed tax rate increase. The hearing is scheduled for Tuesday, 11 August 2026,
at 6:00 p.m. The hearing date is subject to final approval by the Salt Lake County Auditor.




                                                 5
