Meeting Requested:        Business Meeting IZl   Work Session ~   Other 0
Public Hearing Needed?    Yes D No IZl Undetermined □

CM Approval or Denial     Denied □    Approved~~-Cozn inued 0
                                                 .y,:
                                                       1
~ -- - - - -- - - C_M_S_ig_n_at_u_re_:=--=---- ~"'-"~=
                                                     -~= ·=-=<---
                                                              ======::::._- - - - - - - - - _ _ J



Agendas -Agendas for May 19, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 4/7/2026 and 4/21/2026.

CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING

3.0    REPORTS
3a.    Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC) Erin Do,vns and Amber Widdison
3b.    Youth City Council Recognition of Outgoing Officers Co1111cilme111ber Suzanne Hyland

4.0    STAFF REPORTS
4a.    Bengal/Highland Intersection Matt Shipp
4b.    Fireworks Map Discussion Riley Pilgrim
4c.    Budget Discussion Scott Jurges
4d.    The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a Property Tax Impact
       Schedule as a separate document from other budget documents. Scott Jurges

CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

6.0    REPORTS
6.1    Public Works Report Matt Shipp
6.2    CH Police Department Report ChiefRusso/Candie Teny

7.0    Action and Disclosure Items
7.1    Ordinance 464
7 .2   Ordinance 465
7.3    Ordinance 466
7.4    Ordinance 467
7.5    Resolution 2026-31
7.6    Resolution 2026-32
                     AGENDAS

                    May 19, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, May 19, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https://www.voutube.com/(tv,CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     l.     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                     Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (J0-15 min.)

              3.     REPORTS
                   a. Valley Emergency Communications Center - Erin Downs and Amber
                      Widdison (30 min.)
                   b. Youth City Council Recognition of Outgoing Officers - Councilmember
                      Suzanne Hyland (20 min.)

              4.     STAFF REPORTS
                     (Each week the city council and sta_[fprovide informational reports as a method of
                     keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe dty. This agenda item is set aside to
                     allow council members to ask questions or.for staff to bring the council up to date
                     regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Bengal/Highland Intersection Project
                        Public Works Director Matt Shipp (20 min.)
                   b. Fireworks Map Discussion
                        Battalion ChiefRiley Pilgrim (20 min.)
                   c. Budget Discussion
                        Finance Director Scott Jurges (45 min.)
                   d. The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a
                      Property Tax Impact Schedule as a separate document from other budget
                      documents.
                       Finance Director Scot! Jurges (IO min.)



              5.     REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                     a. Senior Social Bingo- Wednesday, May 20th from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m.
                        in the Community Room at City Hall
                     b. Public Works Open House for Residents - Wednesday, May 20th from
                        5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the Public Works Building
     c. District 4 Town Hall Meeting - Wednesday, May 20th from 6:00 p.m.
        to 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers at City Hall
     d. Memorial Day - Monday, May 25 th, 2026 (City Hall Closed)
     e. Summerhill Park Ribbon Cutting- Tuesday, May 26, 2026 at 12-noon.
     f. Shred Event-Monday, June 1, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside
        Plaza (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit)
     g. CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to
        12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
     h. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026
     1. Block Party/Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at
        Hillside Plaza

     *For more information, please visit CH.UTAH.GOV and click Communitv
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                          Cottonwood Heights
                                          City berw,,,m the mnyons


            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS l\1EETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, May 19, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at cityrecorder(a)ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE - By Invitation

               3.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
               3.1     Committee Reports by Councilmember Matt Holton (3 min.)
               3.2     Committee Reports by Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (3 min.)
               3.3     Committee Reports by Councilmember Shawn Newell (3 min.)
               3.4     Committee Reports by Councilmember Ellen Birrell (3 min.)
               3.5     Committee Reports by Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (3 min.)

               4.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes.for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments lo the City Council when
                      invited lo do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not at/end the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments lo the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Writ/en comments that are submitted timely will be admitted into the
                      record qf the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      pubhc meeting.
5.0   OATH OF OFFICE
5.1   Swearing-In of Youth City Cow1cil 2026-2027

6.0   REPORTS
6.1   Public Works Report -Public Works Director Matt Shipp
6.2   CH Police Department Report - Chief Robby Russo/Candie Terry

7.0   ACTION ITEMS
7.1   Consideration of Ordinance 464 Enacting Code Chapter 9.63, Community
      Clean Energy Program
      ([his ordinance will amend the city code by enacting new Chapter 9.63 causing
      the city's to participate in the Community Clean Energy Program under the
      Community Clean Energy Act, UTAH CODE ANN. 54-17-901 to -909).
7.2   Consideration of Ordinance 465 Amending Code Sections 19. 75.050 and
      19.76.030 Regarding Separate Utility Meters
      (This ordinance will amend the city code to allow the installation ofseparate utility
      meters on certain residences).
7.3   Consideration of Ordinance 466 Adopting a Revised Map provided by
      UFA showing the hazardous areas in the city being closed to fireworks
      ([his ordinance will adopt a revised map provided by UFA showing the hazardous
      areas in the city being closed to fireworks. A copy of the proposed new map also
      is al/ached.).
7.4   Consideration of Ordinance 467 Granting a Cable TV System Franchise to
      Comcast of Utah II, Inc.
      ([his ordinance will grant to Comcast of Utah II, inc. a franchise to operate and
      maintain a cable television system within the city on certain terms and conditions).
7.5   Consideration of Resolution 2026-31 Approving an Agreement with H.W.
      Lochner, Inc. for Design Services for the Bengal Blvd. Pedestrian Trail
      (By this resolution the council will approve an agreement with whereunder the
      named provider will provide design and advertising se111ices for Phase I of the
      city's Bengal Blvd. pedestrian trail as provided in the agreement).
7.6   Consideration of Resolution 2026-32 Consenting to Appointments to the
      Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee
      (By this resolution the council will consent to the manager's reappointment of
      three members of the city's historic committee).

8.0   CONSENT CALENDAR
8.1   Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
      Meetings of April 7, 2026, and April 21 , 2026.

9.0   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
      During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
      not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen conunent. (Code of Ordinances 2.30. 160 (B)). Any person wishing
      to comment on any item not otherv.rise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
      during the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
      shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their
      name, state if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
      district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall lin1it their conm1ents to
      no more than three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who
      are present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who sha ll limit their comments to no more than five
      (5) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City
      Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment
      more than once during that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
      Mayor, City Council or City Staff during the meeting.
      The City Council may choose to lim it the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
      In such cases, special procedures for detenn ining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
      speakers will be cletennined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
      submitted written comments will be entered into the reco rd, distributed to the City Council but not read
      at the public meeting.



011 Thursday, May 14, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in theji-o11tfoyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. A copy of this notice was sent to the Saft Lake Tribune
and Deseret News, newspapers o.fgeneral circufatio11 in the city, by the Office ofthe City Recorder. T11e agendas were
also posted 011 the City's website al 11ww.cl1.11tah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at hllp:/lp11111.111uh.g<JI'.

DATED this 14'" day of May 2026                                  Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The c ity building for this meeting is accessible. 111 compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people ·with
disabilities may make requests/or reasonable acco111111odation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801 -944-
7015 or recorder@ ch.uwh. ~01·, at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 4/7/2026 and 4/21/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCfL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY,APRIL 7, 2026.AT 4:00 PM lN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD
COTTONWOOD IlEIGHTS. UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council
                           Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems
                           Administrator, Alex Earl; Public Works Director rmd City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Battalion Chiet Riley Pilgrim

1.0     WELCOME-Mavor Gav Lvmz Be1111io11.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSfNESS MEETING AGENDA- Mavor Gav Lv1111 Be1111io11.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance and Citizen
Comment Period would be followed by two proclamations.

Two Action Items were on the agenda. Item 4.1 was Consideration of Proclamation 2026-0 l
Celebrating Arbor Day. It will be the 50th anniversary of Arbor Day. She thanked Planner III,
Maverick Yeh, for his efforts in obtaining the Tree City USA recognition from the Arbor Day
Foundation. Item 4.2 was Consideration of Proclamation 2026-02 Designating Public Works
Week.

Action Item 5.1 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-1 8 Approving and Ratifying a Grant
Agreement with the U.S. Departrnent of Transportation. By this agreement, the Federal Highway
Administration ("FHWA") will provide $400,000 in Safe Streets and Roads for All ("SS4A")
funding conditioned on a $ 100,000 City match.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, reported that the City applied for two grants approximately
two years previously, but they were held up due to changes related to the federal election. The
funding was now available and could be used to complete a safety action plan for the entire City.
The City match was a percentage, and they would only be required to match $100,000 if the entire
grant was used. If approved by the City Council and finalized by the FHWA, they could then
move fo1ward with engaging an engineer to perfonn the study.

Council Member Hyland asked if the resolution would require a budget amendment. Council
Member Holton asked if money was already set aside for the proj ect. Mr. Shipp reported that he
did not yet have estimates on the study cost, but the expense would likely be paid through the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       1
Capital Projects Fund in the next budget year. Council Member Holton stated that he was in favor
of the project if funds were available. Finance Director, Scott forges, remarked if funds are
available at the end of the budget year, they can be utilized for the project. Otherwise, additional
funding may need to be appropriated . Mr. Shipp stated that they had not budgeted for the project
because it was unclear when the grant funding would be available. The City had several large
projects scheduled for summer, and the capital projects budget was tight.

Council Member Bin·ell asked for clruification on the supplemental planning schedule and final
report date referenced on Page 3 of the document. Mr. Shipp stated that the final report is due,
and funds must be spent within 18 months of the date the contract is signed. Council Member
Bin·ell asked if that was a realistic timeline to complete tl'.e. Comprehensive Safety Action Plan
("CSAP"). Mr. Shipp stated that the timeframe was realistic, but it is a reimbursement agreement
so budget must also be considered. The agreement would not cmmnit the City to the full grant
amount, but the City was responsible for 20% of the total project cost.

Council Member Holton expressed support for moving forward with the intention of using existing
capital projects funds. Mr. Shipp stated that nvo large projects will be bid out within the next few
months, and he will have more detailed infonuation once the bids come in. That will also provide
time to issue a request for proposals and detennine the actual cost for the CSAP.

Council Member Bill"ell remarked that she did not see infonnation on the supplemental plan
mentioned on Page 9. Council Member Hyland stated that it would fund the citywide CSAP that
the Council had discussed and help create a prioritization matrix so infrastructure dollars can be
invested appropriately. Council Member Holton added that it will also help the Council better
communicate with citizens who express concern because they will be able to provide specific
infonnation on where safety issues fall on the list of priorities.

 Council Member Birrell was also concerned that state routes would be excluded from the CSAP
 as her constituents are affected by State Routes_219 and 190. Council Member Holton stated that
 the issue may be cost. Council Member Hyland remarked that it had been studied elsewhere. Mr.
 Shipp clarified that the study will also review and recommend improvements to intersections. The
 City cannot design or make those improvements, but it can study them. No specifics were available
 as it is a general agreement between Cottonwood Heights and the FHW A. They had agreed that
 the study area could be expanded to the city boundaries. If the agreement was signed, they would
 have the option to move forward. Otherwise, that option would not be available.

 Item 5.2 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liaison to the
 Youth City Council ("YCC"). Mayor Bennion thanked Council Member Bin-ell and Aim and Scott
 Bracken for leading the YCC. Council Member Bi1Tell would be stepping down as Liaison, and
 Council Member Hyland would take on that role.

 Council Member Bin-ell stated that it had been an honor to be the YCC Liaison for the past two
 years.• (*corrected tt of years) The YCC is different from a citizen committee in that it has its own
 charter, which states that the advisor may be appointed from full-time career employees of the City
 or a community volunteer. She checked with the president of Utah Youth Councils, who indicated
 that many cities choose a staff member for that position to maintain continuity. Cottonwood

  Cottonwood Heights City Counc/1 Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         2
Heights had the luxmy of Mr. and Mrs. Bracken volunteering and providing that continuity for
many years, but the City would be seeking a new volunteer. Mayor Bennion reported that Mr. and
Mrs. Bracken had served the City for 20 years, and there would be a three-week application process
for new volunteers.

Council Member BiITell stated that often, a parent of a YCC member volunteers as an advisor due
to their familiarity with the program. She was excited that Council Member Hyland was stepping
into the role ofliaison and hoped that Council Member Hyland would enjoy it as much as she had.

Council Member Binell introduced YCC Mayor, MmyA.1111 Jensen. Ms. Jensen provided an
overview of the program, which is a way for the youth of Cottonwood Heights to be involved in
the community and leam what happens behind the scenes. TI1ey meet twice each month, typically
on the first and third Thursday at 4:30 p.rn. Topics include educational meetings where they learn
about specific roles in the community. For example, Police Chief, Robby Russo, recently spoke
about his position. They also have service activities, including making quilts and cleaning !Tails,
as well as social activities. They assist at City events, including Butlerville Days, the Easter egg
hunt, Monster Mash, and Light the Heights.

Ms. Jensen had been part of the YCC for four years since she }earned about it in her eighth-grade
history class. She was excited to join-and make a difference in her community. She served as the
Public Re1ations Officer in her first year and the Education Officer in her second year. For the
past two years, she has been the YCC Mayor. During that tirne, she had seen what she promised
at the presentation at Butlerville Middle School, and what she read in the charter was not what she
received. She hoped _that during the transition period, the City could have more youth leadership
through service. During her four years, she was able to make some events happen, but she also
had to fight to do so. She also had to fight to get t-shirts made. She hoped that the youth of
Cottonwood Heights wou1d not have to continue fighting for the opportunity to lead in their
leadership group:

Item 5.3 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-20 Approving Appointments to the Planning
Commission. Conunissioner Bames had moved, so he would become an at-large member and
Commissioner Lugo would be appointed to hi s vacated seat. Item 5.4 was Consideration of
Resolution 2026-2 1 Approving an Independent Conh·actor Agreement for Event Planning and
Coordination Services. Item 5.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Amending Surplusing
Requirements to surplus a 30-year-old vehicle.

Council Member Newell acknowledged Council Member Hyland for her effo11s du1ing a recent
community event. Over 80 residents attended, and Council Member Hyland created an
environment that was conducive to conversation. The event was non-contentious, and residents
provided ve1y valuable feedback on issues the City was cuJTently facing. The way that she delves
into issues and creates a base of information that allows people to understand the matter is
phenomenal. The event lasted much longer than planned, but was well worth it, and he had
received many phone calls from residents grateful for the event. Council Member Holton stated
that he had received phone calls from residents who expressed gratitude for both Council Member
Hyland and Council Member Newell.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                       3
Mayor Bennion remarked that she had heard there were 170 attendees. She thanked Council
Member Hyland, Council Member Newell, and City Staff for their efforts on the event and
responsiveness to residents. She would like to hold additional meetings on the budget and
encouraged the Council to engage with residents on all topics, especially the budget.

Council Member Hyland stated that the event was organized by residents, which may have been
why it was so well-received. Only two Council members can attend a meeting that is not publicly
noticed, and she believed residents felt more comfo1table discussing different subjects because it
was not a fonnal meeting. It was a beautiful night of coming together. Mike Hansen started the
meeting by reminding everyone to remember civility and decornm, which set the tone for the
meeting. It was tense at the beginning, but as they modeled civil dialogue, the atmosphere shifted
to one of collaboration.

3.0       REPORTS

          3.l    Central Wasatch Commission - Li11dsev Nielsen. Executive Director.

Executive Director, Lindsey Nielsen, presented the Central Wasatch Commission ("CWC")
Annual Report. The CWC is an interlocal governmental entity that grew out of the Mountain
Accord process signed in 2015. Cottonwood Heights became a member in 2017. Since that time,
they have worked to convene the major jurisdictions along the Wasatch Front and Wasatch Back
to discuss issues such as transportation, recreation, environment, and the economy of the Central
Wasatch Mountains. Members include area cities and counties, as well as non-voting members
High Valley Transit, Utah Transit Authority ("UTA"), and Metro Water, and special advisors from
Solitude Mountain Resort and Save Our Canyons.

The CWC's po1tfolio of\vork has grown over time, including the creation of the Ski Bus Priority
Access Program in 2021. Since its inception, ski bus travel time has decreased by an average of
50 minutes.

The Central Wasatch Symposium is an annual two-day conference with expert panels, interactive
workshops, and networking. Over 200 people attended in its first and second years. In 2026,
Shoshone elder Darren Parry was the keynote speaker.

The CW C's sho1t-tenn project grant program was created in 2020 and has disbursed hundreds of
thousands of dollars for projects such as:

      •   Trailhead batlu·oom maintenance;
      •   Backcountry ski shuttle in Little and Big Cottonwood Canyon;
      •   Maintenance of fixed-rock anchor hardware on climbing routes across the Central
          Wasatch; and
      •   Abatement of graffiti tags across the canyons.

The Central Wasatch National Conservation and Recreation Area Act ("CWNCRA") is the CWC's
cornerstone project. The issues that the Mountain Accord was created to address were still present

 Cottonwood Heigh ts City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026       Approved: _ _ __ _         _

                                                         4
and, in many cases, had gotten worse, and the CWC in the process of modernizing the legislation
with a new draft.

The CWC is funded through member contributions and legislative appropriations. Since its
inception in 2017, membership dues had not increased, but costs and inflation had. This created a
severe deficit in the cu1Tent fiscal year and required drastic measures. To address the issue, Sandy
City Mayor Zolanski created the CWC Funding Committee, which directed staff to analyze
membership contributions over the years. The quantitative analysis sought to standardize
membership contributions across juiisdictions, which historically had been based on the original
Mountain Accord agreement. The qualitative analysis considered the quality of life the CWC
provides to each member jurisdiction, its stake in the CWNCRA legislation, and the placemaking
value of a healthy Wasatch.

Cottonwood Heights' scores were as follows:

    •   Quality of life: 3
    •   Stake in legislation: 4
    •   Placemaking value: 3
    •   Total score: I 0

Based on the analysis, the total quantitative aod qualitative contribution for Cottonwood Heights
was $59,000, a slight increase over the City's historic contribution of $50,000.

In response to a qu~tion from Council Member Hyland, Ms. Nielsen reported that the CWC
received $250,000 in State funding for 2026 and $100,000 in 2025. State funding varies, and it is
difficult lo build a budget around variable revenue. Mayor Bennion noted that it was $200,000 in
prior years. Ms. Nielsen stated that Senator Kirk Cullimore is a friend of the CWC who sponsored
their app,ropriations request. C~uncil Member Hyland remarked that in a meeting with Senator
Cullimore; 1hey discusse_d the need for the legislature to acknowledge that Cottonwood Heights is
a gateway city but it does not receive appropriations like other gateway cities. She asked
Ms. Neilson to reinforce that need, as it is an asset but also an expense to the City.

Council Member Hyland asked about funding for a Millcreek shuttle. Ms. Nielsen reported that
the funding was not approved, but t11e project was not dead. The CWC was discussing resubmitting
the approp1iations request it1 a future legislative session.

Council Member Bi1Tell stated that she supports Cottonwood Heights continuing in the CWC. If
the CWNCRA was passed, it would afford real protection for Little Cottonwood Canyon. The
designation would allow for things like timed entry and have a positive impact on City residents'
quality oflife by alleviating traffic issues and preserving the canyon. The CWC is instrumental in
advancing that legislation, and bringing it to fmition would be a remarkable accomplishment for
the region and state. Ms. Nielsen noted that it would also provide an opportunity for more funding
and resources.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _   _   _ __

                                                       5
Council Member Hyland stated that the City Council would like to be able to afford to continue in
the CWC, but that would be part of the broader budget discussion because the City was also facing
a large deficit.

        3.2     South Valley Chamber - Jai• Frn11cis1 President and CEO.

South Valley Chamber of Commerce President and CEO, Jay Francis, inh·oduced the South Valley
Chamber staff: Dana Reid, Member Services Director; Miriam Dixon, Director of Marketing;
Jayme Jensen, Vice President and Managing Director; Cory Covington, Vice President of Business
Development; and Diana Lund, Business Development Coordinator. He then presented the South
Valley Chamber's 2025 Annual Report.

The South Valley Chamber's activities are divided into five categories:       Connect, Educate,
Advocate, Grow, And More.

Connect

    •   Ambassador Committee: 25 members
    •   Government Affairs and Public Policy Committee: 25 members
    o   Small Business Committee: 38 members
    •   Tou1isrn Committee: 35 members
    •   Women in Business Committee: 24 members
           o 24 Junior Women in Business participants, each of whom receive a $1,000
               scholarsliip

Educate

    •   Leadershir South Valley: 27 graduates
    •   Business Accelerator: 14 graduates
    o   Everyday Entrepreneur: 14 partici.pants
    e   Business Boot Camp: 4 events with 127 attendees

Advocate

    e   Roundtables
    o   Executive Fornms
    o   Meet the Candidate
    o   Over 25 bills were tracked during the legislative session
           o In the Know
           o The Big Beautiful Bill
    •   Wasatch Front Regional Council
    •   Legislative Review with Senator Fillmore and Representative Eliason




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       6
Grow

   •    Connect After Hours: 7 events with 606 attendees
   •    Let's Do Lunch: 5 events with 728 attendees
   •    Meet the Member: 5 events with 396 attendees
   •    Women in Business: 10 events with 1,275 attendees

And More

   •    Golf Tournaments: 3 tournaments with 430 participants
   o    Titan Awards: 4 honorees with over 650 attendees
            o Small Business of the Year Award
   o    Shark Tank: 10 student businesses were pitched, and $9,500 in p1ize money was awarded

Mr. Francis provided an update on the South-Valley Tourism Committee. In association with
Sport Salt Lake, they brought in almost 180,000 visitors and 41,000 room nights. The $88,000
investment had an economic impact of over $66 million. 2025 tourism campaigns included the
Winter Towi.sm Campaign and Staycation Campaign.

The top five sports events for 2025 were identified as:

        1.      USA Gymnastics 2025 Regional Championships
        2.      National Archery in the Schools Program 2025 Region One Championship
        3.      USA Gymnastics 2025 Development Program National Championships
        4.      Triple Crown Sports 2025 Western International
        5.      Jam On It 2025

ln 2026, the South Valley Chamber will be focused, strategic, and purpose-driven. Goals include:

    •   Service and community impact;
    •   Business growth and economic development;
    •   Member retention and value; and
    •   Public policy leadership.

Mr. Francis reported that the 2026 Small Business Impact Award will be presented to Eight Settlers
Distillery and Restaurant on May 5. He appreciates the South Valley Chamber's partnership with
Cottonwood Heights as it helps extend economic development capacity throughout the City,
strengthen communication and trust, advance shared priorities, and strengthen the community
brand.

Council Member Hyland remarked that the South Valley Chamber's education offerings are so
valuable but seem underntilized and asked how the City can help increase participation.
Mr. Francis stated that he would love to increase participation in the Business Accelerator
program. It meets for two hours every other Tuesday, which can be difficult for small businesses.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       7
The ideal program size is 25 to 28 participants, and there is also a scholarship available for that
program .

         3.3     Health in the Heights Committee - Chelse)I Voss1 Chair.

Health in the Heights Coalition Chair, Chelsey Voss presented the Committee Report. Her
background is in nursing and population health, and improving citizens' health and quality of life
is very impo1tant to her.

The Coalition follows the Communities that Care framework, a nationally recognized framework
that includes five phases. Phases 1 and 2 were completed in 2025. All board members completed
a three-part community board 01ientation where they learned about prevention science, risk and
protective factors, and created a vision statement and workgroups.

They were currently completing Phase 3, Developing a Community Profile, which include:

    •    Establishing workgroups and moving through workflows.
    •    Attending data workgroup workshops to understand Student Health and Risk Prevention
         ("SHARP") data and selecting coalition priorities.
    •    Writing and distributing a Cotlllllunity Assessment Repmt based on the above data.
    •    Forming a Resource Assessment Workgroup to identify resources and assess gaps m
         programmmg.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Ms. Voss reported that the SHARP
survey is completed every two years by students in the Brighton cone, which includes Brighton
High School and all schools that feed into it. Public Health Coordinator, Sondra Stephens added
that students in grade six and higher opt in to the survey and must have parental consent. It was
previously conducted in odd years but will be conducted again in Fall 2026. The data is protected
and specific i.nfonnati.on cannot be provided in a public meeting, but it is discussed in closed
meetings.:

 Ms. Voss reviewed Phase 4, Create a Plan.

    •    Develop a community action plan.
    •    Select tested and effective programs, policies, and practices to target selected priorities.
    •    Identify and secure needed resources and funding.

 Cottonwood Heights was officially recognized as a Healthy Utah Community in October 2025.
 The designation is valid through 2028, at which point they will need to select new strategies and
 reapply.

 The following workgroups were established in Phase 2:

     •    Community Outreach and Public Relations



 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes f or April 7, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         8
           o Promotes National Drug Take Back Day on April 25 and the drug take back box at
              City Hall.
          o Created a flyer to be used at community events.
          o Wrote an ruiicle featuring Health in the Heights for the December City newsletter.
   •   Board Maintenance
          o Wrote committee bylaws.
          o Created a mission statement.
          o Established board member spotlights lo keep the board engaged.
   •   Youth Involvement
          o Creating a list of youth-involved organizations in the community .
          o Creating outreach emails for potential partnership with these organizations.
   •   Data
          o Attended workshops to learn how to read and analyze SHARP survey data.
          o Identified priority risk factors and behaviors based on the above data.
          o Writing the Community Assess11!ent Report.

Ms. Stephens provided an overview of the Coalition's chosen priorities. A detailed Community
Assessment Report will be presented to key leaders on April 30. Mayor Bennion and Council
Member Newell will be attending, but it is not a public meeting, so all Council Members cannot
attend. Cottonwood Heights is doirig well in many areas; there are ample opportunities for pro-
social involvement and it ranks high in family attachment and teacher/student relationships.

Risk factors increase the likelihood that youth will engage in problem behaviors. Based on SHARP
data, identified priorities include:

   •     Low Corrunitment to School
            o Youth often say that they enjoy school but may not find it meaningful, which can
               lead to substance ·use or negative behaviors.
    • ,iAccess and Perceived Availability of St1bstances
      -=    o Youth often qverestimate how many of their peers engage in substance use. When
               perceived use is higher, they may feel pressured to engage in the behavior. Patterns
               are also shifting; for example, nicotine pouch use has increased.
    • Parental Attitudes Favorable to Antisocial Behavior
            o A high percentage of students reported that they drink alcohol at someone's house
               with parental pennission. Others perceive that their parents would be okay with
               them drinking alcohol or stealing an item that costs $5 or less.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Holton, Ms. Stephens reported that the
piiorities were chosen based 011 how the City compares to the state as a whole. Cottonwood
Heights is doing very well overall, but the priorities are 1isk factors that are trending in the wrong
direction.

Council Member Hyland remarked that nicotine is addictive and has a negative health benefit, but
it is not mind-alte1ing like alcohol and marijuana. Regarding parental attitudes, she hoped that the



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       9
Coalition's education effm1s spilled over into attitudes about ebikes because it would be traffic to
see someone seriously injured or killed due to lax parental attitudes.

Next steps for the Health in the Heights Coalition include:

      •   Developing the Community Assessment Repmt.
      o   Establishing the Resource Assessment Work Group.
              o Workshops will be held to identify gaps in existing program and how to fill them.
      •   Creating a Community Action Plan.

Ms. Voss thanked Mayor Bermion and the City Council for their engagement and support. Council
Member Holton thanked Ms. Voss for her time and commitment to the committee. Council
Member Hyland remarked that there was a lot of debate and healthy skepticism about fonning the
Coalition, and she stood corrected on how impactful it could be. She was grateful for the amount
of time Ms. Stephens and the volunteers had committed. In response to a question raised by
Council Member Holton, it was confinned tb al m!lny parents sit on the committee and membership
is very diverse.

Mayor Bennion stated that the Heal!h in the Heights Coalition is an example of one that needs a
staff member to help it fully function, but it is also the epitome of what the City wants to achieve
in allowing its citizens to effect positive change. Council Member Hyland indicated that the tested
framework is one of the reasons why the Coalition is so effective. Council Member Birrell agreed
and noted that Ms. Stephen's salary is funded for three years through a federal grant administered
by Salt Lake County.

          3.4    Legislative Debrief - Brian Allen mu/ Chantel Allen.

The above item was postponed.

4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Sapling Sale Update - Commwzitv and Economic De11elop111e11t Director, Jim
                 Sptlll(!.


Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that the sapling Sale will
be held on Saturday, April 25 from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.rn. at City Hall. The City purchases the
trees wholesale from a nw-sery and offers them to residents at a subsidized rate. In response to a
question from Council Member BiLTell, Mr. Spung stated that the cost is not affected by the Tree
City designation, but the event is recognized as pait of the Tree City program. Details and pricing
are available on the City website, as well as links to infonnation on eating for caring for the trees.
Leftover trees will be planted in parks and medians by the Public Works Department.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Spung reported that the Parks, Trails,
and Open Space Committee had purchased 20 trees, and 70 trees will be available to the public.
They can be preordered or purchased at the event.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026           Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                      10
Council Member Bil1"ell stated that she appreciated Planner III, Mave1ick Yeh's work on the
website. Resident Helen McCarty will have a table at the event and help educate citizens on how
to care for specific trees, as well as waterwise landscaping and the Flip Your Strip program. The
Family Support Center will hold its Pinwheels for Prevention event on the same day for Child
Abuse Prevention Month. They need 30 volunteers to help set up pinwheels at 9:00 a.111. in the
City Hall parking lot. Mayor Bennion noted that the City recognizes National Child Abuse
Prevention Month and asked if the Council had an objection to the event taking place at City Hall.
Volunteers need to set up and take down between 2,500 and 3,000 pinwheels. Council Member
8i1Tell stated that it should only take one to two hours depending on the number of volunteers.
There were no objections. It was noted that the Health in the Heights C01m11ittee and Youth City
Council may be interested in assisting. Mr. Gerber stated that he would forward the infonnation
to various committees.

Council Member Hyland reported that 49 people attended the Localscapes class. Mayor Bennion
stated that some residents have suggested that the City should record those events and share them
to the website.

        4.2     Culture Division Update -Administrative Sen1ices Director, Barbara Higgins.

Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, reported that due to the budget shortfall,
Mr. Gerber asked each department head to evaluate their departments and make cuts where
appropriate. It was decided that changes should be made to the Culture Division, and the Culture
Coordinator position had been eliminated through attrition.

Ms. Higgins recognized that the City would not l:le able to maintain the same level of service
without those Full-Time Equivalent ("FTE") employees, but she had been impressed by staff
members who had stepped up to help. Adminish·ative Services Assistant, Lindsey Webb, has taken
over events and did a great job ,vith the Easter Egg Hunt. Business Development Coordinator,
Sydney Pierce, has assumed responsibility for room rentals and special event permits.

The Culture Manager was the Liaison for the Arts Council, and Staff was considering restructuring
the Arts Council as an advisory board to bring it into compliance with City Code. They were in
tlrn process of detennining how to best empower residents and volunteers to be more involved and
were excited at the opportunity to provide residents with more control over City events. Staff
observed the Bluffdale Arts Advisory Board, which is volunteer-led and does not have a dedicated
staff member. Each board member chairs a separate subcommittee. The board maintains the Zoo,
Arts, and Parks ("ZAP") Grant, and members talked about how empowered they feel as residents
to be able to determine what events are held in Bluffdale. Ms. Higgins expected the transition to
be slightly challenging, but the cuts were necessary to address the budget short.fall.

Mr. Gerber reported that there were some challenges and lessons leamed. The Historic Committee
was now under the Community and Economic Development Depattment, which was the st.rncture
in most cities. Historic committees are typically more focused on preservation of structures, but
the Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee focuses on prese1vation of history. New room rental
fees were being implemented, and fees had been added for use of the kitchen and audio-vis ual

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      11
equipment. The fees will be used to fund ongoing costs for cleaning and equipment replacement.
A non-refundable cleaning deposit is now required to ensure that the carpets and furniture can be
cleaned regularly.

Ms. Higgins repo1ted that the City had contracted out for Butlerville Days. Mayor Bennion,
Council Member Hyland, and Staff have met with the contractor, and Staff will continue to meet
with them regularly. In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Ms. Higgins
reported that some members of the Butlerville Days Committee resigned in response to the
changes, but the contractor has been in contact with the remaining members and was in the process
of setting up a meeting.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that a citizen spoke 1..vith her about a skateboard competition that
was previously associated with Butlerville Days but was discontinued approximately three years
previously. She asked who they should speak with about reestablishing the event. Ms. Higgins
reported that they should contact Ms. Webb. However, the event may bave been discontinued due
to liability issues. ·Council Member Bi!1"ell rerfll!!"ked that participants in the pickleball tournament
a.re required to sign a waiver, and sbe would like to find a way to hold events like this to help
teenagers feel like part of the community.

Mr. Gerber stated that the decision had been made to only have a drone show this year due to the
dry conditions and budgetary constraints. TI1e City Council and Staff would likely receive
complaints because people love fireworks, but it was the right decision. They had asked the
contractor to hold a debrief after the event to discuss what was and was not successful and what
could be improved. TJ1e City Council could then discuss what it would like Butlerville Days to
look like in the future. Ms. Higgins added that they should also discuss other events, including
ones they would like to k~ep, reduce, or eliminate.

Council Member Hyland stated that Butlerville Days may need to be reduced to one day. She
noted tbit Mun-ay charges a fee for its Easter egg hunt; residents pay $2, and non-residents pay a
higher .fee. She had heard complaints that the City's event drew people from outside of the
community, so that could be an option. Change is hard, and staff reductions are particularly hard.
She appreciated Staff for looking c1itically at where savings can be found. At the meeting she
attended with Council Member Newell, when residents were asked directly about the services they
wanted to give up, the conversation changed dramatically, as they did not want services like
snowplowing or police cuts.

 Mayor Bennion stated that the City values the Arts Council, but it was a difficult time, and the
 budget must be addressed. She hoped that in the long tenn the committee would be even stronger.

 Council Member Bin-ell stated that it is important to align with Health in the Heights and the City's
 stated sustainability goals, and perhaps 5,000 plastic eggs full of plastic-wrapped candy was not
 appropriate. She believes that citizens would appreciate the City addressing whether some things
 are suitable for the time we live in, and she found the Easter Egg Hunt to be greedy and out of
 aligmnent with Christianily. Many of her constituents were glad that there would not be fireworks
 this year. She appreciated that the City was gathering feedback aud engaging the public.


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026             Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       12
Council Member Hyland asked for an update on the fireworks map. Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim
reported that it was in process. He would have a draft to Mr. Gerber within one to two weeks, and
it would be presented to the City Council at its first meeting in May. Mayor Bennion stated that
she attended Fire School in March, and it was a great experience.

       4.3      Annexation Discussion - Citv Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Bennion reported that the discussion was requested by Council Member Hyland, as there
are communities that would like to join Cottonwood Heights. Council Member Hyland added that
the Council needed to have a healthy discussion about what would be required ofthem. Mr. Gerber
stated that City Attorney, Shane Topham, sent out a memo on the subject earlier that week.

Council Member Hyland stated that she received a phone call on March 18 from a resident of the
unincorporated Creek Road East area, which was in the process of annexation prior to the
legislature's 2025 rule change requiring Plaiming Commission review and public hearings. That
extra step was a banier to either staiting a citil.en-led petition or the city annexation process for
residents of the area. A further catalyst was the 18,000-square-foot home that caught fire, where
the Cottonwood Heights Police Department was first at the scene. Accessibility of first responder
services is an important consideration, and the area is much closer to Cottonwood Heights. She
received multiple phone calls after the fire asking about the status of the annexation. The City had
been through three recent aimexations, all of which had different processes and created a burden
on Staff. The conunitment to annex Creek Road East would include appropriations because
surveys will be required. Sandy started annexing only a few homes at a time, and that option was
recommended to her by Salt Lake County Council Member Lamie Stringham.

Council Member Hyland noted that the fire complicated things slightly because the land value had
changed. In response to a question, l'vu:. Topham reported that a city-initiated annexation requires
signed consent from 75% or-more of the affected citizens. Council Member Holton stated that the
City initially considered individual households but discovered that property value was a factor.
Mr. Topham clarified that it requires 35% of the total land area, representing at least 75% of the
value of ptivate real property within the aimexation area.

Council Member Hyland stated that the signature of the owner of the seven-acre property was the
equivalent of 21 other households, but there was no longer a home on the prope1ty. Council
Member Holton indicated that it could be even more complicated because the County may not
have reassessed the property. In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Mr. Jurges
reported that the prope1ty owner could request a reevaluation of the property for the next year
because it has decreased in value. However, the new value may not be applied until 2027.

Mr. Topham rep01ted that the 75% requirement in context to mmexations without a petition was
only ge1mane to whether protests must be considered.

There are four types of annexations that can occur without a petition:

        1.      The area consists of one or more unincorporated islands or peninsulas contiguous
                to the municipality; and

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026           Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      13
            • The majority consists of residential or conunercial development;
            11 The area proposed for annexation requires the delivery of municipal-type services;
            • The municipality has provided most or all municipal-type services to the area for
                more than one year.

       2.    The area to be annexed consists of one or more unincorporated islands within or
             unincorporated peninsulns contiguous to the 1mmicipality, each of which has fewer
             than 800 residents; and
          • The municipality has provided one or more municipal-type services to the area for
             at least one year.
       3.    The area consists of an unincorporated island within or an unincorporated peninsula
             contiguous to the municipality; and
          o No more than 50 acres.
       4.    The area to be annexed consists only of one or more unincorporated islands in a
             county of the second class, whLch does not apply to Cottonwood Heights.

Mr. Topham believes the overarching issue is the new Utah Code Section 10-2-803, Annexation
Policy Plan. The City can only annex if an Annexation Policy Plan is in place. If the area is in the
expansion area of both Cottonwood Heights and Sandy, both cities would have to agree to an
annexation without a petition.

Council Member Hyland stated that to move forward, the Annexation Policy Plan would have to
be quickly drafted and acloj:>ted, and a citizen petition would likely be required. Mr. Topham
clarified that if the expaA1sioi1 areas do not overlap, a petition or agreement with Sandy would not
be necessary. Council ~ember Hyland indicated that Sandy did not provide services to the subject
area. Mr. Gerber noted that Sandy may provide water to a portion of the area.

Council Memoer Hyland stated that she would like to either have the City's commitment to the
a1U1exation or direction to exp1ain to the citizens that annexation cannot be pursued due to
prohibifiye factors. Her preference was to consider a1mexatio11 because of how quickly first
responders can reach the area. It took the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Department 30 minutes to
arrive at the fire. Council Member Holton stated that if the citizens were interested in being part
of the City, he was in support of clearing a path for them to do so.

Council Member Bin-ell asked if Staff had the resources to supp01t the annexation. Ms. Higgins
reported that the previous annexations required a lot of City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen's, time.
Mr. Topham noted that there were three aimcxation petitions at once, all with di ffereot
requirements, and Ms. Janzen bore most of that burden. He believes one larger annexation will be
easier than multiple smaller aimexations. In response to u follow-up question from Council
Member Biffell, Council Member Hyland stated that the estimated property tax revenue would be
between $125,000 and $150,000 per year, and additional staff would likely not be required to
service those residents.

How the previous annexations affected the Public Works Deparhnent was discussed. Mr. Shipp
stated that one annexation included some miles of public roads, but they did not have a large

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      14
impact. He would need to review the map to detem1ine potential impacts of a Creek Road East
annexation. Mayor Bennion asked about the burden the potential annexation would place on Staff.
Mr. Shipp stated that it was their j ob and they could make it happen. A survey costs approximately
$8,500, depending on the size of the area. Council Member Hyland remarked that the City had
committed to citizens that it would pay the filing fees of $350 to $500.

Council Member Hyland reported that the annexation would need to occur prior to July 2027 when
the area will be automatically annexed into Sandy. She also preferred to collect signatures in
summer. Residents collect the signatures, but she facilitated the efforts in previous annexations.
Mr. Gerber reported that a petition would be required as the area is included in Sandy's annexation
policy plan. Aerial and boundary maps of the area were reviewed. It is east of Willow Creek
Drive and includes Robidoux Road, 2760 East, and Etienne Way. Details of the previous
annexations and the history of the area were also discussed.

After further discussion, the City Council de~m1ined that the City should move forward with
creating an Annexation Policy Plan with the intention of annexing the area.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mr. Topham reported that signatures
cannot be collected until the Annex~tion Policy Plan is in place. The process begins with a Notice
oflntent being filed with the County. A smvey should not be conducted until the plan is adopted.
He noted that State Code states, "In preparing a proposed Annexation Policy Plan, the Planning
Commission shall attempt to avoid gaps between or overlaps with the expansion areas of other
municipalities," and the area will completely overlap with Sandy's expansion area. Mr. Gerber
reported that the Sandy plan was adopted in January 2025, prior to the new niles going into effect.

Water and other services to the area were discussed. Council Member Hyland stated that she will
follow up with the affected citizens and infonn them of changes since their initial conversations,
including the bond and potential property tax increase.

5.0      REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

         5.J     Local Sapling Sale - Saturday, April 25, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p .m. in the
                 Parking Lot at City Hall.

         5.2     Shred Event-Monday, June I, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                 (open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit).

         5.3     CHaRM Hard-to-Recvcle Event - Sah.ffdav, June 6, 2026, 10:00 a.m. to 1:00
                 p.m. at Hillside Plaza.

         5.4 , Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026.

 In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Ms. Higgins reported that proof of
 residency in the fonn of identification or a utility bill is required for the Shred event. Mr. Gerber
 stated that the box size needs to be specified. Council Member Holton remarked that some


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       15
Cottonwood Heights residents have a Sandy mailing address. That issue was discussed, and Mr.
Topham indicated that it should be addressed with the post office.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:22 PM.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026    Approved: _   _   _ __

                                                        16
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 7. 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton, Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council
                           Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Systems
                           Administrator, Alex Earl; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Unified Fire A~thotity Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim

1.      WELCOl.\'IE

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.      PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Chester Frantz reported that he lives on Top of the World Drive. The Community Renewable
Energy Act was passed by unanimous vote. The Utah Puhlic Service Commission also approved
the Utah Community Clean Energy Program and stated, "The general consensus of all patties in
the approval of the program is that the program is in the public interest." He distributed a handout
to the City Council outlining the program's value. When compared to Blue Sky, Utah Renewable
Communities saves residents approximately four times more. He understands the concern about
hidden subscription fees, but the service provides the value of 100% renewable energy. He
currently uses 760 kilowatt hours per month, which generates $40 in external costs to health and
climate that society must pay. Enrolling in Utah Renewable Communities will save those external
costs. The program provides six months to cancel, and they intend to send several mailings to
educate residents. The website is also very easy to use.

Shannon Haley stated that she is ll resident of Cottonwood Heights and a mother of two. She was
present to ask the City Council to adopt Utah Renewable Communities. Reducing reliance on colll
and gas will benefit our health and enviromnent. Everyone experiences smokier summers from
wildfires, the shrinking snowpack, and poor air quality. Those changes affect children's health,
recreation, and the local economy, and transitioning to cleaner energy is one of the most direct and
responsible things that can be done to protect the Wasatch environment. Cities across Utah

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      17
including Salt Lake City, Park City, and Moab have already joined the effort. They see renewable
energy not as a luxury but as a common-sense step to protect health, water, and economic stability.
Transitioning to renewables creates local jobs and strengthens energy independence. Opting into
the program does not force anyone to choose renewables. It simply gives residents and busi nesses
the option to support cleaner power. If the City Council opted out, that decision would remove
the choice for all residents and lock Cottonwood Heights out of a cooperative effort that many
cities are already joining. Clean, renewable energy means healthier air, long-term cost stability,
and a safer future for our children. Adopting this Act shows that Cottonwood Heights is ready to
take responsibility for its part in building a sustainable future, and she asked the City Council to
consider that in their vote.

Maggie Mills provided updates on Whitmore Librmy events for April. The Murray Senior
Recreation Center Jeannie Luke Choir's "Sp1ingtime in the Roclcies" concert will be on Thursday,
April 9, at 5:00 p.m. A puppet show will be held on F1iday, April 10, at 11 :00 a.m. The Babcock
Performing Readers will perform "Voices from_RMS Titanic" on Thursday, April 16, at 7:00 p.m.
A Dia de los Ninos Party will be held on Saturday, April 25, from l 0:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. The
Bella Vista Elementary Art Show begins on April 13 and runs through May 15. The National
Diabetes Prevention Program's yearlong evidence-based lifestyle change program for people
diagnosed with or at 1isk of develQPing pre-diabetes is conducted by the Utah Department of
Health and Human Services on Mondays at 6:00 p.rn. Other events are listed on the Library's
website calendar.

William McCan ill lives on Golden Hills Avenue and was present to speak on Resolution 2026-
                  1


18. Before grant funging was considered, he believed citizens were entitled to see a full workout
of not only the initial $100,000 expenditure but also lifetime costs to the City for maintenance,
repairs, insurance, etc. The City was experiencing financial difficulties, and he asked where the
$100,000 would come from and what would be cut to maintain a balanced budget and provide
ongoing support of the project over other deserving projects. He believes every "free money" offer
should 1:equire a similar disclosure, including projects like the shooting range. He asked for
infom1ati6n on what it will cost the City to build and maintain that facility. Without that
information, he did not believe the City was operating h·ansparently. He asked that the resolution
be postponed unlil the public was provided with complete infonnation. He also asked that the City
Council vote yes on Utah Renewable Communities. He generates 75% of his own electdcity and
would like to increase that to 100%.

State Senator Kathleen Riebe spoke on Utah Renewable Communities. She believes it is a fantastic
opportunity that only 19 cities can be part of. The bill was sponsored by David Hin.kins and Trevor
Lee, and that was one of the only times she agreed with Mr. Lee. It is a great opportunity to lean
into renewable energies and put their money where their mouth is, and she asked that the Council
consider adopting it.

Casey Stanldewicz is a Cottonwood Heights resident and a lifelong resident of Utah. She is a
mother and teacher. She was present to speak on behalf of Utah Renewable Communities, as she
believes it is vital to have sustainable energy. There have been times when her students could not
go outside for recess because the air quality was too poor. She is concerned about the health of
the City's youth and hopes that the City Council considers adopting the program.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026          Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      18
Ben Donner stated that he lives on Newp01t Way and was present to express support for the Utah
Renewable Communities program. It is obvious from the past winter that clumite health,
specifically the Wasatch snowpack, is at risk from climate change. He would like to see support
at the federal and state levels, but did not expect it, so it was up to communities. It is an important
program, and he hoped that the Council would consider adopting it.

There were no ftuther comments. The Citizen Comment period was closed.

4.     PROCLAMATIONS

        4.1     Consideration of Proclamation 2026-01 Celebratin2. Arbor Dav.

Mayor Bennion reported that it is the 50th anniversary of Arbor Day. Cottonwood Heights has
historicatly made sustainability a high priority, and she thanked everyone involved in continuing
those effmts. The Aplil 25 Sapling Sale will be part of the City's Arbor Day celebration.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Proclamation 2026-01 Celebrating
Arbor Day. The motion was seconded by Council Member Bin-ell. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Council.

        4.2      Consideration of Procl:11nation 2026-02 Designating Public Works Week.

Mayor Bennion stated that the Public Works Depa1iment does invaluable work for the City and is
appreciated. Public Works Week will be May 17 through 23 and will include events for
schoolchildren.

Council Member Binell pmiicipated in the 2025 event, and the demonstration for schoolchildren
was s~ fantastic that she nsked Mr. Shipp if the event could be opened to citizens of all ages.

 MOTION: Council Member Bin-ell moved to APPROVE Proclamation 2026-02 Designating
 Public Works Week. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. The motion passed
 with the unanimous consent of the Council.

 5.      ACTION ITEMS

         5.1     Consideration of Resolutiou 2026-18 Approving and Ratifying a Grant
                 Agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation. (By this resolution
                 the Council will approve t!,e Citv's entry into a contract w/,eremuler the U.S.
                 Department of" Tra11sportatio11 ,viii provide $400,000 in FY 2024 "Safe Streets
                 and Roads for All" grant fi111di11g to the City, co11ditio11ed 011 the Citv's pl'ovision
                 0{$100,000 in 11wtc/1i11g fuuds).

 Mayor Bennion repo1ted that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. During that
 discussion, they learned that the grant can be modified to any amount that fits within the project.


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       19
The project has been considered by the City for several years, and the monies will be used for safe
streets.

Mr. Shipp reported that the $ 100,000 City match had been allocated in the Capital Projects Fund,
but they were not required to use the full amount. Mayor Bennion stated that the City also
considers ongoing maintenance costs.

Council Member Hyland agreed that the City does not have to take the full grant, but a CSAP
could help priotitize where infraslmcture dollars are spent. She understands the budget concerns.
However, if the full amount had already been allocated within the capital improvements budget, it
was a win-win situation to move forward and allow the City to take advantage of the grant if they
so choose.

Council Member Birrell thanked Mr. Mccarvill for bringing up the importance of conducting an
analysis of both immediate and long-term costs associated with accepting grant monies. It is
burdensome for Staff to apply for grants, and_§he believes the matter should be studied prior lo
taking time to apply for them. The CSAP will not require ongoing operations and maintenance,
and the Council hoped that it would save Cottonwood Heights money over time by providing
clruity on how best to p1i0titize projects. Safety should be the City's number one priority.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-18 Approving and
Ratifying a Grant Agreement with the U.S. Department of Transportation. The motion was
seconded by Council Member BilTell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Hyland-Yes; COLmcil
Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor
Be1rnion-Yes. The rnotion passed unanimously.

        5.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-19 Approving Appointment of a Liaison to
                the Youth City Council. (Bv t/ris resolution, the Co1111ci/ will approve tlie
                appoint111e11t of Co1111ci/111ember Suza1111e Hvla11d as the Council's liaison to t/re
                Youtlt Citv _Cozmcil.)

Mayor Bennion reported that t!1e City has a very vibrant and active Youth City Council. Council
Member Bin-ell served as the l iaison for four years, and the City Council appreciates the
opportunity to share those experiences. Council Member Hyland would now have the opportunity
lo serve.

MOTION: Cow1cil Member BitTell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-19 Approving
Appointment of a Liaison to the Youth City Council. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
       5.3      Consideration of Resolution 2026-20 Approving Appointments to the Planning
                Commission. (Bv this resolutio11 the Co1111ci/ will approve tile 111a11agel''s
                reassig11111e11t and appoi11t111e11t of planning commissiouers Garrv Barnes and
                R11st11 Lugo due to A1r. Bames' recent cfumge of residence from District 2 to
                District 3).

Mr. Gerber reported that a Planning Commissioner relocated to a different district, so he would
become an alternate and an alternate Commissioner would be moved into that position.

Council Member Hyland reported that applications are being accepted to fill three Planning
Commission seats as some tenns expire in July. In response to a question raised by Council
Member Birrell, l'v1r. Spung confirmed that there are openings for Districts 3 and 4, as well as one
at-large seat that is open to anyone in the City. The Pla1u'lirig Commission consists of seven regular
and two at-large members, and currently, only one at-large seat is filled. Council Member Hyland
remarked that the email sent to the City Council indicated the open positions were in Districts 2
and 3 and asked Mr. Spung Lo confinn that info11nation.

MOTION:      Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-20 Approving
Appointments to the Planning Conunission. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council
Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimous!y.

         5.4     Consideration of Resolution 2026-21 Appro\'ing an Independent Contractor
                 Agreement for Event Planning and Coordination Services. (Tltis resolution
                 will approve the Citv's ellfn• into ,111 i11depe11de11t contractor agreemem
                 w/zeremuler Ballard Venues LLC will pl'ovide event pla1111im; a11d cool'di11atio11
                 services for the Cit11 's 2026 "Butl en•ille Davs" communitv event sclzedu/ed for
                 16-18 Juli' 2026).

 The above item was discussed du1ing the Work Session.

 MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-21 Approving an
 Independent Contractor Agreement for Event Planning and Coordination Services. The motion
 was seconded by Council Member Hollon. Vote on Motion: Council Member Bin-ell-Yes:
 Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes;
 Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

          5.5     Consideration of Resolution 2026-22 Amending Surplusing Requirements.
                  (This resolution will amend the 111i11i11111111 bid. metlzod o(<letermi11ing 111i11im11111
                  bid, aud/or millit,mm bid amount specified in Resolution 2025-68 ('or a certain
                  surplus 1998 l11temati01wl "Co111111a11d Post" vehicle that lws failed to attract
                  acceptable offers at its current price).

 Mayor Bennion reported that the above resolution would surplus a command post vehicle that is
 30 years old and the City had been unable to secure a buyer for.

  Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         21
1\-lOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-22 A.mending
Surplusing Requirements. The motion \Vas seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Bin-ell-Yes; Council Member I-Iolton-
Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Be1mion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0    CONSENT CALENDAR

        6.1     Approval of the Minutes for the Cilv Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of February 17, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of February 17, 2026. Tbe motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

7.      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS lVIEETING

IVIOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.




  Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026   Approved: _ _ __    _


                                                         22
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, aud complete record of the
Cotto11111ood Heig/rts Ci(v Co1111cil Worf, Session and Busiuess Meetings lield 011 Tuesday,
Aprt'I 7, 2026.




Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ __ __ __ __




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 7, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       23
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CITY COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Bin-ell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton (via Zoom), Council Member Suzanne Hyland,
                           Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham;
                           Finance Director, Scott Jnrges; Police Chief, Robby Russo;
                           Administrative Services Dire~tor, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                           Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                           Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City
                           Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.0     WELCOME - Mavor Gay Lynn Benuion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA-Mayor Gav L11m1 Be1111io11.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that Administrative Services Director,
Barbara Higgins, will lead the Pledge of Allegiance, followed by City Council Committee Rep01ts
and the Citizen Comment Period. Finance Director, Scott Jurges, will then present the Finance
Quarterly Report.

There were five Action Items. Item 6.1 was Consideration of Ordinance 463 Approving a Second
Driveway Exception at 1720 East 6670 South.

Item 6.2 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to Agreement for
Building Services for the City's contract with Sunrise Engineering.

Item 6.3 was Cousideration of Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to the
Architectural Review Commission. By this resolution, Scott Peters and Jesse Allen would be
reappointed to the Commission.

Item 6.4 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-25 Decla1ing Certain Property Su1plus to dispose
of a Ford F-150 owned by the City.

Item 6.5 was Consideration of Resolution 2026-26Approving Entry into an lnterlocal Agreement
with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands for Participation in the Wildland Fire
Program. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, City Attorney, Shane
Topham stated that the City had two financial obligations in the agreement, one for $10,338 and
one for approximately $1,500. City Manager, Jared Gerber added that the $1,500 in matching or
in-kind fonds is for UFA to clear the Wildland Urban Interface areas, and the $10,338 is the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026      Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                       1
required Wildland Fire Program conttibution. Council Member Hyland asked for clarification on
whether the funds were already budgeted or would require appropriation.

Council Member Newell stated that if residents have concerns about wildfires, UFA will perfom1
an analysis of their property and the sun-ounding area. They will also pick up and dispose of any
vegetation that residents remove from forested areas around their homes. The funds are used to
help provide those services.

Mr. Gerber reported that the $10,338 is paid to the State for participation in the Cooperative
Wildfire System. If a fire were to occur within Cottonwood Heights, the City would not incur any
additional expenses.

Mayor Bennion stated that the Watershed Restoratiorilnitiative and other programs at the state
level are leading the nation in coordinating efforts to reduce wildfire 1isk. Utah also partners with
the federal government in the Shared Stewardship Program. The programs are coordinated and
time-tested to reduce wildfires.

3.0        REPORTS

           3.1    Visit Salt Lake - Tyson Lvbbert, Chief Sales Officer.

Chief Sales Officer, Tyson Lybbe1t, repo1ted that Visit Salt Lake is a 501(c)(6) nonprofit
corporation similar to a chamber of commerce. Their mission is to promote visitors and tomisrn
in Salt Lake County. They are responsible for booking the Salt Palace Convention Center and
Mountain America E?(-pO Center, as well as sporting and ski events for individuals and groups.
Most similar organizations are Destination Marketing Organizations ("DMO") as marketing is a
primary focus. Visit Salt Lake's primary focus is 011 delive1ing experiences, and they are moving
toward becoming a Destination Sales and Experience Organization ("DSXO"). Their three pillars
are recruiting, retaining, and activating with signature events like the skijoring event in downtown
Salt Lake City.

 Mr. Lybbe1t repo1ted on the importance of Salt Lake County's visitor economy, which:

      "    Supports 56,300 jobs;
      .,   Offsets household tax burdens by nearly $ 1,700 annually;
      •    Generates $575 million in tax revenue; and
      ..   Is a $6.15 billion industry.

 Most out-of-state visitors lo the county are from nearby states like Colorado and Idaho, but many
 are also from Texas and eastern states. A total of 14% of visitors go to Big or Little Cottonwood
 Canyons, second only lo downtown Salt Lake City. Big Cottonwood Canyon is the number one
 area attraction on TripAdvisor, followed by Temple Square. However, only 5% of visitor dollars
 are spent in the canyon area.




  Cottonwood /-/eights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                          2
Salt Lake CoW1ty had not experienced the drastic decrease in international travel seen by other
areas of the country. A large portion of international visitors lo the area are from Canada. The
new airport has the capacity to add more flight volume, and its airlift is very competitive with other
destinations. South Korea presents high growth opportunities, as there is now a direct Salt Lake
City-lncheon flight. In response to a question raised by Mayor Bennion, Mr. Lybbert confirmed
that the data was on people who exit the airport. Council Member Hyland stated that she was
surptised at the number of visitors from South Korea. Council Member Newell remarked that it
is likely due to the University of Utah partnership. Mr. Lybbert reported that the direct flights
began approximately one year previously and had reopened the Asian market, and the upcoming
Olympics would increase international opportunities.

Annual visitors to Salt Lake County have exceeded pre-pandemic numbers. Visit Salt Lake
actively tracks 12 cities, of which Salt Lake City is number one. Hotel revenue had grown by 28%
from 2019 to 2025. In comparison, Phoenix was number two at 22%, and the average was 6%.
Denver and Los Angeles had not yet exceeded pre-pandemic numbers. Salt Lake County's growth
trajectory is largely due to investments in the au-port, ente1tainment, and sports.

Mayor Bennion remarked that it is -significant that 88% of travel to the area is for leisure.
Mr. Lybbert clarified that they use the tenn "leisure" for all individual travel, so some business
travelers also fall into that category.

Mr. Lybbert stated that people want to experience something when they travel. Even if they are
traveling on business, they can visit Big Cottonwood Canyon, for example. People are interested
in those types of experiences, and Cottonwood Heights is uniquely positioned to offer them.
Council Member Holton asked abo-ut demographics. Mr. Lybbe1t reported that demographic data
was not available, but younger generations are typically more active and adventurous. Business
travelers may not do the same things, but they do value being able to see and do things.

Council Member Hyland stated that the experience element was imp01tant in thinking about the
Town Center. Travelers increasingly choose multi-sensory, story-worthy moments over
traditional sightseeing, and it was encouraging to think that the City could create such a moment
within the Town Center.

Mr. Lybbe1t stated that to his understanding, the City was contemplating hotels in both the Town
Center and Gravel Pit, which would provide an opportunity to capture the 9% of visitors to Big
Cottonwood Canyon who do not stay in the area. Cottonwood Heights already has many of the
elements that need to be in place for a visitor economy lo thrive, including a sense of place and
iconic experiences. A vernge revenue per room in the area is approximately $130, so a 140-room
hotel would generate $6.5 million in annual room revenue and $1 million in Transient Room Tax
("TRT') revenue. Ii1 response to a question raised by Council Member Binell, Mr. Lybbert
clarified that the $ 130 per room figure is Revenue Per Available Room ("RevP AR"). Rev PAR is
calculated by multiplying occupancy by the average daily rate and is how hotels measure success.
Actual room rates are higher. The disttibution of TRT funds was discussed.



 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        3
Regarding experiences, Visit Salt Lake determined that visitors are looking for multi-sensory
engagement: What does the destination sound, smell, and look like? An example of a multi-
sensory expe1ience would be being able to leave yow- hotel and experience the crisp mountain air
in Big Cottonwood Canyon.

There are opportunities to work with USA Cl-imbing to develop a route at the base of the canyon.
Council Member Bi1Tell stated that the office space in the northeast area of Cottonwood Heights
is called Class A office space but some p eople who work in that arena would disagree because it
does not have the walkability and residential component of downtown Salt Lake City, for example.
Mr. Lybbert stated that the City Council needed to consider what it wants the City to be, and
accessibility is imp01iant. Parku1g is critical, as are considerations like where people will eat and
what they will do. The visitor economy comes into the conmrnnity, and the same elements that
make Cottonwood Heights great for its residents will benefit visitors.

Council Member Hyland remarked that in Visit Salt Lake's presentation to the Chamber of
Commerce, they indicated that drivability and parking were important assets for visitors.
Mr. Lybbert stated that, to Council Member Birtell's point, downtown is very walkable. However,
visitors and even residents of Salt Lake County avoid going there due to concerns about navigating
and p arking in the area.

Council Member BitTell stated that cities in the Salt Lake Valley would benefit from a more viable
transit system. Mr. Lybbert agreed that reliable public transportation is very important and noted
that Visit Salt Lake had been involved with finding solutions for the Utah Transit Auth01ity
("UTA") Ski Bus. C:'.ouncil Member Birrell indicated that it would be helpful if Visit Salt Lake
advocated for the State to think about transit in a more thoughtful way, as she believes all cities in
the area would be supportive of transportation alternatives. Mr. Lybbert stated that they discuss
the issue with UTA frequently and would be happy to support the City in those efforts. Council
Member Hyland remarked that it could be like Steamboat Springs. You have to dlive there, but
they have a wonderfttl transit system once you are there.

Mr. Lybbert stated that Visit Salt Lake new branding effo1t was for America's Mountain City.
There is no other major city like Salt Lake City, and they want to capitalize on that experience for
both leisure and convention b usiness. Regarding parking and drivability, it is important to find
workable solutions to improve the experience for both residents and visitors.

Experience ideas to btiog people to the City include:

     •   Vistas and observatories;
     •   A climbing wall; and
     •   Adaptable event space.

Salt Lake City will host the Olympics in 2034, and Visit Salt Lake's marketing efforts wil1 begin
in earnest after the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. The 2002 Olympics changed the city in many
ways, and they believe the upcoming event will have a similar lasting impact and legacy.
Professional sports will also be a big part of the city's future. They now have a hockey team and


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                        4
are a frontrunner for a baseball team due to the existing mechanism to build a stadium. Between
tlu·ee and five million visitors are anticipated for the Temple Square Open House to be held April
through October 2027.

Mr. Lybbert stated that Visit Salt Lake was available to help with infonnation or analysis on the
visitor econo111y in relation to upcoming City projects. Council Member Birrell slated that it would
be helpful to have more infonnation on how the intennodal hub at the Gravel Pit can encourage
visitors to linger in Cottonwood Heights. She is interested in transit opportunities, and there were
cunently only plans for a 2,000-stall parking garage.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1      Economic Development Strategv Discussion - City Manager, Jared Gerber.

Mayor Be1mion stated that as they meet wit~1 the owner of the Gravel Pit and Town Center
development team, they need the assistance of someone with experience in that type of
development to ensure the best possible outcome for the City. Current Staff did not have that
expertise, so the City Council needed to discuss the best path forward. One option would be to
hire an Assistant City Manager with experience in guiding cities through this type of development,
and the second option would be to contract wi lh a professional to provide that service.

Council Member Hyland stated that she discussed the matter with the fonner Draper City Manager,
who was with that city for 20 years and has substantial economic development experience. The
City needs someone with expertise in public finance, economic development, and creating
Development Agreem_ents that will have the desired economic and community outcomes. He
indicated that if the C.ity Council knows what it wants, it can very skillfully contracl for ce1tain
projects. A retainer agreement may also be a viable option because the contractor is only consulted
when their expertise is required. He also remarked that finding an Assistant City Manager with
all the necessary qualifications would be hitting the jackpot, and the pool of public employees with
that expyrtise is very small. He prefers to contract over hiring because it can be difficult to help
an employee exit when they are.no longer needed, and in his experience, their duties tend to expand
in multiple directions.

 Council Member Hyland's hesitation with contracting was based on past experience with things
 like fonn-based code, wbich stalled, and the General Plan update, which was an "Anytown, USA"
 plan that did nol address .Cottonwood Heights' needs. She was also very disappointed with what
 the Town Center bond contractor d elivered. lf someone is brought in internally, they will know
 about the City and be able to truly guide the Cow1cil.

 Mayor Bennion stated that Cottonwood Heights has sometimes been taken advantage of. A benefit
 of bringing someone on staff was that they would know the City and could be trusted to truly work
 for its benefit.

 Council Member Bi1Tetl stated that City leadership has had good ideas over the years, but they
 were now in need of municipal financial wisdom to be able to make things happen sh01t-te1111 and
 project out for the long-tenn. With transportation, for example, it makes sense to engage a

 Cottonwood Heigh ts City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ __    _ _      _

                                                         5
contractor who has local experience who can work in an ongoing fashion with our Public Works
department. However, the entire City is different. If the Assistant City Manager had demonstrated
experience in redevelopment and municipal finance, she would be in favor of pursuing that option.

Council Member Hyland asked Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, to
speak to the item. She had heard that Cottonwood Heights is a difficult city to work with, likely
because its ordinances were in need of updating. As Mr. Spung told her, it is like driving a 60-
year-old car that you cannot get parts for anymore.

Mr. Spung stated that his primary focus is on updating City Code and streamlining processes to
make more efficient use of Staff time. However, pending projects and initiatives need attention,
and it is difficult to do both. The City's best economic development tool is its Zoning and Land
Development Code because that is the mechanism to get where t11ey want it to be, and updating it
is a priority. They also need someone to help capture the City's vision of the future and execute
the portions that are not zoning-related, like se,eking grants, building relationships with business,
etc. Someone who could navigate that arena would be very helpful, but he did not know how
helpful they would be until the ordinances are put in order. It is a two-part process. The City
Council also needed to consider how aggressive it wants to be with economic development. Sandy,
for example, has four full-time econ91!1ic development employees, but Cottonwood Heights had
no other staff members dedicated to economic development. He believes the City would see a
return on its investment in an Assistant City Manager, and the Council should consider the costs
ofnot hiring one.

Mayor Bennion agreed with Mr. Spung. The opportunity was in the present, before the Olympics.
The Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") was moving forward with the intem1odal hub
in the Gravel Pit. They had engaged an architect and hoped for it to be functional by 2028.
However, the owners of the Gravel Pit were not on that tract, and they also owned the Old Mill.
The Conditional Use Pennit process to demolish that structure was taking up Staff time. She
believed it was an urgent matter. Tl1e City needed to hire an Assistant City Manager quickly so
they coul.9 take on some of that work and free up Planning Department time to update City Code.

Council Member Newell stated that it is a two-tier effort. An employee will have a learning curve,
and a contractor could be working on the projects while the City Council makes the fiscal
determination on whether a full-time position is justified. He agreed that the City needs someone
with expertise in economic development, but he was not certain that it was the right time to hire
someone, especially when it would be difficult to find the tight candidate. They also could not be
ce1tain that the candidate would have the same level of devotion to Cottonwood Heights. He was
in favor of us ing a contractor while the intemal policies and processes are streamlined.

Mr. Spung presented a proposal his previous consulting company had given to Midvale in 201 8,
whkh was approximately $225,000 to fully update their code within two years. He has the
experience and was in the process of updating Cottonwood Heights' Code. After that task is
completed, Staff time will be available to focus on proactive planning effmts. The General Plan
lists goals, objectives, and tasks that the City wants to achieve, but it cannot do everything with
the existing number of employees. The City Council needed to consider its prio1ities and how
long it wants tasks to take. Whether they decided on a contractor or Assistant City Manager, that

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                        6
person could pursue grants and other opportunities to help the City. A lot of money is available,
but no one on staff had the time or capacity to apply for or administer grants. Council Member
Newell expressed concern about that person rnnning into issues with existing Code.

Council Member Hyland stated that the consultant she spoke with also mentioned that Cottonwood
Heights does not have a marketing and branding plan. She asked Mr. Spung if he would prefer to
contract to update City Code or for economic development. Mr. Spung clatified that it should be
economic development, as code is his area of expertise and he caimot do both. lt would also be
harder for a consultant to familiatize themselves with code and less expensive for Staff to complete
the ordinance updates. He estimated the cost for a consultant to update City Code at $400,000 to
$500,000. Mayor Bennion remarked that this was an example of how valuable Staff is and why
the City needs to invest in retaining them. Toquervill~ Vernal, Midvale, Holladay, and Draper
have Assistant City Managers, and hiring one would allow Mr. Spung to focus on Code updates
while tbe Assistant City Manager focuses on the Old Mill ai1d other economic development
opportunities.

Council Member Birrell stated that they would need to find someone with demonstrated experience
managing Community Development and Renewal Agencies ("CORA") and Community
Redevelopment Agencies ("CRA"). She agreed with Council Member Newell that most incoming
department heads have a learning curve because they are unfamiliar with Cottonwood Heights, but
asked if he would be in favor of the position if the candidate had experience in finance,
redevelopment, and securing grants. Council Member Newell stated that he was open to
considering anything, but he does not want to place a burden on current Staff or the new employee.

Council Member H yland stated that although she requested the Agenda item, she was tom on the
decision. Her recommendation was to compile a list of desirable qualifications and post the job.
1f no suitable candidates -apply, they can reconsider a contractor. The proposed structure was for
the Assistant City Manager to take responsibility for Finance and Planning, and Mr. Gerber would
focus on everything else. The goal was not just lo add an expense but to add value. Visit Salt
Lake clearly indicated that the City is missing a value proposition because 14% of visitors are
going to the canyons, but only 5% of them are spending money in Cottonwood Heights.

 Ms. Higgins pointed out that the City Council could move forward with both options: A job
 description could be created, and the position opened, and they could also put out a Request for
 Qualifications (''RFQ"). The Council could then make a decision bnsed on submittals. Council
 Member Holton was in favor of this option.

 Mr. J urges noted that if the funding for the position was dependent on the tax increase, no one
 could be hired until after the Truth in Taxation hearing in August. ln response to a question raised
 by Council Member Holton, he con finned that hiring could take place prior to August if the funds
 were properly allocnted. The tax increase must be justified, and either the new position or other
 expenses could be used to do so.

 Mayor Bennion asked if the City Council would like Ms. Higgins to proceed with both options.
 Council Member Hyland stated that she would like to first review the list of qualifications. Council
 Member Birrell remarked that each Council Member should submit a list of their ideal Assistant

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        7
City Manager or contractor's skills. Ms. Higgins stated that the information would help her draft
the RFQ and job description.

Ms. Higgins asked if the City Council was committed to funding either the position or a contractor.
Mayor Bennion stated that she was committed to doing so because the City was missing
opportunities for grants and economic development that need to begin immediately to ensure that
Cottonwood Heights is ready for the Olympics. Council Member Holton asked if the dollar
amount would be the same for either option. Ms. Higgins stated that an Assistant City Manager
would be the equivalent of a department head. Including benefits, the annual cost would be
approximately $250,000 to $260,000. Council Member Hyland stated that contractors are
typically more expensive as they have to cover their own costs. She was in favor of moving
forward, as the City was behind and the Olympics were only eight years away. Council Member
Birrell agreed that the City ca1mot afford to wait. Change is imminent, and not getting ahead of
the curve could cost the City many millions of dollars. She saw it as an investment, not an expense.

Ms. Higgins asked if the Council's direction-was to build the position into the tax increase. In
response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber clarified that funds could
be allocated to fill the position sooner, but the City Council needed to detennine whether they were
committing to the expense for the ~ext fiscal year so it could be built into the Tentative Budget.
Council Member Birrell stated that she did not want the budget to increase, so reductions would
be necessary elsewhere. Council Member Newell stated that he did not know if a reduction was
necessary, but the offsetting revenue needed to be built in. In response to his question, Mr. Gerber
repo1ted that nothing had been built in. Savings from the cu1Tent fiscal year could be utilized, but
that would counteract some of the cuts that had been made. Council Member Newell stated that
the expertise was ne<:!ded regardless. Mayor Bennion, Council Member Hyland, and Council
Member Binell agreed.

         4.2     Utah Renewable Communities Update -Plmmer lll, Sheldon Howa.

Planner Ill, Sheldon How11, provided an update on the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC")
Community Clean Energy Program. The Utah Public Service Commission ("PSC") issued an
order approving the program on March 4, 2026. The order addressed key details such as the initial
program rate and customer opt-out details, with more complex issues to be addressed in a follow-
up rnling. This allowed the URC program to move forward and started the 90-day clock for
communities to consider adopting the ordinance. The deadline to do so was June 2, 2026. During
that time, the URC board was collaborating with other paities to propose solutions to the remaining
issues. They were also in negotiations with four renewal energy contractors.

 Council Member Bin-ell stated that her understanding was that the URC had committed to no rate
 increases so depending on the number of participants, they may need to drop a project. But, they
 currently have four projects so drop from four to three. Mr. Howa confirmed that the PSC had
 detennined a flat rate for residential participmlts. It is possible that the rate could increase
 depending on the chosen resources. The ruling indicates that the $4 program fee will cover
 administration costs and develop reserves to mitigate project startup costs, and they anticipate that
 rates will actually decrease over time. Council Member Hyland stated that the fee is subject to
 ammal review and can increase. Cottonwood Heights would have a vote, but there are seven

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting M inutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                         8
member communities that can vote to raise rates. Mr. Howa clarified that only the PSC has the
authority to raise the rate, but the URC can request that they do so. Council Member Hyland stated
that she believes it is disingenuous to say that costs will not increase even if that was the URC's
intention.

Council Member Birrell stated that the economic trend is toward renewable energy and asked why
Council Member Hyland believes that the costs will increase. Council Member Hyland was
concerned about her tax dollars subsidizing methane-producing nah1ral gas and carbon-producing
coal, and the cun-ent trend was toward solar because it is so low-cost. Council Member Hyland
stated that it is about supply and demand, but her primary concern was governance and guardrails.
She had read the PSC docket and listened to their meetings, and the State requires that the costs
and benefits cannot be outside of the participating customers. Her issue was that nobody knew
how the costs and benefits would be valued, and it is reac;onable to consider what could go wrong.
In response to a conm1ent made by Council Member Birrell, Mayor Bennion remarked that many
data centers are required to bring their own energy online and do not burden the elect1ic grid. She
then directed the discussion back to Mr. Howa·.

Mr. Howa reported that the PSC ruling established a flat rate of $4 per month for residential
customers, which includes a $3.88 program participation fee and $0.12 surcharge for the low-
income program. The monthly fee is waived for qualifying low-income residential customers. All
RMP ("RMP") customers would be eligible to pmticipate ex.cept those on the Schedule 135 net
metering program.

Council Member Holton asked if the URC Board had considered a usage-based fee. Mr. Howa
reported that to RMP initially requested vmiable program rates, but the URC detennined that a
flat, predictable rate would attract more residential participants. Higher users will still pay a higher
elecllic bill. The rate for business users will be based on usage.

Mr. Ho_wa reported that the low-income program is available to RMP customers with a household
income at or below 150% of the federal power level. Eligible customers can apply for the Home
Energy Assistance Target Program or RMP Home Elecuic Lifeline Program. Once approved,
there is no charge to participate in or tenninate the program.

 Non-residential customers will pay a volumetiic rate of $0.00609 per kilowatt hour ("kWh")plus
 the $0.12 monthly slow-income program surcharge. For example, the fee for a medium-sized
 office building that uses approximately 7,000 kWh would be approximately $42, or a 5% increase.
 The fee will vary depending 011 the specific utility rate. Council Member Hyland indicated that
 she spoke with Dan Dugan, who indicated that 20% of residents were projected to opt out of the
 program, but almost all commercial customers were expected to opt out due to the cost.

 r,..,1r. Howa reported that the PSC did not anticipate any fee increases due to the program structme
 and initial reserve funding, but that was not guaranteed. Council Member Hyland asked what
 participants would be paying for, if they would only pay for the renewable energy they use or all
 energy consumed by the participating communities. If the goal was to offset pmticipants'
 consumption, a smaller number of participants may pay for energy consumed by the entire
 conununity. If all commercial customers were projected to opt out, residents would pay to offset

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        9
the cost of a downtown entertairnnent district, for example. She asked about the specific statute
language. Mr. Howa stated that to his understanding, participants would only offset the cost of
the energy they used. lt is calculated based on participants' projected energy consumption, not the
community's consumption. Council Member Hyland stated that it was an important distinction
because it would not be fair for residents to pay for other users' consumption.

Council Member Bin-ell stated that she had heard from constituents that they want the choice. If
a resident does not want to support cleaner air, they have that choice. Residents can opt out for
free in the first six months or for $30 anytime. The State had not previously advanced renewables
in such a significant way, and she believed it was a pivotal decision.

Council Member Hyland reiterated the importance of governance and guardrails. Utah Code 54-
l 7-908(3)(b) specifies that the clean energy resources can be approved if it does not result in the
shifting ofcosts or benefits to otlier customers of the qualified utility. Mayor Be1mion stated that
the PSC approved the URC because the costs and benefits remain within the program. Council
Member Hyland pointed out that the docket indicates the URC had not come to an agreement on
how to calculate that. Mr. Howa reported that they were working to detennine the evaluation of
clean energy resources across the grid.                                       •

Council Member Bi1Tell stated that protecting residents' health was worth the nominal fee of $4
per month. Most government programs are not perfect, and many are inefficient. She asked the
Council to consider the opportunity to take this step toward cleaner energy.

Council Member Holton stated that after six months, the URC should have a clear understanding
of program participants and costs. He asked ifthe costs would then be socialized across those who
remain in the program. ·Mr. Howa stated that that was his understanding. The costs would then
be reevaluated yearly. A renewable energy source had not yet been selected so it was hard to
detennine specifics, but the PSC detennined that the costs should not roll over to nonparticipants.

Mr. Howa reviewed the anticipated timeline. If the City Council adopts the program, RMP will
then begin the five-month process of updating its billing system and preparing documentation to
send to program participants. Residents will receive a paper notice with opt-out instructions in
November. Per the PSC, two notices must be sent separately from utility bills. The second notice
will either be paper or paperless, depending on the resident's billing option. The commencement
petiod begins on January I, 2027, and the $4 fee will appear on participants' January electric bills.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Howa repo1ted that, to his
understanding, only two notices would be sent. ln response to a follow-up question from Council
Member Holton, he reported that new homeowners will also receive two notices and have a six-
month free opt-out period. Paiticipants who opt out after six months are subject to the $30
tennination fee. The fee for commercial customers is based on their aetual fee. Commercial
customers that consume over one megawatt of energy will receive a site visit from RMP . The City
is responsible for expenses related to the two initial notices.

Mr. Howa reviewed the ordinance details as follows:


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
  •  Per the Community Clean Energy Act, all cities are required to adopt the ordinance in order
     to remain in the URC program.
  • Once the ordinance is adopted, all resident RMP customers will be automatically emailed
     in the program with a six-month opt-out period.
  • All residents except those on Schedule 135 are eligible.
  • Program implementation begins the day that RMP sends the first notices. Two notices
     must be provided to each customer separately from the monthly bill.
  • Customers are automatically enrolled and can opt out anytime by providing notice to RMP.
  • Circumstances under which a customer does not pay a termination fee for opting out
     include:
          o During the six-month cancellation period,
          o If undergoing bankruptcy proceedings,
          o If enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance.
  • Clean energy resources can be acquired by RMP for the program.
  • The PSC detennines the program rate ~d can approve rate adjustments.
  • RMP is responsible for billing customers and notifying them of rate changes.
  • Communities that adopt the program are responsible for:
  • Entering into a utility agreement. (Completed)
   • Reimbursing RMP for the cost of providing t\,io notices to all customers. (Estimated at
      $ 18,761.11)
   • Contributing funds to pay for third-party consultants used by the Office of Conswner
      Services and Division of Public Utilities to evaluate the program. (Completed when the
      governance agreement was signed.)
   • No other costs associated with the program, includ1ng termination fees not paid by a
      customer within City boundaries.

If adopted, the URC would provide a new opportunity for all eligible homes and businesses within
the cormmmity to choose clean energy tlu·ough their RMP bill. lf the ordinance was not adopted,
Cotto11wood Heights would be removed from the URC and no longer participate in the Co1mnunity
Clean Energy Program. l11e decision was currently nonreversible.

Couneil Member Newell stated that if residents could opt in, he would be 100% behind the
program. Council Member Hyland agreed. In response to a question raised by Council Member
Birrell, Council Member Hyland confirmed that it was an opt-out program when Cottonwood
Heights 01iginally adopted it in 20 19. Council Member BitTell urged her Council colleagues to
consider that fact. Fonner Mayor Weichers chose not to attend URC board meetings, but the City
had been a member of the program since its initial $20,000 investment in 2018. The community
is invested in the URC, and it aligns with the City's adopted Sustainability Plan. In her opinion,
their choice was to either abandon the URC or stay the course and allow residents to choose.

Council Member Newell would be in favor of remaining in the URC if residents were allowed to
opt in, but he was not in favor of making a blanket decision for residents. Many citizens do not
look at their bills closely and will not know that they have been opted into the program, and he
believes it is a h·ap. He would rather provide them with a true choice. He cares about ecology and


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      11
air quality, but he does not want to support a system that tells residents they are in the program
until they decide otherwise.

Council Member Hyland stated that she had been characterized as being against renewables and
the UR.C program, but she was simply undecided. The costs and benefits need to apply only to
customers who choose to stay in the program so participants do not pay for commercial
consumption. She was also concerned about establishing the precedent that a government entity
can vote to subsc1ibe its residents to a product or service from a publicly traded, for-profit
company. The program is well-intended and could be beneficial if it were opt in, but she agreed
with Council Member Newell that it would take advantage of human frailty. Participation rates in
opt-out programs are much higher by omission, and she was concerned that it would take
advantage of those who do not notice the fee, understand how to opt out, or realize the
consequences ofnot opting out during the initial cancellation period. She was undecided, but that
 fact did not sit well with her. Some of the program's biggest supporters had told her that if they
could do it over, they would make it opt in.

Council Member Holton stated that a sticking point for him was that they would be taking money
from residents and giving it to a publicly traded company to build green energy generation that
will go on the grid elsewhere. His preference was to generate the energy in the community to
directly serve Cottonwood Heights residents. Mr. Howa stated that there is not a suitable location
for a solar fann in the City or Salt Lake County, and the source will be pushed out to the southern
Utah, Idaho, or Wyoming. They were considering the regional impact, not the impact to a specific
city, and the program will provide a strnctured pathway to create renewable, clean energy.

Mayor Bennion stated that the URC had studied 14 projects, and three of the four that were chosen
are within Utah. The grid is interconnected, and it is important to add clean energy. She believes
that remaining in the program would respect both the previous City Council that brought
Cottonwood Heights into the program and residents by allowing them a choice. If the Council
made the choice to vote no, they would take that choice away from residents. She asked the City
Council if they saw a connection between Mr. Lybbert's presentation on Visit Salt Lake and the
importance of experiences, the previous winter, and what the area was offering visitors if they did
not support clean energy.

Council Member Hyland stated that she believes that they do supp01t clean energy. Steve Handy,
who was one of the original sponsors of the bill that created the program, wrote an op-ed in The
Desert News which indicated approximately 94% of new electricity-generating capacity added in
Utah has been solar. That is not due to a government mandate but because the market is speaking
and solar is competitive.

 Mayor Bennion clarified that her research indicated that the clean energy that had been added was
 through small Blue Sky program projects and Salt Lake City-specific projects, none of which
 contributed to the grid. She understands the history of the bill and changes that were made due to
 state politics. Rocky Mountain Power has no plans to add renewable energy to the grid. There is
 a clear and direct connection between legislative choices and the enviromnent, and that is why so
 many residents had asked for the ability to have the choice. Council Member Hyland stated that


 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       12
it is a very complex issue, and governance and guardrails matter. The cost is coming down, but
who pays for it is an important consideration.

Mayor Bennion reported that she hoped to have a vote on the item on May 19. That would provide
ample time for the Council to speak with residents. Mr. Howa added that the May newsletter will
include an aiticle about the URC program.

        4.3     Butler Hills Crnsswalk Discussion - Public Works Director, Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp repo1ted that the B1ighton High School Community Council had requested changes to
the Butler Hills crosswalk, as well as a dedicated right-hand tum lane into the school. He displayed
aerial photographs of the school at various phases ofconstruction and provided a timeline of events
related to the crosswalk. DUJing constrnction, Canyons~School Dishict requested that the original
crosswalk be moved to provide direct access to the school, which was completed in 2021. In 2023,
new crosswalks were constrncted based on the planned school landing pad. The crosswalks allow
students to cross one lane at a time, provide a s_afe landing in the middle, and have a clear line of
sight to oncoming traffic. they also provide visibility to cars in all lanes of traffic at the roundabout.

A March 2026 photograph of the Butler Hills crosswalk was displayed. Mr. Shipp reported that it
was installed with Rapid Reflective Flashing Beacons ("RRFB") to alert drivers that students
would be crossing the street. New overhead streetlights were also installed on both sides. lf the
City moves forward with the Bengal Boulevard project, the crosswalk will be modified to function
like the one at the roundabout with two crossings and landing area in between.

T\1.r. Shipp identified areas along Bengal Boulevard where the requested 1ight-tum lane could be
located. The firsl option would only access a small side parking lot at the school, and the City
would need to purchase right-of-way from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The
second option would access the bus lane. It would also require property acquisition, as well as
modifications to traffic flow in that parking lot. TI1e third option would require a bypass lane for
the row.1.oabout and additional property acquisition. Mr. Shipp stated that he did not understand
the request. Staff review- determined that traffic does flow tlu·ough the area, and it is only
congested between approximately 2:30 p.m. and 2:39 p.m. To his knowledge there had only been
one rear-end collision at the location, and he saw no benefit in adding a dedicated right-tum lane.

Council Member Hyland provide background on the request. The Brighton High School
Community Council approached her after a gentleman was killed in a crosswalk as they were
concerned about their children's safety. They fast requested a crossing guard at the Butler Hills
crosswalk but were told by Canyons School District that they do not have crossing guards at high
schools. Their second request was to time the crosswalk because drivers seem to get frustrated at
how often they have to stop for the flashing beacon. A timed crossing may allow for better traffic
movement and visibility. The request for a dedicated right tum lane was to reduce driver
impatience, especially in the morning. She agreed that the tum lane was not feasible but asked
about the possibility of crosswalk improvements.

Mr. Shipp stated that the Bengal Boulevard/Highland Drive intersection project would co1Tect the
issue, and both county and federal funds were available for that project. The crossing would be

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
nan-ower, provide a safe island in the middle, and have upgraded, timed RRFBs. He was
researching other improvements, but those would increase costs, and he had not received approval
to move forward. He will research whether the two crosswalk buttons can be upgraded separately.
Council Member Hyland remarked that it was helpful to know how the crosswalk would be
impacted by that project. It would also likely be addressed by the Comprehensive Safety Action
Plan.

Council Member Newell expressed concem about children attempting to cross the street as soon
as they push the button regardless of whether the lights begin to flash at that time. ln response to
a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that improvements to the
westbound onramp to Interstate 215 initially included standard flashing yellow lights with a
"Walk/Don't Walk" sign. A young man hit the button, then assumed that he could walk because
the lights were flashing and the sign said "Walk". Diivers are supposed to stop as soon as a
pedestrian enters the sidewalk. However, the young man was strnck. They try to mitigate that
issue as much as possible with young people be~ause, to Council Member Newell's point, they arc
less likely to check before entering the crosswalk. That crosswalk was changed to a Higb-lntensity
Activated CrossWalk ("HAWK") signal, which changes the light from yellow to red to signal
drivers to stop.

Mr. Shipp remarked that RR.FBs can cause driver frustration because students will hit the button
in succession, causing the lights to flash for as long as two minutes. A timer would limit how
often the lights will cycle.

Council Member Hy}and stated that the B1ighto11 High School Conununity Cow1cil sent an letter
requesting that the issue be addressed in a Council meeting, and she appreciated the opportunity
to discuss it. She and Mr, Shipp would schedule a meeting with them to discuss the matter further.
Mayor Bennion reported that she had been meeting with Mr. Shipp and the Public Works
Depruiment when she had questions, and they had really helped her understand issues. She
encouraged the Council to do so as well.

Council Member BiITell remarked on an opinion piece in The Salt Lake Tribune entitled "When
Lawmakers Weaken Consequences in School Zones, They Weaken the Dete1Tent that Keeps
Drivers Vigilant". They Council needed to be careful that motoiists' convenience did not take
priority over the safety of all road users.

        4.4     FlasbVote - Next Survev Discussion - City Mallager, .Tared Gerber.

Mr. Gerber stated that FlashVote had asked about the next survey topic. The tlu-ee remaining
topics from the original list were the General Plan, sho1t-te1m rentals, and intersection safety. He
asked for the City Council's input on which topic should be covered next. Council Member Holton
remarked that Council Member Hyland recommended FlashVote to the Cily, and a primary reason
for doing so was lo survey residents about short-term rentals.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City was almost ready to implement Granicus, so she
would like the Council to consider short-tenn rentals as the next survey topic. FlashVote provided


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                      14
a survey from another city that had a definition of short-term rentals followed by four questions
and a comments section . The questions were as follows:

        1.      Do you know or suspect that there are one or more short-term ren tal properties in
                your neighborhood?
        2.      W11ich of the fo11owing have you personally experienced in your neighborhood, if
                any, from short-term rentals or othe1w ise?
                o       Loud noises
                o       Excessive cars
                o       Other nuisances
        3.      If the City were to regulate short-term rentals, which do you believe would be most
                appropriate? Respondents can then choose three items from a menu of options.
        4.      If the City were to establish additional standards for short-tenn rentals, which of
                the following types ofregulations would you support, if any? Choose all that apply.

The questions could be tailored to the City's !1eeds, but Council Member Hyland believed the
sample questions were a good start. Mayor Bennion agreed as the City is highly impacted by
sh01t-tenn rentals due to its proximity to the canyons. Council Member Hyland stated that there
may be a way to overlay a map with the first question to determine if residents are even aware of
nearby short-term rentals. Mayor Bennion remarked that from her experience, many residents are
aware of and frustrated by the lack of action on them, and she was excited that the City was talcing
action. Council Member Bil1'ell recommended framing the question to detennine if the respondent
perceives short-tenn rentals as a negative for the community. Mayor Bennion agreed that it is a
nuanced topic as some residents supplement their income by renting out a portion of their home.

Council Member Birrell thanked Council Member Hyland for the questions and her leadership in
regard to sh01t-term rentals and noted that the Council majority wanted to advance that topic. She
noted for the record that she had twice indicated that she believes it is urgent to survey residents
regarding ~he URC to detennine;: whether they want that choice. She was willing to table her
request for a survey on intersection safety to address that time-sensitive issue and receive
conunuuity feedback prior to the May 19 vote, and she believed that short- tenn rentals could also
be postponed.

Council Member Hyland stated that due to the complex.ity of the URC program, she believes it
would be difficult to adequately educate respondents about what it is and what they are doing.
Citizens who are interested in the program have reached out to the City Council. She agreed that
the Council needs feedback, but she believed that they were receiving it.

Mayor Bennion asked if a Flash Vote survey on URC would raise awareness of the program. In
response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Gerber reported that there were
currently over 600 residents in the pool. Council Member Holton stated that he was in favor of
the topic of short-tenn rentals. [t was noted that the City had paid for six surveys, and two had
been completed. Residents had also offered to pay for one additional survey.

Mayor Bermion asked if the Council would be willing to allow one survey to be used to increase
awareness and gather citizen feedback on the impmtant project or to allow residents to pay for that

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
survey. Council Member Hyland staled that the survey should not be politicized. She would
consider a fair survey that educates and asks for opinions, but the questions would need to be
reviewed by the Council. Council Member Holton stated that the newsletter article will reach
more than 600 people, which he believes is sufficient. Council Member Hyland stated that the
sun ey should be conducted after the a1ticle is published.
   1




Timing was discussed. Mayor Bennion stated that the Council could review the questions on
May 5 and the survey could go out immediately. In response to her question, Mr. Geber reported
that FlashVote usually responds with recommended questions within one week, but the URC is a
very specific topic that may take more time. It was decided that the Council would discuss
questions over email.

Council Member Holton asked how his Council colleagues would like to approach the FlashVote
sun eys. Because the Council would vote on the URC on May 19, he believed the survey may be
      1


an attempt to guide policy. He asked if a survey would be conducted for the property tax increase
to dete1mine which percentage residents would prefer, for example, and noted that all Council
Members had received multiple emails both for and against the URC prograin.

Council Member Newell expressed concern about perception and indicated that the verbiage
would be c1itical. He also did not want to lose momentum on short-tenn rentals. Mayor Bennion
asked if the Council believed short-tern1 rentals had the same ti.me urgency. Council Member
Hyland stated that because they were planning to begin implementation in the summer, the survey
should be conducted soon.

In response to a question, Mr. Geber reported that surveys are open for two to three days. Council
Member Hyland noted that respondents who were sent a link to a survey have potential bias, and
those results can be filtered out. She wanted to ensure that both data sets are reviewed. Council
Member Bi1Tell stated that a number of people had told her that they signed up but did not receive
a survey.

Mayor Bennion indicated that the City Council would work on questions via email, and a survey
would not be conducted unless the Council agreed on the verbiage.

5.0       REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMLNG EVENTS.

          5.1     Sapling Sale -Saturday, April 25, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. in the Parking
                  Lot at City Hall.
          5.2     Family Support Center Pinwheels for Prevention Plantings - Saturday, April
                  25 at 9:00 a.m. with a Program at 10:30 a.m. at Citv Hall.
          5.3     Neighborhood Budget Meeting - Thursday, April 30 at 6:30 p.m. in the
                  Community Room at City Hall.
          5.4     Creek Road Crosswalk Study Open House - Wednesday, May 6 at Oakdale
                  Elementary Sci.tool from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
          5.5     Public Works Open House for Residents- Wednesday, Mav 20 from 5:00 p.m.
                  to 7:00 p.m. at the Public Works Building.


 Coltonwood /-/eights City Council Mee ting Minutes for April 21, 2026    Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      '   16
       5.6      Shred Event - Mondav, June I, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza
                (open to CWH residents onlv, 2-boxes per vehicle limit).
       5.7      CHaRM Hard-to-Reevcle Event - Saturday. June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to
                12:00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza.
       5.8      Butlerville Davs -Julv 16, 2026. to Julv 18. 2026.
       5.9      Block Party/Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside
                Plaza.

Mr. Spung reported that the Sapling Sale would begin at 9:00 a.m. on April 25, not I 0:00 a.m. as
previously indicated. Approximately 50 trees had already been sold. The CHaRM event had been
moved to 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on June 6.

6.0    POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION. PURCHASE OR
       LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CI1ARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
       COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL.
       OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
       UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session and
open a Closed Meeting for the purpose of discussing real property; the character and professional
competence or physical or mental health of an individual; or any other pennitted purposes. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The City Council was in closed session from 6:29 PM to 6:46 PM.

The following were present:

Mayor Gay Lyllll Be1rnion, Council Member Ellen Birrell, Council Member Matt Holton (via
Zoom), Council Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell; City Manager, Jared
Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Community
and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Wendy Fisher, Utah Open Lands




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      17
MINUTES OF THE COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDA \', APRIL 21, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ClTY COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UT AH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Ellen Bin-ell, Council
                           Member Matt Holton (via Zoom), Council Member Suzanne Hyland,
                           Council Member Shawn Newell

Staff Present:              City Manager, Jared Gerber (via Zoom); City Attorney, Shane Topham;
                            Finance Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo;
                            Administrative Services Directoi·, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder,
                            Tiffany Janzen; Community and Economic Development Director, Jim
                            Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City
                            Engineer, Matt Shipp

1.         WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.      PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE-

Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.      CJTY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        3.1      Committee Reports bv Council Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton reported that as the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
("WFWRD") continues to work on ways to keep costs down while retaining a high level of service,
they are also expanding their services. Beginning May l , 2026, residents can hire WFWRD to
pick up va1ious item at an additional charge. The base pickup fee is $20. If they pick up a mattress,
there is an additional $20 charge. Freon-containing appliances are an additional $25 each, and
other appliances like washing machines are $ 10. Tires are $5 to $6 each. If residents forget to put
their bin out and request an additional pickup, there will be a $25 missed pickup fee. The WFRD
will also hold a retreat on Monday, April 28 to discuss longstanding policies, and he encouraged
residents to contact him with any input.

           3.2    Committee Reports bv Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

 Council Member Hyland reported that she is the Council Liaison to the Emergency Management
 Committee. People think of emergency preparedness in regard lo events like large earthquakes,
 but it is also important to prepare for things like flooding and less common events like
 electromagnetic pulses. She believes the City is unprepared to reach residents in the event of an
 emergency. Anthropic developed a model that identified security vulnerabilities in almost every
 major system, and The Wal/ Street Journal had recommended that everyone update all of their

 Cottonwood /-/eights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026       Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                         18
devices. People should also be aware of any device that is connected to the internet but no longer
supported with security updates, like an old Ring camera or Windows IO device. Those security
vulnerabilities could cause your data to be wiped out. if they are not addressed by large companies,
people may not know what is in their bank account, for example. She hoped that citizens
understand why more money is required to address those issues.

During the January inauguration ceremony, she mentioned that everyone needs to have more grace
for one another and themselves. In 1998, the internet upended how people work. In 20 IO, smart
phones did it again. In 2023, AI again upended the way we work. It is difficult for h umans to
integrate so many major changes in such a short period oftime. In that 25 years, there was also a
fmancial crisis and pandemic. It is no wonder that people are experiencing angst. She asked that
everyone remember how difficult it has been to be human over the past few years and work to
engage in civil, thoughtful, respectful dialogue and have grace for one another.

        3.3     Committee Reports by Council Member ShllWll Newen.

Council Member Newell reported that he serves on the Health in the Heights Committee, which
was currently promoting the Utah Department of Natural Resources' Adventure Pass for young
people in the community. TI1e program includes ajoumal where students can log their experiences
in nature. Health in the Heights was also working to evaluate health impacts on young people, and
he was excited to share that rep01i soon.

He serves on the Canyons School District Education Foundation Board, which recently held a gala
where they awarded seven $2,500 scholarships to high school students. Each student submitted
an essay on why they deserved a scholarship and had demonstrated scholastic prowess. He
volunteers with the Unified Sports Program, which allows special education students to participate
in different types of sporiing events. It provides au opportunity for the children to feel included in
their schools and participate in sports they may otherwise not have had an opportunity to
experience. Their upcoming Fun Run will include many local special education students.

 Council Member Newell reinforced Council Member Hy1and's statement: It is a great time think
 about our humanity. Everyone has the opportunity to understand that we live in a shared village,
 and it is important to act accordingly moving forward. There are great things happening in the
 City, but it talces everyone to make the village thrive.

         3.4     Committee Reports bv Council Member Ellen Birrell.

 Council Member Biffell stated that youth development and sustainability are her top priorities.
 Winter temperatures were 7.7 degrees higher than average, and she is very concerned about the
 future. She had been working on the Utah Renewable Communities ("URC") program, which the
 City entered into in 2019. Cottonwood Heights has a board seat, and in their monthly meetings
 URC has worked on scalable ways to help Utah advance renewables on the grid. She urged all
 citizens to learn more about the program. She has a1so been researching how the City can advance
 in a financially and environmentally sustainable way.



 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       19
Ivory Homes was still in possession of Summer Hills Park, formerly Doverhill Park, located
northeast of Bengal Boulevard and 3500 East, but it would be handed over to the City soon.

She congratulated Youth City Council Mayor, Mary Ann Jensen, who was the ru1mer up for the
Utah Regional Sterling Scholar program.

Cottonwood Heights resident Helen McCarty would be at the April 25 Sapling Sale to provide
infonnation on xeriscaping and native plants. A child abuse prevention awareness event would be
held the same day. Anyone wishing to volunteer to put pinwheels out should be at City Hall at
9:00 a.m.

        3.5     Committee Reports bv Mayor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion provided an update on the Cottonwood Heights Interfaith Coalition, which had its
first meeting on Aptil 16. Rachel Keeney and Sue Protis will lead the Coalition. Their next
meeting will be on Thursday, May 21 at 12:00-p.m. at the Whitmore Library.

As Cottonwood Heights is The City Between the Canyons and impacted by resort traffic, she set
up a meeting with the Utah Departm_e1!t of Transpo1tation ("UDOT") in March to discuss the new
rough shoulder on the west side of Wasatch Boulevard. It needs to be smoother for bicycle safety,
have proper signage, and hopefully have a police officer assigned to direct ski traffic to the right
on heavy snow days so local traffic can flow in the :main southbound lane. Council Member Bin-ell
and representatives of the Cottonwood Heights Police Department were also in attendance.

She serves on the Central Wasatch Conunission ("CWC"), which organized a stakeholder meeting
to discuss the ski ptimity bus lane. The program works for Sandy and could work for Cottonwood
Heights, especially given the new shoulder on Wasatch Boulevard. CWC offers up to $30,000 for
police overtime to cities involved in the program. She is chair of the CWC Transportation
Committee and will be following up on that opportunity.

She also serves on the Salt Lake County Solid Waste Board. New legislation passed in 2025
requires that all dump loads be covered so trash does not blow out, but there have been issues with
compliance. She will be coordinating with other mayors to educate residents on the requirement.

She serves on the Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Board, where she learned that 80% of City calls
to UFA are medical. Station 11 o·on Fort Union Boulevard is the busiest station, especially during
ski season. UFA invested in 48 new cardiac monitors that are c01mected to hospitals for smoother
transfer of care. She toured their current training center, which is cobbled together from suq)lus
trailers. A real training center had been built into their upcoming budget, but no major fee
increases were planned due to a l 0% reduction in each of their departments. She joined their Fire
101 program in March and now has a better understanding of how they operate.

Cottonwood Heights is the only city in Salt Lake County that does not own its fire stations. Station
110 is not being properly maintained. It is not a City building, but the County does not want it and
is not perfonning maintenance. She is working for Cottonwood Heights to take ownership of the
station, and she hopes the County will contribute funds to begin the overdue maintenance work.

Cottonwood Heigh ls City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       20
4.     CITIZEN COM.lVIENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Ci tizen Comment period.

Karen Roylance stated that most people in the community initially did not know what the URC
was, and concerns were expressed about the opt-out program. More data was needed. She would
like infonnation on whether the program will be beneficial and how citizens' money will be used,
as well as tax, health, and air quality benefits. She does not drive to keep her emissions down on
bad air days, and she believes everyone does a good job of helping the community. She would
prefer that the program be opt in rather than making people who are not aware of it pay to opt out.

Cherie Sadowski spoke on behalf of the Brighton High School Community Council. She
appreciated the ongoing communication with the City, especially Council Member Hyland. The
roundabout had been working well, but they had ongoing issues with the other crosswalk.
Teachers have seen many near misses, and she has personally witnessed them as well. It was not
about traffic congestion but rather student safety when trying to cross the road. At times, traffic
backs up to Fort Union Boulevard and beyond. She believes the matter needs to be addressed
before a tragedy occurs as students ~d parents are very concerned about crosswalk safety.

Melinda Roseveer stated that she listened to the Work Session and wanted to clarify that the
crosswalk issue was not about the roundabout. Their speci fie concern was the crosswalk at Butler
Hills Drive. They would like to see a timer at that crosswalk. Many people had commented about
near misses, and she had personally almost struck a sludent when it was dark in the morning. There
are also issues with congestion. They were told that they could not have a crossing guard, so a
good compromise would be to install a timer at the crosswalk to allow students to gather and cross
safely in groups. They welcomed any additional meetings with Council Member Hyland and
Mr. Shipp.

Pat Passey stated that she is a parent who often drives her child to B1ighton High School. Traffic
backs up in both directions on Highland Dtive in the morning. During that 15- to 20-minute
window, many parents drop stuc_  l~nts off at the Butler Hills crosswalk. She believes that as many
as 200 students cross there every morning, and traffic cmmot get through. Installing a timer would
be an easy solution.

Shannon Haley urged the Council to vote "yes" on the URC program. She is not an overzealous
citizen with a pet issue, and the program did not emerge from one pa11y or one city. It was built
on years of bipattisan cooperation at the highest levels of state government. The Community
Renewable Energy Act passed with overwhelming Republican suppo11 in both chambers, and both
the Legislature and Governor Cox recently unanimously reaffmned that commitment. The Utah
Public Service Commission mled that, "The general consensus of all patties is that approval of
this program is in the public interest." Utah leadership had spoken clearly. The program is sound,
fiscally responsible, and benefits the community. She did not understand how the Council could
take the choice away from citizens. lf they voted ''no" they would take the decision away from all
Cottonwood Heights residents and forfeit the opporhmity for citizens to choose whether to


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026        Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      21
participate. She believes that citizens deserve that choice and a chance to be part of the program
that has earned the trust of Governor Cox, the Legislature, and state regulators.

Ken Garner has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights since 2008 and is a licensed professional
electrical engineer. He has never seen what the area is about to face. The Council's decision was
not about opting in or out. 1t was about over 25 years of the economy, health and welfare of
citizens and the local power grid. He believes the URC will eventually save money. Every year
of his career, the PSC forced the power company to hold down rate increases. There arc
guardrails. The new law does not allow renewable assets to be paid for by regular customers or
renewable customers to pay for the shutdown of coal plants. Coal plants will shut between 2035
and 2050 at a cost of $10 million to $20 million per plant, plus approximately $100 million to
clean up coal ash waste. Fuel, transpo1i, and labor costs are escalating. There is also more rate
volatility now that may cause a 70% increase over the next 10 years. He bdieves renewable rates
will also increase, but at a much lower rate of 20% to 30%. The Noith American Electric
Reliability Corporation ("NERC") is putting Utah in the high-1isk category begimling in 2028,
which means any asset loss like a power plant or major transmission line will cause rolling
blackouts. Every kilowatt that can be designed is needed because the power grid needs to double
in eigh t years and triple in 15 to 20. The giid needs to be made more resilient, and renewable
technology can accomplish that. It takes five years to build a gas plant, six to eight to build a coal
plant, and Operation Gigawatt would take 10 to 15 years. Solar can be online in one year and
storage in two.

 Dennis Magaro thanked Council Member Holton for the timely response to his question regarding
 natural gas trash trucks. He also called him out on a conflict of interest. Council Member Holton
 stated that he would never do that, but the voters would make that decision. He does not need
 recycling every week. Once or twice per month would be sufficient and would create a cost
 savings. He asked the Council to give residents the option to opt out of the URC program because
 the City needs to be a part of it.

  Allen Mark stated that if people listened to Council Member Hyland and Council Member
  Newell's closing statements, the community would be in a better state. The City made the decision
  to create an off-leash dog park at Ferguson Park, but it is on a na!1'ow strip of land next to a busy
  highway. It is not easy to get to and does not have room to throw a ball, but otherwise it is a perfect
  park. People allmv their dogs to go off leash at other parks, which creates its own set of issues.
  His dog had been attacked twice and his neighbor's dog was attacked once. There was a lack of
. enforcement even though signage indicates leash law are enforced. He was also concerned about
  traffic. He had not seen any changes to road safety or design since the November 2025 Fox 13
  story, and he hoped the new City leadership would move that forward. There are more and more
  reckless drivers. A traffic expe1i interviewed for the Fox 13 story stated that speedbumps cost
  approximately $5,000 each, which they indicated was "chump change" for a traffic department.
  He understands that the police cannot be everywhere, but there needs to be more enforcement or
  quality of life will decrease in Cottonwood Heights. Fewer people are walking due to safety
  concems, and it is time for enforcement and for people to do the right thing.

 Scott Bracken stated that in February 2005, he was tasked with looking into fonning a Youth City
 Council in Cottonwood Heights. Their first meeting was in March of that year, and he served as

 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                       22
Council liaison until January 2024. His wife had served as an advisor for over 20 years, and they
had continued to serve as advisors over the past two years. He was present to address comments
made in the last City Council Work Session. 2024 was only two years ago, not four, and that was
repeatedly misstated. He learned in his time on the Council that what is said becomes record, even
if it is not technically correct. He was certain that the Council was aware of that discrepancy but
the general public may not be.

During his service, the goal for the Youth City Council had always been to serve, learn, and
develop relationships. The service projects are a benefit to the City, and the education meetings
are focused on Cottonwood Heights government and City issues, not county, state, federal, or rural
issues. The Youth City Council was never a sponsor of activism, just service. There had been
students that disagreed with him over the years, but most those who felt that the Youth Council was
not meeting their needs simply stopped corning. He did not expect anyone to accuse him of
fighting with students, as from his perspective that was not the case. They always tried to be
inclusive with membership, and he believed they had been successful. The Youth City Council
had had superior, energetic students who excel in school and most aspects of their lives, as well as
average students who simply want to be involved. As long as they were willing to serve
and pa1ticipate, they were always welcome. At least one student became homeless during their
time on the Youth City Council and used the relationships there to feel a little more normal. Some
members went on to obtain graduate degrees at local and Ivy League schools. He is still Facebook
friends with some of those students and has seen how their lives progressed. Many Youth City
Council members had not considered any type of post-secondary education or training,
but pursued it after seeing the options presented by City employees and others. He believes that
the goals of the You~1 City Council charter are great, but there are always things that can be
improved. He had committed to work with Council Member Hyland, the cun-ent liaison, to address
that issue. He also suppo!!ed installation of a crosswalk timer at Brighton High School.

Aaro11 Hadfield stated that he teaches govemment at Brighton High School and is a memberofthe
Community Council. TI1e students who were present had just completed a simulation where they
created- a party platfonn, and their chosen candidate would be running against the candidate from
another class. He invited the City Council to attend their presidential election on May 6 at 6:30
p.m. in the Brighton High School auditorium. Regarding the Butler Hills Drive crosswalk, he had
personally almost hit students in the crosswalk, and he wanted to make sure that it is improved.
Mr. Shipp works very hard and does a great job, and he has taken the time to speak with the
Community Council many times over the years. Cottonwood Heights is a beautiful community
and a wonderful place to work. The Co1mnunity Council believes that a timer is a realistic solution
that will allow students to group together and cross in mass instead of ones and twos. The lights are
sometimes not enough. He thanked Council Member Hyland for btinging the matter before the
City Council.

Council Member Hyland asked for more infonnation about the mock presidential election.
Mr. Hadfield reported that it will be held on May 6 at 6:30 p.m. in the Brighton High School
auditorium. Anyone 18 years or older is invited to attend and cast a vote.

Council Member Newell congratulated the students in attendance for being present at the meeting
and for learning about the processes that take place in an election. Communities are constantly

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      23
looking for young people to step into roles like those of the City Council and represent their
community.

Mr. Hadfield yielded his remaining time to Ms. Rasmussen.

Bayer Rasmussen stated that she is a student at Brighton High School. She was present to obtain
credit for her American Problems class and to speak about the Butler Hills Drive crosswalk. She
uses the crosswalk, and as a member of track and cross-country team she frequently runs in the
area. She supported the initiative to install a timer. High school students sometimes have a lack
of care for drivers, and high school drivers also have angst and want to get home quickly A timer
would ease the flow of traffic and allow students to cross in groups.

Rochelle Kaplan stated that she and her husband love being residents of Cottonwood Heights. She
was pleased to see the Brighton High School sl:l.1dents and Mr. Hadfield in attendance. She used
to volunteer with the League of Women Voters to do voter registration and pre-registration
there. She was present to speak in support of Utah Renewable Communities. She loves the idea
of having more data available to residents aboti't how effective the program is, any problems they
have faced, and why it has proceeded so slowly. Utah has many wonderful renewable energy
sources including solar, wind, and g<!othennal, and fossil fuels are not the way to go for the future.
Countries like China are way ahead, and she would like to see the community and state at the
forefront and thinking about the future. She has respiratory issues and is very concerned about air
quality, and this program will help. She did not have a problem with the opt-out provision.
C01mnunity residents should have a say and can opt out if they choose to. She believes the City
should stay in the pro_wam.

Randy Long stated that he tried to go swimming at the recreation center the previous evening and
spent 30 minutes trying to find a parking space due to the game. He believes there should be a
limit on the number of spectators that can attend because otherwise the parking lot needs to be
bigger. A lot of people park there for the Thanksgiving SK and Butlerville Days, but others are
not likely-Jo park there at the same ti!11e as those events.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment Period was closed.

5.       REPORTS

         5.1      Finance Quarterly Report - Finance Director, Scott J11rges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, presented the Finance Qua1terly Report.

Property taxes:

     •   Total year-to-date base revenue: $8.316 million of the $8.322 million budget.
            o The average annual increase is approximately $5 1,000.
            o Property tax growth has been very flat, with only an approximately 4.5% net
                increase since FY 2019.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      24
   •    General Obligation Bond property tax revenue: $1.422 million against the $ 1.315 million
        budget. The amount collected should theoretically equal bond payments, but it is based on
        a collection rate of 97% so the total will vary based on actual revenue. The amount also
        includes some motor vehicle fee in-lieu revenue.

Other year-to-date tax. revenues:

   •    Motor vehicle fee in-lieu revenue through April was $407,000, approximately $25,000
        behind FY2026 but ahead of the $325,000 budget.
   •    Sales taxes were booked tlu·ough January 2027, with a total of$5.504 million received year
        to date. That reflects an increase of $185,000 over the previous fiscal year to date.
   •    County option highway sales tax was $19,000 ~ead of FY 2025, with $491 ,000 received
        year to date.                                     -
   •    County local transit sales tax is new and not included in the cutTe11t budget. Approximately
        $248,000 has been received year to date, and the total projected FY 2026 revenue is
        $424,000. All revenue must be used for h·anspo1tation projects.
    •   Transient room tax was $100,000, approximately $10,000 behind FY 2025. Mr. Jurges
        believed this was due to the wanner winter affecting ski season.
    •   Municipal energy tax was$ l.630 million year to date, approximately $30,000 behind FY
        2025 due to the wann winter and a recent rate cut.
    o   Cable television franchise tax was at $126,000, approximately $9,000 behind FY 2025.
        This revenue is received quarterly and only two payments had been received year to date.
        The budget was being reduced for FY 2027 as cable television usage continues to decline.
    •   Class C Road revenues were $1.163 million year to date, approximately $92,000 ahead of
         FY 2025. Tfie revenue is volume based, so cun-ent high fuel taxes should not result in
        increased revenues.

In response to a qu~stion raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges reported that the
percen~iges listed at the top of each presentation slide reflected the percentage of the budget that
had been collected at this point in the year. Collections are not equal across revenue sources. For
example, 90% of property taxes are collected November through January, but most motor vehicle
fee in-lieu taxes are booked in at the sta1t of the fiscal year in July. Sales tax revenue is collected
two months in arrears and fluctuates, with higher collection during Cluishnas and the summer.

Mr. Jurges reported tirnt most revenue is booked in November, December, and January each year
as that is when property taxes are received. General Fund Revenues were at $ 19.711 million year
to date, $197,000 ahead of FY 2025. ln response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland,
Mr. Jurges clruified that items like licenses and fees were not included in the presentation. He
believes that item had been underbudgetcd in the past and had increased that budget by
approximately $107,000 for FY 2027.

General Fund expenses were at $17. 749 million year to date, $292,000 ahead of 2025 spending.
The difference between budgeted expenses and revenues had grown over the years to the cu1Tent
net deficit of approximalely $2. 7 million. Staff had worked to keep expenditures down in all areas,
and Mr. Jurges believed that the City was in a good position given the circumstances. The

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ __      _

                                                      25
projected end-of-year Fund balance was approximately $3.4 million, and he believes the actual
number will be $4 million or higher. Mayor Bennion asked if this was due to staffing cuts.
Mr. Jurges stated that those cuts were more recent and were not reflected in the repo11. The savings
were the result of department heads exercising caution in spending, as well as the mild winter with
fewer snow days and decreased snow operations costs.

Council Member Hyland asked if there were any red flags the Council should be aware of.
Mr. Jurges repo1ied that there were no areas of concern. Revenues should be in line with or slightly
above budget, and the ending Fund balance would be higher than anticipated.

6.      ACTION ITEMS

        6.1      Consideration of Ordinance 463 Approving a Second Driveway Exception
                 at 1720 East 6670 South. (P11rs11a11t to Cottouwood Heights Code 14. 12.150 this
                 ordi11a11ce will grant ,m exception to Cotto11111ood Heights Code 14.12.Il0(B)(])
                 bv approving a second drivewiiv access to 6670 South).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was reviewed in the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland_moved to APPROVE Ordinance 463 Approving a Second
D1iveway Exception at 1720 East 6670 South. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Bi1Tell-Yes; Council
Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

         6.2     Consideration of Resolution 2026-23 Approving First Amendment to
                 Agreement for Building Services. (This resolution will approve the city's enfrF
                 into th e first amendment to the current agreement for buildiug services
                 wltere1111de1· Sunrise E11gi11eering. LLC provides pln11 rei1iew and building
                 illspectiou services to the dQ1. The main purpose o(tJ,e a111e11d111e11t is to extend
                 its term from 30 June 2026 to 30 June 2029).

Mayor Bennion repo1ied that Sumise Engineering provides plan review and building inspection
services for the City. [n response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, it was
confinned that the only change was to the contract tenn.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-23 Approving First
Amendment to Agreement for Building Services. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Binell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026          Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                       26
        6.3     Consideration of Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to Reappointments to the
                Architectural Review Commission. (This resolution will approve the
                reappoi11t111e11t o[Scott Petei-s and Jesse Alim to the City's Arcliitecturnl RevieJtJ
                Co111111issio11).

Mnyor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. Community
and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, slated that the resolution would reappoint two
currently serving members, and the City appreciates their dedication. ln response to a question,
he reported that the Planning Commission is not tenn-limited.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-24 Consenting to
Reappointments to the Architectural Review Commission. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Bin-ell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

        6.4      Consideration of Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain Property Surplus. (Bv
                 this resn/11tio11, the co1111ci/ will declare surplus a11d desig11ate the method of
                 disposition of a Frml-F-150 vehicle ow11ed bv the City).

Police Chief, Robby Russo, reported that the Ford F-150 is an excess vehicle that is not needed.
The resolution would surplus the vehicle a1~d return the proceeds to the City.

MOTION: Council t-{lembcr Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-25 Declaring Certain
Property Surplus. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion:
Council Member Bin-ell-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Holton-Ycs; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

         6.5     Consideration of Resolution 2026-26 Approving Entrv into an Interlocal
                 Agreement with Utah Division of Forestrv, Fire and State Lands for
                 Participation in the Wildland Fire Program. (Bv t/u's resolution, the council
                 will approve tlze-citv's e11trv i11to an i11terlocal agreement wit/, Uta!, Divisio11 of
                 Forestrv, Fire and State Lands for panicipatiou i11 the division 's "Wildlaud Fire
                 Program" to cooperatively meet their ioiut responsibilities for protecting 11011-
                 f'ederal laud from wildla11d fire).

Mayor Betmion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-26 Approving Entry
into an Interlocal Agreement with Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands for
Participation in the Wild land Fire Program. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell.
Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Bill"ell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                       27
7.      CONSENT CALENDAR

        7.1     Approval of the Minutes for the Citv Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of March 3, 2026, and the Mayor and Citv Council Retreat on
                March 24, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE the Minutes for the City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of March 3, 2026 and the Mayor and City Council Retreat on
March 24, 2026. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed
unanimously.

8.      ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of tbe Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 8:23 p.m.




 Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026   Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                       28
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accumte, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session a11d Business !vleeti11gs field 011 Tuesday,
April 21, 2026.


TeY'L Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ __ __ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for April 21, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      29
                      3a.

                   REPORT

Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC)

         Erin Downs and Atnber Widdison
                        3b.

                    REPORT
Youth City Council Recognition of Outgoing Officers

          Councib11en1ber Suzanne Hyland
                            -
                           4- .
                       ( 1, \ . \      '

                        vood Heights
         City h , t uV'tn 1l1t fll ll) OJII




                     4a.

     STAFF REPORT
Bengal/Highland Intersection
         Matt Shipp
\;~ ;~P6~ Je~6                                                                          •.• ·. .•. . •· ·• • • ••                                                              ~


                                                                                                                                                                               ' Heights
                                                                                                                                                                            ll"DOd
                                                                                                                                                                   1 rnhr:n,o1,~,..._.,,..
/,~~.:.:•.,.:~,;:...,~.~j_._·,:i.__, ,' .:,:,k. :.'.l...;.:~.. ,..:,__ __ ::..:.,_   .. :• ..,.. '.....:':,.. ,c.. " , ~ ' •. . . . . . . c..: .... •.··•~---· •
 o:        Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion
                                                                                 From: Ben Nelsen, P.E. - Assistant City Engineer
           Cottonwood Heights City Council


Date: 19 May 2026


Re: Agreement with Lochner - Bengal Blvd Ped




Meeting Requested:                                Business Meeting 1:8)                Work Session D                 Other O ______ _ _


Public Hearing Needed?                            Yes D No ~ Undetermined D

                                                  Denied O            Approved D Continued 0
  M Approval or Denial
                                                  CM Signature:
                                                                                //(,/1,,<t_._____
                                                                             / ----.,,,,--1/ ·


History Summary:



Engineering staff have engaged H.W. Lochner to provide engineering design services for The Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail,
Phase 1 which runs from approximately City Hall to 2160 E.
The scope ofrt:hetProiect includes installation of a trail rfrom City Hall to 2160 £ which includes modifying the in.tersectioms
of Bengal Blvd at Butler Hills Or and 2160 E to make them more pedestrian friendly. This also includes traffic calming
medians and bulb outs along the project boundaries. Crosswalks will be placed just east of both intersections to increase
safety of students crossing Bengal to and from Brighton High School. Design and ultimately construction of this project
will be funded by county funds allocated to the city and set to expire 31 December 2028. Costs for the 100% design is
$151,638.42


Staff Recommendations:
Approve the agre ement with HW Lochner and authorize the mayor to sign the agreement.
          ..,... ,
·.. ,,.
   Caai;1, ,'
     {$~o: ~vood Heights
       r·,,., b , t u'f"(II thr   r1m)1HJJ




    STAFF REPORT
Fireworks Map Discussion
      Riley Pilgrim
Meeting Requested:            Business Meeting □      Wo rk Session ~    Other 0
Public Hearing Needed?         Yes O No i8l Undetermined 0
                               Denied O    Approved 18.1 Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                               CM Signature: _



Chi ef Pilgrim w il l present th e proposed cha nges to the Firew orks Restrict ions m ap.
       4c.

STAFF REPORT
Budget Discussion
   Scott Jurges
                                                                                                             •11
                                                                                                           vood Hcighls
                                                                                              C11Jfft\.,,,,.,1,y,.,.,,..,.,




Meeting Request ed:         Business Meeting D     Work Session ~   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No ~ Undetermined D
                            Denied D   Approved ~ Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                            CM Signature:_ ·     - ' /{


This is an open discussion on t he FY2027 Tentative Budget to address any questions or com ments the City
Council may h ave.
                           4d.

                   STAFF REPORT
The Budget Officer will present and make available to the
  public a Property Tax Impact Schedule as a separate
        document from other budget documents
                       Scott Jurges
Cottonwood Heights
2026/2027 Proposed Property Tax Impact Schedule
MayS,2026




Cottonwood Heights will consider an increase to its property tax rate from 0.001300 to 0.001857 (estimated) to generate an
additional $3,500,000. The following information is intended to provide decision makers and the public wlth an explanation
of how the city's operations would be affected if the property tax rate remains the same.




Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Rate                                                                     0.001300
Cottonwood Heights current Property Tax Revenue                                                            $     8,164,663
Proposed Revenue with Tax Change                                                                           $    11,664,663
New Property Tax Revenue to Cottonwood Heights                                                             $     3,500,000


Estimated Increase to Cottonwood Heights Property Tax Rate                                                          42.87%


                                                                                               Monthly               Annual
Estimated Increase to a primary residence of $819,000                                          $20.92              $251.03
Estimated increase to a business valued at $ 1,000,000                                         $46.44              $557.28




Affected Department                            Budget Without Tax Change            Proposed Budget        Budget Change


General Government Department


        Mayor & Council                                                385,073                551,629              166,556
        Planning Commission                                              8,000                   8,000
        Legislative Comm & Events                                      153,932                153,932
        Court, Prosecutor & Defender                                   440,000                440,000
        City Manager                                                   734,866                770 ,239               35,373
        City Hall -Ad min Overhead                                     627,729                727,729               100,000
        Finance                                                        570,073                576,586                 6,513
        Attorney                                                       291,500                299,000                 7,500
        Administrative Services                                        814,021                826,534                12,513
        Emergency Management                                            20,300                  20,300
        Information Technology                                        1,298,932              2,033,437              734,505


 General Government Total                                             5,344,426              6,407,386            1,062,960




 Cottonwood Heights                                          1 of 3      26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
      Impact of No Tax Increase - The General Government Department will have the following funding changes:
      Mayor & council will not be funded tor the printed newsletter, Cottonwood Heights Small Business Association
      (CHSBA), Sustc1inability events, Legislative Lobbying, and Capital maintenance of Parks equipment.
      City Manager will not be funded for significant Professional Services (consultants) and training.
      City Hall will not be funded properly for insurance (Auto, Liability, Property) and building maintenance.
      Finance will not be funded for training.
      Attorney will not be funded for subject matter special attorney.
      Administrative SeNices will not be funded for training and employee wellness.
       Information Technology will no t be funded for (l)extenslve software licensing, (2)IT security hardware, so~are, and
       FBI required offsite disaster recovery system, (3)audio visual (AV) system replacement.




Public Safety Department                        Budget Without Tax Change               Proposed Budget       Budget Change


       Police                                                            7,997,630             9,567,556             1,569,926
       Fire                                                              4,963,888             5,173,068                209,180
       Ordinance Enforcement                                               181,279               180,749                   (530)


Public Safety Total                                                     13,142,797            14,921,373              1,778,576


       Impact of No Tax Increase - The Public Safety Department will have the following funding changes:
       Police will reduce five sworn officer FTE's and one office support FTE, reducing the level of service from the 2025-
       2026 Fiscal Year. This will impact all areas of Police services including patrol , canyon traction control, detectives,
       and administration. In addition, there will be no funding for body cameras and vehicle cameras, and traini ng will be
       reduced significantly.
       Fire will reduce Unified Fire Authority funding that equals a reduction in stall at Fire Station 110 from four Firefighters
       per shift to three or three and a half Firefighters per shift.




 Public Works Department                         Budget Without Tax Change              Proposed Budget         Budget Change


        Public Works                                                      1,924,157             2,233,096                308,939
        PW Contrac ts                                                       820,690             1,010,690                190,000


 Public Works Total                                                       2,744,847 •            3,243,786               498,939
                                                 ----- ----- -
        lmpact of No Tax Increase - The Public Works Department will have the following funding changes:
        Public Works will reduce funding for three FTE's reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal year. This
        will Impact road maintenance, snowplowing, flood preparedness. In addition, there will be reduced funding for
        required fire hydrant maintenance, and weekly parks maintenance.




 Cottonwood Heights                                              2 of 3      26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule - Tentative Budget
Community & Econ Dev Department            Budget Without Tax Change         Propose d Budget        Budget Change

      Planning & Econ Dev                                         677,600               837,125              159,525
      Building Engineering & I nsp                                303,000               303,000

CED Total                                                         980,600             1,140,125              159,525

      Impact of No Tax Increase· The CED Department will have the following funding changes: reduced funding tor one
      FTE that helps with planning and permitting, reducing the level of service from the 2025-2026 Fiscal Year. In
      addition they will significantly reduce Professional Services (consultants) and Train ing.




                                           Budget WithoutTax Change           Proposed Budget        Budget Change

Total General Fund Change                                     22,212,670             25,712,670            3,500,000




Cottonwood Heights                                       3 of 3     26-27 Property Tax Impact Schedule -Tentative Budget
                          ,".'-
                       r!f' 1:, .
                       vood Heights
           Ciry bt11,w11 r/1( r,111_10111




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                     6.1
           REPORTS
       Public Works Report
           Matt Shipp
            6.2
        REPORTS
CH Police Department Report
  Chief Russo/Candie Terry
CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


              7.0
          Action Items
         Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                    Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                    Thursday, May 14, 2026 4:47 PM
To:                      Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                 [EXT:]Legislation for May 19th City Council Meet ing
Attachments:             WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 464 Enacti ng Code Chapter 9.63 Regarding Community Clean Energy Program
                         (5.11 .26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ord inance 465 Amending Code Sections 19.75.050 and 19.7 5.030 re
                         Separate Utility Meter (5.12.26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 466 Designating Areas Closed to Discharge
                         of Fireworks.pdf; ~Proposed Fireworks Restricted Areas 2026.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 467-Comcast
                         Cable TV Franch ise Ordinance (FINAL 11 May 2026).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-31 Approving
                         Consulting Agreement with Lochner for Design Services (Bengal Blvd.pdf; WST-Cottonwood_Heights-
                         Consulti ng_Ag reement_with_Lochner_for_ 100%_Design_and_Advertisi ng_Documents_(.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                         Heights-Resolution 2026-32 Approving Historic Committee Appointments.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the May 19th city council
meeting are attached for your review and comment:

    1. Ordinance 464 . This ordinance will effect the city's participation in the Community Clean Energy
       Program under the Community Clean Energy Act (UCA 54-17-901 to -909) by enacting new CH
       Code Chapter 9.63, Community Clean Energy Program.

    2. Ordinance 465 . This ordinance will amend CH Code Sections 19.75.050 and 19.76.030 to allow
       installation of separate utility meters on certain guest house and accessory dwelling unit
       structures. The planning commission recommended allowing separate utility meters if the ow ner
       of the host property pays the resulting bills, but to avoid "open season" on fully "duplexing" single
       family residences in the city I believe (with staff's concurrence) that some additional guardrails
       should be required in the form of the utility company's concurrence that a single meter is
       inadequate. The changes shown on the attachment to this ordinance are to that effect. Under
       LUOMA, the council is free to modify any text amendment recommended by the planning
       commission before enacting it.

    3. Ordinance 466. This ordinance will adopt a revised map provided by UFA showing the hazardous
       areas in the city being closed to fireworks. A copy of the proposed new map also is attached.

    4. Ordinance 467. This ordinance will renew the grant of a cable TV franchise to Comcast of Utah II.
       The original franchise w as granted soon after the city's 2005 incorporation. The form of this
       ordinance wa s heavily negotiated in about 2018 with a Comcast competitor, so to assure equal
       treatment essentially the same form is being used for Comcast's 10-year renewal.

    5. Resolution 2026-31. This resolution will approve the city's entry into an agreement whereunder
       H.W. Lochner, Inc. will provide design and advertising services for Phase I of the city's Bengal
       Blvd. pedestrian trail. Copies of the agreement and its exhibits also are attached.

    6. Resolution 2026-32. By this resolution the council will consent to the manager's reappointment of
       three members of the city's hi storic committee.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns rega rding the attachments.
Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
t el+801.808.6325 I Bio

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegal.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                       2
                             7.1
                       Ordinance 464
   This ordinance will amend the city code by enacting new
Chapter 9.63 causing the city's to participate in the Community
Clean Energy Program under the Community Clean Energy Act,
           UTAH CODE ANN. 54-17-901 to -909.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE No. 464


           AN ORDINANCE ENACTING COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF
        ORDINANCES CHAPTER 9.63, COMl\1UNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

        WHEREAS, in 2019 the Utah State Legislature (the "legislature") enacted H.B. 411, now
codified at UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 54-17-90 I to -909 (the "Act"), titled the "Community Renewable
Energy Act"; and

      WHEREAS, in 2024 Legislat11.I'e enacted H.B. 241 and S.B. Bill 214 which, collectively,
renamed tbe Act the "Community Clean Energy Act" and amended certain provisions of the Act;
and

        WHEREAS, the Act authorizes tlle Utah Public Service Commission (the "Commission")
to establish a program (the "Program") whereby towns, cities and counties ("Communities") may
cooperate with qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from clean
energy resources; and

      WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the Community in which the customer resides satisfies certain requirements, including:

      l. The Community must enter into au agreement with a qualified utility ("Utili(Y
Agreement"):

               (a)     Stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:

                        (i)   Third-pa1ty expertise contracted for by the Division of Public
Utilities and the Office of Consumer Services for assistance with activities associated with initial
approval of the Program; and

                       (ii)    Providing notice to the Community's customers as provided in the
Act;

               (b)   Detennining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges
under the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in participating
customer rates; and

               (c)     Identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;

       2.      Within 90 days after the date of the Commission's order approving the Program the
Community must adopt a local ordinance that establishes participation in the Program and is
consistent witb the terms of the Utility Agreement; and

     3.      The Community must comply with any other tenm or conditions required by tbe
Commission; and

       WHEREAS, the Act f1.11ther authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act; and

      WHEREAS, tbe Commission has adopted sucb niles as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 (the "Rules"): and

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by tbe
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement with other eligible Cmmmmities to establish a cooperative
decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation, resource acquisition, and other
Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible Communities and those that become
participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint decision on any necessary Program
issues: and

       WHEREAS, consistent witb the requirements of the Rules, the city of Cottonwood
Heights ("Ory") entered into an agreement with other eligible Conummities entitled "lnterlocal
Cooperation Agreement Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy
Program" (the "Governance Agreement"), thereby becoming a member of the Community
Renewable Energy Agency (the "Agency"), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about
the proposed Program on behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on or about 16 September 2024
City executed a Utility Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act,
which addresses the issues required by the Act; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on 24 January 2025, and 4 June
2025 Rocky Mountain Power filed an application wilh the Commission seeking approval of the
Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and

      WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on 4 March 2026 the
Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 (the "Commission Order") approvi.ug the
Program; and

        WHEREAS, as contemplated by the Act, City's city council (the "Co1111cil") desires to
adopt this ordinance (this "Ordinance") that satisfies the requirements of the Act; and

        'WHEREAS, the Council desires to take actions which it has determined promotes the
health, safety and welfare of City's residents; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has detennined that adoption of this Ordinance will enhance the
economic well-bei.ug of City and its residents through prudent management of City' s financial
resources; and

         WHEREAS, the Council has deternlined that adoption of this Ordinance will help address
concerns related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to the use of
fossil fuels; and

       WHEREAS. the Council finds that energy sources utilized by and witl1in City therefore
can impact public health, safety and welfare; and
                                                 2
        WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean energy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and

      WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to City and
one which relies on preservation of the environment and protection of natural resources; and

       WHEREAS, City and its residents have shown an interest in environmental stewardship
through various initiatives and activities surrounding growth and development; and

        WHEREAS, City heretofore has adopted a sustainable energy policy, entered into an
inter!ocal agreemen1 for sustainability services, adopted an interlocal sustainability action plan,
and undertaken other actions intended to promote environmental stewardship; and

       WHEREAS, the Council believes that detenn ining and undertaking further actions
designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial stewardship and
promoting economic growth is an important component of safeguarding public health, safety and
welfare; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 19 May 2026 to, among other things,
consider adopting the Program on behalf of City's electric customers;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section l.      Adoption ,md E1wct111e11f. The Council hereby enacts Chapter 9.63 of the
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES ("Code"), which is published as a code in book
fonn, as shown on the attached exhibit, with additions to current Title 9 underlined and deletions
to current Title 9 m=ucl: tlwo11gh . Such Chapter 9.63 have been filed for use and examination in the
office of the City's Recorder.

         Section 2.     Actio11 of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
 City that are in conformity with the puipose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
 after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confinned and approved.

        Section 3.       Se1•erabililf'. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
 severable, and if any section. paragraph, clause or provision ofthis Ordinance shall, fo r any reason,
 be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
 paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
 provisions of this Ordinance.

          Section 4.     Repealer . All ordinances or pa11s thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
 are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

         Section 5.      Ef(ectfre Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 464, shall take immediate
 effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
 the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.
                                                   3
     PASSED AND APPROVED this I 9th day of May 2026.

ATTEST:                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL

                                       By _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
By: - - --    - -- - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                       VOTING:

                                       Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay _
                                       Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                       Suzanne Hyland                Yea _ Nay_
                                       Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay _
                                       Ellen Birrell                 Yea _ Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 19'" day of May 2026.

     POSTED this_ day of May 2026.




                                           4
                               EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE No. 467



                                           Title 9

                                 HEALTH AND SAFETY


Chapters:
9.05 Nuisances and Abatement
9.20 Helicopter Flights
9.25 Parachute Jumping
9.30 Sewers
9.35 Scavenging
9.40 Collection and Transportation of Solid Waste
9.50 Weeds and Refuse
9.55 Fumigation
9.60 Air Pollution Control
9.62 Idling Vehicles
9.63 C ommnnitv Clenn Energv Program
9.65 Fire Code
9.70 Fire Inspection
9.75 Pyrotechnics, Explosives and Fireworks
9.77 Fire Restrictions in Wildland Interface Areas
9.80 Cost Recovery-Fire Department
9.8   Adoption of Salt Lake County Health Department Regu1ations by Reference
9.90 Penalty for Violation


                                            Chapter 9.63

                        COi\lMUNITY CL EAN ENERGY PROGRAM

Sections:
9.63.010       Par ticipation in comm unity clean cnen!\' program.
9.63.020       Customer participation in cornmunitv dean energv program.
9.63.0JO       Termination fees.
9.63.040       Acgnisition of clean energy reso urces.
9.63.050       P rogram rates and r ate ncljustmeut liliugs.
9.63.060       Utililv billing for Jrnrticipating customers.
9.63.070       Citv oarticipnlion in progr:1111.

9.63.010    Pnrticipation in community clean energv program.
   The citv herebv establishes its participation in the Conumrnitv Clean Enernv Prog;ram (the
"I'mgrn111") as approved bv the Public Service Comm ission of Utah (the " Co111111is.1·io11") .
    A. Commission Order. On 4 March 2026 tbe Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-
035-06 (the "C'o111111issin11 Order" ) approv in!! tue Program. The Commission Order is on file with
the Commission. The Prom-am ' s rates, niles ("R11les"). and requirements are governed by the
                                                     5
Commission Order, and may be modified from time to time bv subsequent Rules and orders
adopted by the Commission. To the extent tbat the Commission Order or any subsequent rule or
order adopted by the Commission contradicts any portion of this Chapter 9.63, the Commission
Order or 111le or order adopted by the Commission shall govern.
    B. Eligible Customers. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §54- 17-905(5). residential customers
participating in the net metering program under U TAH CODE ANN. Title 54. Chapter 15, Net
Metering of Electricity. Rocky Mounta in Power ("/Uv!P" ) Schedule 135, are not eligible to
participate in the Pro!!ram. All other retail electric customers ofRMP within the current and future
boundaries of the city, includi ng all residential. commercial. and industrial customers, are eligible
to participate in the Prouram ("Eligihle C'11sromers"). Eligible Customers include rooftop solar
customers on R.!v1P Schedules 136 and 137. which are compensated throuE!h an export credit rather
than a net metering credit.
    C. implementation Date. The Program shall be implemented on tl1e date that RMP sends out
the first Notices identified in Section 9.63.020. below (the "Program [111ple111enrarion Dare").
Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the Notices and decl ine to opt
out of participation in the Proeram bv the date set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and
the Rules. the Notices shall be selll to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that
applies to each such customer (the " Customer C'ommenceme111 Dore"), as set forth in the Rules.

9.63.020 C ustomer p:wticipation in community clean energv program.
    A. Automatic Enrollment. Each Elieible Customer shall be automaticallv enrolled io the
Prm1ram unless the customer outs out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.
    8 . Notices. As set forth in the Act and the Rules, before any Eligible Customer becomes a
participant in the Proeram. RMP first sha ll deliver to each Eli!!ible Customer certain notices
(collectivelv, the '"Norices") containing content and in the form. manner. and deliverv method as
required bv the Act and Rules and other orders and mies.
     C. Opt-Out. Each Eligible Customer mav elect not to participate in the Program and instead
to pay applicable existing: electric rates by !!ivi1H! notice to RMP in the manner and within the time
period set forth in the Notices.
     I. first Opt-Out Notice. RMP shall provide a First Opt-Out Notice. separate from standard
monthlv bills. to each Eli2ible Customer within the city, no earlier than 60 davs and 110 later than
30 days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable to each customer. The First Opt-
Out Notice shall. in all material respects. use the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as
approved by the Commission.
     2. Second Opt-Out Notice. RMP shall provide a Second Opt-Out Notice, separate from
standard monthly bills, to each Eliuible Customer within the citv, at least l5 days after the First
Opt-Out Notice was provided and at least seven days before the Customer Commencement Date
applicable to such customer. The Second Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects. use the
 fom1 and content of the Second Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Comm ission.
     3. Each Eli e:ible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the Second Ogt-Out
 Notice as described herein nnd decl ines to opt out of the Program by the customer's Customer
 Commencement Date will be enrolled in the Pro1ernm.
     D. Customer Option to Opt-Tn to Program . An Elir.rible Customer located within the city that
 is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to participate in the PrO!!ram by providing
 notice to RMP in tbe fonn and content approved bv the Commission. Following such notice to opt
 in to the Program, the customer will be enrolled in the Prol!ram starting with the billing period
 following the notice in which it is reasonably practicable for RMP lo enroll such customer. The
 reasonably practicable bil ling period shall be based on when the notice was received from the
                                                   6
customer and the customer's billing cvd e. Follow ing enrollment in the Program. the customer
shal l be subject to all Program regniremcnts.
    E. Customer Option to Exit Program. Customers enrolled in the Program may exit the
Program by givin g notice to RMP.

9.63.030      Termination fees.
    A. ff a customer declines to opt out of ~1e Program prior to the applicable Customer
Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program. the exiting customer may be required
to pav a tenuination fee. as sel forth in this section.
    B. When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate schedule of
the exitin!.! customer as approved by the Commission and may be modified from time to time bv
subsequent orders of the Commission.
    C. A tem1ination fee shall not apply in the follow i1rn circumstances:
    I. Any customer that opts out of the Program within the "Cancellation Period" applicable to
that customer. as defined in the Rules:
    2. Anv customer that ceases to be an electric customer of RMP:
    3. Anv customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries of a
commun itv that participates in the Program:
    4. Anv customer that seeks protection through bankrnptcy moceedings: and
    5. Anv customer enrolled iu Schedu le 3 bil l assistance ("J,011·-Tncome Lifeline Program'')_

9.63.040         Acgaisition of cle:rn energv r_esources.
     A. For purposes of this section. "clean energi• resource" shall bave the definition set forth in
the Act.
     B. Ri\r!P nmv adopt or procure one or more cle[ln enernv resources to serve the needs and goals
of the Pro2ram. The acquisition of any such clean enenrv resource must follow solicitation
application ru1d ev11luation criteria aoproved by the Commission.
     C. Anv clean enere-v reso1J1rce adopted or procured bv RMP to serve the needs and goals of
the Prom-am must be approved bv the Commission based on a finding the same is reasonable and
 in the public interest.
      D. The Commi.ssion shall determine the method of cost recoverv for anv clean energy resource
acquired to meet Pro!.!ram needs and goals_ and the Commission's detenuination re2arding cost
 recoverv may affect Pro!!ram rates.

9.63.050       Program rntes and rate ad justment fil ings.
    A. Proi:uam rates will be detenn ined bv the Commission.
    B. The initial Program rates were determined by the Conm1ission in tbe Commission Order.
    C. Prog:ram rates may be adjusted by the Conuni.ssion from time to time. consistent with the
procedures approved by tl.ie Commission for adjustirnz Program rates.

9.63.060       Utilitv billing for participating customers.
    Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthlv basis and shall:
    A . Include in forniation in its monthly bills to participating customers identifyin rr the Pro2:ram
cost: and
    B. Provide notice lo participating customers of any chanue in rates for participation in the
Progrnm.


                                                   7
9.63.070        Citv particip::1tion in p rogram.
     A. Through its membership iu the Community Renewable Energy Agencv, the city
p::u1icipated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in future dec istons
regarding c lean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition. and certain other
Program issues.
     B. Consistent with UTAH CODE ANN. §54-l 7-903(2)(a), the city entered into an agreement
with RMP regarding the facilitation of the Program (the "Urilit1· Agreemenf'' ). Pursuant to the
Utility Agreement, the city:
      1. Shall pay for the costs of tbird-partv expertise contracted for in connection with the
Pro!'.!ram's development and iuitial aoproval by the Commission:
     2. Shall pay its proportional costs associated witb RMP providine the Notices to the Citv 's
customers as discussed in Section 9.63 .020 above·
     3. Tenn ination charges not paid by a participatine customer shall be included in participating
customer rates and shall not be paid bv the city:
     4. There shal l be no initiallv proposed "Reolaced Asset" :is that term is defined bv UTAH
CODE ANN. §54- 17-902(15).
     C. The city has alreadv approved the appropriation of funds and has already paid those funds
to the A!!encv for the A!!ency to make pavments for the costs of third-party expe11ise contracted
for in connection with the Program' s development and initial approval by the Commission
pursuant to the Govern:ince Agreement.
     D. The citv hereby approves the appropriation offunds to pav its proportional costs associated
with RMP orovidin2: the Notices to the Citv's customers as discussed in Section 9.63 .0?0_ above.
      E. The city shall not be obligated to pav anv costs of the Program other than those costs set
forth herein and anv costs that the citv may bear as a utilitv customer that participates in the
Program, if applicable.




                                                  8
                              7.2
                        Ordinance 465
This ordinance will amend the city code to allow the installation
        of separate utility meters on certain residences.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE No. 465

             AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 19.75.050 AND 19.76.030
                 OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
                       REGARDING SEPARATE UTlLlTY METERS

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-10 I et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development: and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality's planning commission shall prepare and
reconunend to the mW1icipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land use
ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning commission's
reconunendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative body
to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the "Councif') ofthe city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "Ciry") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City's code oford.inances (the "Code"); and

       WHEREAS, thereafter, the City's planning commission (the "Planning Commission")
formulated proposed amendments (the "Amendments") to Sections 19.75.050 and 19.76.030 of the
Code concerning separate utility meters on certain types of residences in the City; and

        WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens were
given the oppo1iunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

     WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission reconuneuded the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

     WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public conm1enl concerning the
Amendments; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of which
is annexed as fill ex11ibit to th.is ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the Council to the
form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission, as authorized by
UTAH CODE ANN. l 0-9a-502(2); and

        WHEREAS, on 19 May 2026 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among other
things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

     WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendcitions of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input, the
Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed:

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council. of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section l.     Adoption of Ame11dme11ts. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the cutTent ordinance are 5tttlffi
through and additions to the current ordinance are underlined.

        Section 2.      Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the pmpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"), whether
taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confinned and approved.

        Section 3.     Sei•erabilitr. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to
be invalid or tmenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause
or prov1s1on shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

        Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effectilie Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 465, shall take immediate effect
as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by la,v and deposited and recorded in the office
of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of May 2026.

 ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - -- - - - - -                       By:
                                                       --=-----------,----------
  Tiffany Janzen, Deputy Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                 VOTING:

                                                 Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea _Nay_
                                                 Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay _
                                                 Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay _
                                                 Shawn E. Newell                 Yea _ Nay_
                                                 Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay _

         DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 19'b day of May 2026.

         POSTED this _ day of May 2026.



                                                       2
                            EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 465

19.75.050 Development standards.
     A. The property's record owner (including titleholders and contract purchasers) must occupy
either the primary dwelling unit or the approved ADU as such owner's pennanent residence and at
no time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit. An application for an ADU pennit shall include
evidence of owner occupancy in the form of the affidavit required by Section 19.77.060 and such
other verification(s) as the city reasonably may require.
     B. AD Us shall not be used as short-term rentals.
     C. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.
     D. The design and size of the ADU shall confom1 to all current applicable standards in the
building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical. fire, health, and any other applicable codes. When a new
internal ADU is proposed in an existing home. the entire internal ADU shall be brought up to all
minimum standards, as inspected and approved by city staff.
     E.
     .L The installation of separate utility meters for an internal ADU is prohibited
                                                                                    0


     2. The installation of separate utility meters for 11 detached ADU is pennitted. provided:
     (a) The applicant demonstrates. with supportin!:! documentation from the applicable utilitv
provider. that the existing util ities cannot be adequatel v sized for the ADU or that bifurcation from
the principal residence cannot be reasonablv achieved: and
     {b) The oropert v's record owner remains responsible for all utilitv billings associated with both
the primar,r dwelling and the ADU .
      F. Each internal ADU shall require one off-street parking space in addition to required parking
for the primary dwelling unit. In no case shall fewer than three total off-street parking stalls be
provided for any property with an internal ADU. The additional required parking space shall not be
located behind or in front one of the required parking spaces for the primary dwelling (i.e., tandem
parking is prohibited).
      G. Each detached ADU shall require two off-street parking spaces in addition to required parking
 for the primary dwelling unit. Creation of additional off-street parking spaces, excluding previously
existing driveways, is prohibited in the front yard of the subject property. Additional required parking
spaces for detached ADUs shall not be located behind or in front of one of the required parking spaces
 for the primary dwelling or the detached ADU (i.e., tandem parking is prohibited).
      H. Any parking spaces contained within a garage or carport shall be replaced ifan internal ADU
 is created within the garage or carport.
      T. Each internal ADU shall be designed in a manner that does not change the appearance of the
 primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling.
      J. An iiltemal ADU may not be created within a mobile home as defined in UTAH CODE ANN.
 57-16-3, as amended.
      K. Detached AD Us shall be required to install fencing and/or a landscaping buffer to mitigate the
 impact of parking areas and ADU entrances from adjoining property owners. Fencing shall be a solid
 visual barrier and shall comply with applicable fencing requirements. Landscaping shall be designed
 to obstmct visual impact from adjoining propetties. In considering detached ADUs, the planning
 commission may require additional buffering requirements if it finds that such requirements will
 mitigate a perceived negative impact created by the ADU.                      •
      L. Detached AD Us shall be subject to the following additional development standards:
      1. Aliy detached ADU shall be a peimanent structure. Trailers, mobile homes, and other portable
 structures shall not be pennitted as detached ADUs. The city's building official shall make the
 determination of whether or not a structure is perm.anent.

                                                   3
    2. Any detached ADU shall be located in the rear yard of a property and shall maintain a setback
of at least six feet from the primary structure.
    3. Any detached ADU shall be subject to primary stmcture side yard and rear setback standards
for the zone in which it is located.
    4. Any detached ADU shall meet all accessory building standards for height, lot coverage, rear-
yard coverage, size, and any other appLicable standards for the zone in which it is located;
    5. Any detached ADU on a flag lot shall meet primary stmcture flag lot setback standards for
the zone in which it is located: and
    6. Conversion of existing accessory buildings to detached ADUs is only permitted if the strncture
meets or is modified to meet all current city standards and all applicable provisions of this chapter.


19.76.030 Struchtres, bulk and massing requirements.
     A. Dwellings, including guest homes, on lots.
     l . Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this title. Except for group
dwellings and guest houses, not more than one dwelling structure shall occupy a lot.
     2. Guest houses shall be a permitted use in the following zones:
     (a) R-1-8; R-1-10; and R-1-15
     (b) RR-1-21; R.R-1-29; and RR-1-43
     (c) F-1-21; and F-1-43
     (d) F-20
     3. The guest house shall be a detached accessory use to a principal residence and shall be located
in the rear yard of the principal lot.
     4. The maximum allowed area of the guest house shall not exceed 25% of the area of the rear
yard.
     5. The floor area of the guest house and principal residence combined shall not exceed the
maximum impervious surface coverage for the site.
     6. The rental or lease of a guest house, or the use of a guest house as a pennanent residence for a
second family on the premises shall be prohibited.
     7.
     {_Q)_ Installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is p!'&l+ili-ited pem1itted. orovided:
     ill The applicant has demonstrated. with supportu1!! documentation from the applicable utilitv
provider. that the existin!! utilities cannot be adequatelv sized for the Quest house or that bifurcation
from the princ.ipal residence cannot be reasonably achieved:
     (ill The property 's record owner remains responsible fo r all utilitv billin!!s associated with both
tl1e primary dwelling and the guest house; and
     (iii)The propetty 's record owner provides and records in the office of the Recocder of Salt Lah
Ccmnty a~ainst title to the subject propertv a notarized affidavit that includes statements
acknowledr!ing the presellce of a uuest house on the propenv and that the guest house may only be
used io accordnnce with the citv 's land use regulations. Each subsequent cha nee in record ownershi_g_
of the property shall require recording of a new affidavit.
      8. All bulk and massing requirements for accessory buildings, as per the applicable zone, shall
be applicable to the guest house.




                                                      4
                        Cottonwood Heights
                        C11y INtu-rm the l'tlll)OIII




                                 7.3
                     Ordinance 466
 This ordinance will adopt a revised map provided by UFA
   showing the hazardous areas in the city being closed to
fireworks. A copy of the proposed new map also is attached.




                        Cottonwood Heights
                        City IN111wn the <rlll)O•II
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 466

 AN ORDINANCE DESIGNATING AREAS CLOSED TO DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS AND
  OTHER IGNITION SOURCES DUE TO HISTORICAL HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTAL
 CONDITIONS AND ADOPTING A MAP SHOWING THE BOUNDARIES OF SUCH AREAS

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. l SA-5-202.5 and related Utah statutes concern pennissible
fireworks restrictions and prohibit cities from adopting more stringent restrictions; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to such Utah statutes, areas within a city which have been subject
to hazardous environmental conditions in at least two of the preceding five years may be so
designated by the city before July l s t as histo1ically hazardous areas ("Hazardous Areas") which
are closed to the discharge of fireworks, provided that a map is produced clearly defining the
boundaries of such areas and such map is provided to the county in which the defined areas are
located; and

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"), in consultation with the Unified
Fire Authority, has prepared a map (the "Map") of the Hazardous Areas within the City which
should be closed to the discharge of fireworks and other potential ignition sources (such as fires ,
matches, lighters, smoking materials, etc.) (''potential ignition sources"); and

        \VHEREAS, the City's city council (the "Council") met on 19 May 2026 to consider,
among other things, approving and adopting the Map as clearly defining the boundaries of the
City' s Hazardous Areas; ordering that the City's Hazardous Areas be closed to fireworks and other
potential ignition sources, subject to any future amendment of the Map by the Council; and
ordering that the Map be provided to Salt Lake County immediately; and

      WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Map, a photocopy of which is
annexed hereto as an exhibit; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and adopt the Map
and to otherwise act as proposed above;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
that:
        Section 1.     Adoption o{Map.

               (a)    The Map is hereby approved and adopted as clearly defining the boundaries
of the City's Hazardous Areas, with the attached Map superseding any prior-approved Hazardous
Areas map;

                (b)     The City's Hazardous Areas are closed to the discharge of fireworks and
other potential ignition sources (such as fires, matches, lighters, smoking materials, etc.), subject
to any future amendment of the map by the Council, to the fullest extent permissible under Utah
statute and City ordinance; and
              (c)    The City's manager and recorder are authorized and directed to provide a
copy of the Map to Salt Lake Cmmty immediately.

       Section 2.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.       Severabilitv. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

         Section 4.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 466, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 19th day of May 2026.

ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - - -- - - - - -                       By _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                               VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea _Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay _
                                               Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                Yea _Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                  Yea _ Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 19th day of May 2026.

       POSTED this_ day of May 2026.




                                                  2
 EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE No. 466

(Attach Copy ofHazardous Areas Map)




                 3
     CortDrNOOdHe,ghts
      1277EB~olBMI
CG-!IOIIMOC>d Heighb, UT 8,U:t1
        (IIIIJ M UOOI
                                  ,   __
                                       ---·
                                      ___,1..,,n:t

                                            - "·
                                      aui.,,,.e-,,,
                                                      2026 Current & Proposed Firework Restrictions
                               7.4
                         Ordinance 467
This ordinance will grant to Comcast of Utah II, Inc. a franchise
to operate and n1aintain a cable television system within the city
                on certain tern1s and conditions.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                                      ORDINANCE No. 467

                      AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO
                COMCAST OF UTAH II, INC. TO OPERATE AND MAINTAIN A
                 CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM WITHIN THE CITY; SETTING
                    FORTH THE CONDITIONS OF THE GRAITT OF SUCH
                     FRANCHISE; PROVIDING FOR REGULATION AND
                  ADMINISTRATION OF THE CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM;
                  AND PRESCRIBING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF THE
                               FRANCHISE PROVISIONS

        WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") is authorized to grant and renew
cable licenses for the installation. operation, and maintenance of cable television systems and to
otherwise regulate cable communications services within City's boundaries by virtue of federal
and state statutes, by City's police powers, by City's authority over its public rights-of-way, and
by City's other powers and authority; and

       WHEREAS, Comcast of Utah II, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation ("Provider"), provides
cable communications services in the City and desires to continue to construct, operate and
maintain a cable television system within City's boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, City's municipal council (the "Collncif") met in regular session 011 I 9 May
2026 to consider, among other things, the adoption of an ordinance renewing such a franchise to
Provider; and

        WHEREAS, the Council finds that (a) the development of competitive cab'le television
services is essential and can provide great economic and social benefit to City's residents, and (b)
because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated with such services, the public
convenience, safety and general welfare can be achieved by establishing regulatory powers, and
(c) the intent of this ordinance (this "Ordinance") is to attain the best possible public benefit for
City's residents: and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to adopt an ordinance granting a
renewal non-exclusive franchise to Provider to operate a cable television system within City's
boundaries.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        Section I.     Definitions. For the purpose of this Ordinance, the following terms,
phrases, words, abbreviations, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
plural include the singular, words in the singular include the plural, and the use of any gender shall
be applicable to all genders whenever the sense requires. The words "shalf' and "wilf' are
mandatory and the word "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and
ordinary meaning.
               (a)    "Basic Cable" is the lowest price tier of service that includes the
retransmission of local broadcast television signals and the cable-casting of public, educational
and government access channels.

              (b)    "Cable Act" means the Communications Act of 1934, including the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996.

              (c)    "Cable Service" shall mean (i) the one-way transmission to Subscribers of
(A) video programming, or (B) other programming service, and (ii) Subscriber interaction, if any,
which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or other programming
service.

               (d)    "Cable s:rstem" shall have the meaning provided for "Cable System" in the
Cable Act. Unless otherwise specified, such tem1in this Ordinance shall refer to the Cable System
constructed and operated by Provider in the Service Area pursuant to the Franchise.

               (e)   "City" shall mean the city of Cottonwood Heights, Utah, aU the territory
within its present municipal boundaries and any additions thereto by annexation or other legal
means.

               (t)    "City Code" shall mean the code of ordinances and other rules and
regulations adopted by City from time-to-time.

              (g)   "FCC' shall mean the Federal Communications Commission or any
successor governmental entity.

                 (h)     "Franchise" shall mean the initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued
by City, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution,
contract, cettificate, or otherwise, which authorizes construction and operation of Provider's Cable
System. The Franchise granted hereunder is a non-exclusive franchise.

                (i)      "Franchise Fee" means any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by
City or another govenunent entity on Provider or the Subscribers, or both, solely because of their
status as such. The term "Franchise Fee" does not include (i) any tax, fee, or assessment of general
applicability; (ii) capital costs which are required by the Franchise to be incurred by Provider for
public, educational and governmental access facilities, so long as Provider is able to pass such
costs directly through to the Subscribers; or (iii) requirements or charges incidental to the awarding
or enforcing of the Franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages.

                (j)    "Gross Revenue" means all revenue of any kind or nature received directly
or indirectly by Provider, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parent and any person, firm or corporation in
which Provider bas a financial interest or which has a financial interest in Provider, according to
generally accepted accounting principles, arising from or attributable to Provider's operation of its
Cable System to provide Cable Services within City, including, but not limited to:

                       (i)     Revenue from all charges for Cable Services provided to
Subscribers;
                                                  2
                      (ii)   Revenue directly derived and attributable to the sale of commercial
advertising upon the Cable System;

                       (iii)   Revenue from all charges for the leased use of studios;

                       (iv)    Revenue from all charges for the use of or lease of leased access
channels;

                     (v)     Monthly recurring revenue from all charges for the installation,
removal, connection and reinstatement of equipment necessary for a Subscriber to receive Cable
Services; and

                   (vi) Revenue from the sale, exchange, use or cablecast of any
programming developed for community use or institutional Subscribers.

"Gross Re11e1111es" shall not include taxes or fees (except the Franchise Fee) collected by Provider
ou behalf of any govenunental authority; any increase in the value of stock, security or asset; any
surcharges for underground conversion of cable plant costs; any increase in the value of any stock,
security or asset; the value of complimentary service provided to Provider's employees; and
dividends or other distributions made in respect of any stock or securities; value received by
Provider or any of its affiliates through cooperative advertising; or revenues which cannot be
collected by Provider and are identified as bad debt (provided, however, that ifrevenue previously
representing bad debt is collected, that revenue shall be included in Gross Revenue for the
collection period).

               (k)    "Living Unit" means a distinct address as tracked in the network inventory
used by Provider to identify existing or potential Subscribers. This includes, but is not limited to,
single fami ly homes, multi-dwelling units (e.g., apartment buildings and condominiums) and
business locations.

              (I)    "Mulriple Dwelling Unit" or "MDU' means any adjacent building(s) such
as apartments under common ownership containing more th.an four dwelling units used as living
quarters.

                 (m) "Person" means any person, finn, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company or organization of any kind other than City.

                (n)    "Qualified living Unit" means any Living Unit located at a distinct address
that is qualified for Cable Service in accordance with Provider's reasonably discretionary but
nondiscriminatory servicing criteria.

                (o)     "Reasonable notice." Unless otherwise defined herein, "reasonable notice"
means the delivery of written notice by one Party to the other Party at least thirty (30) days prior
to the action proposed for the alleged defect, situation or default. Jn the event of any emergency
that poses an immediate risk of hann to the health safety, welfare or property of City residents,
"reasonable notice" shall be constrned to mean written or verbal notice of the action, condition or
defect or situation as soon as practicable LU1der the circumstances.

                                                  3
                (p)    "Service A,-ea" means the territory within City's municipal boundaries from
time to time.

                (q)    "Street" means the surface of and space above and below any public street,
road, highway, easement, lane, path. alley or other public right-of-way owned by City as now or
hereafter laid out by or dedicated to City.

                (r)     "Subscriber" means any Person who legally receives any one or more of the
Cable Services provided by means of or in connection with the Cable System, whether or not a fee
is paid for such service.

       Section 2.      Police Power. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as an
abrogation by City of any of its lawful police powers. City reserves the right to adopt such
additional ordinances, mies and regulations as it shall find to he in City's best interests, so long as
such actions do not materially impair Provider's rights hereunder.

       Section 3.       Grnnt of Franchise.

               (a)    No11excl11sive Franchise. City hereby grants to Provider a nonexclusive
Franchise to construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct a Cable System within the Streets in the
Service Area. The Franchise shall constitute both a right and an obligatiou to provide the services
ofa Cable System as required by this Ordinance. City reserves the right to grant to other providers,
on materially equivalent tenns, such additional franchises or other similar lawful authorization to
provide Cable Services within the Service Area as City deems appropriate.

                       (i)    This Franchise is granted under the teffilS and conditions specified
herein and is intended to be consistent with federal and state laws and regulations. If any portion
of this Agreement conflicts with federal or state laws, rules and regulations, such federal or
state laws, rules nnd regulations shall be deemed controlling, and the conflicting provisions
of this Agreement shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to fully comply with such
laws, rules mtd regulittious.

                       (ii)   The Franchise also is subject to the City Code and other City
ordinances now or hereafter in effect. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to waive the
requirements of the City Code and ordinances regarding pennits, fees to be paid or manner of
construction. Provider agrees to abide by any existing or new ordinances or regulations of general
applicability to the operation of the Cable System in the Service Area, adopted in the manner
provided by Law, so long as such ordinances or regulations do not materially impair Provider's
express rights under this Franchise. Subject to the foregoing, the terms of this Ordinance shall
control any conflicting terms of any subsequently-enacted City ordinance.

                      (iii) To the extent allowed by law, City retains the authority to regulate
 and receive compensation for non-Cable Services. If Provider is allowed by law and chooses to
 provide non-Cable Services, then both parties will negotiate the tenns and fees in accordance with
 applicable law.

                 (b)     Term. The term (the "Term") of the Franchise and all rights, privileges,
 obligations, and restrictions pertaining thereto shall remain in effect for ten years from the effective
 date of this Ordinance, unless sooner terminated as provided for herein.
                                                    4
               (c)     Renev•mls. Any renewals of the Franchise shall be conducted pursuant to
applicable law in effect at that time, which is currently Section 626 of the Cable Communications
Policy Act of 1984 and the Cable Television and Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, as amended by the TelecommUllications Act of 1996.

                (d)     Other FrancMsees. The Franchise granted to Provider is nonexclusive. City
specifically reserves the right to grant to one or more third party(ies). at any time, such additional
franchises for one or more Cable System(s) as it deems appropriate, so long as such additional
grants do not materially modify, revoke, or tenninate any rights previously granted to Provider or
any other franchisee. Subject to, and unless otherwise pennitted by, federal law, if the material
provisions of such additional franchises are not comparable to those of this Franchise, to avoid
City granting an unfair competitive advantage to one Person over another, Provider may request
the City amend this Franchise to establish competitive equity, which request shall not be
unreasonably denied.

              (e)    Franchise Required. Subject to federal law, no Cable System shall be
allowed to occupy or use the Streets or operate within the Service Area without being granted a
Franchise.

               (f)   Additional Requiremems. Subject to federal law, City may establish
appropriate requirements of new Franchises or Franchise renewals to reflect the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into accmmt the costs of meeting such needs and
interests .

              (g)    No Favoritism. Subject to federal law, City may grant a Franchise for all or
any defined portion of the Service Area, provided that one operator is not granted unfair
competitive advantage over another by virtue of having been awarded a Franchise.

                (h)     Public Records. Subject to state and federal law, all new aud renewal
Franchise applications, when filed, shall be available for public inspection at places designated by
City. Infonnation previously identified by Provider or an applicant as "proprietary and
confidential" shall not be disclosed by City without Provider's or the applicant's consent, except
to the extent state law or any City ordinance adopted pursuant to state law requires its disclosure.
Subject to federal law, City may grant or may decline to grant any Franchise.

                 (i)     Af(iliales and Contractors. Any affiliate of Provider directly involved in the
offering or delivery of Cable Services in the Service Area, or directly involved in the management
or operation of the Cable System in the Service Area, shall comply with the obligations of this
Ordinance. To the extent Provider uses any third-patties (whether or not affiliated with Provider)
to fulfill its obligations w1der this Ordinance, Provider will insure such parties comply with the
terms and conditions of this Ordinance. To the extent Provider constmcts and installs its facilities
in the Streets, such installations and facilities will be subject to the tem1s and conditions contained
in this Ordinance. Any affiliate of Provider which constrncts, installs or maintains the Cable
System but does not provide Cable Services in the City through the Cable System shall not be
subject to this Ordinance, but shall be subject to all other applicable laws and to the requirements
of any separate franchise ordinance or agreement between City and such affiliate of Provider.

        Section 4.      Installation, Operation imd Maintenance. For the purposes of operating
                                                   5
and maintaining a Cable System in the Service Area, Provider may erect, install, construct, repair,
replace, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the Streets within the
Service Area such lines, cables, conductors, ducts , conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, pedestals, attachments and other property and equipment as are necessary and
appurtenant to the operation of the Cable System, provided that all applicable pennits are applied
for and granted, all fees paid and all other City codes and ordinances are otherwise complied with.
Provider also shall comply with the following requirements:

               (a)     Plans and Approvals. Provider's use of the Streets shall be subject to all
City ordinances, rules and policies in effect from time to time. Prior to constmction or alteration
of the Cable System, Provider shall in each case file plans with all appropriate departments and
utility companies and receive written approval of such plans, which approval by City departments
shall not be unreasonably withheld. Issuance of excavation, construction or similar pennits as
required by ordinance shall constitute such written approval.

                 (b)    Interference. Provider shall constrnct and maintain its Cable System so as
not to interfere with other uses of the Streets. Provider shall make use of existing poles and other
facilities available to Provider wherever possible. Provider shall make reasonable best efforts to
individually notify all residents affected by proposed construction in writing at least 72 hams prior
to the commencement of that work; provided that such prior notification will not unnecessari.ly
delay repair or restoration of existing services or slow expeditious remedy of unsafe conditions.

                (c)     No Inappropriate Use. Notwithstanding the above grant to use City's
Streets, no Street shall be used by Provider if City, in its reasonable opinion, detem1ines that such
use is inconsistent with the tenns, conditions or provisions by which such Street was created or
dedicated, or presently used.

              (d)     Priva1e Properrv. Nothing coutained herein may be construed as granting
to Provider any rights whatsoever to the use of any private prope1ty without the consent of the
owner thereof unless such is pennitted by UTAH CODE ANN. § 54-4-13, as amended.

       Section 5.      Acceptance; Effective Date.

             (a)    Acceptance. Within 60 days after the passage of this Ordinance by the
Council, Provider shall send a written acceptance thereof to City. Such acceptance will
acknowledge that Provider agrees to be bowtd by and to comply \.vith the provisions contained
herein.

               (b)     Effective Date. The Franchise granted herein will take effect and be in full
force from and after final enactment of this Ordinance by the Council, subject to acceptance by
Provider, and shall continue in full force and effect for the Tenn, unless sooner tenninated as
provided in section 19 ("Franchise Violations''), below.

       Section 6.    Additional Conditions on Use of Streets. Provider shall comply with the
following requirements:

               (a)    Localion v(Facilities. All transmission and distribution structures, poles,
lines and equipment installed or erected by Provider within the Service Area pursuant to the
Franchise shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets,
                                               6
alleys, and other public ways and places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said streets, alleys or other public
ways and places. All of Provider's poles, lines, and other equipment installed or erected in the
Service Area shall be located, to the greatest extent reasonably practicable, to be visually
unobtmsive and to preserve the natural beauty and neighborhood aesthetics within the Service
Area. No poles or strnctures shall be erected by Provider without City's prior approval through
established permit procedure pursuant to applicable City Code. The location of any Cable System
pole or stmcture shall be removed or modified by Provider whenever City determines that the
public health, safety and welfare would be negatively affected. If City requires the removal or
relocation of part of the Cable System, such removal or relocation shall be solely at Provider's
expense unless the relocation or removal requested by City is solely for aesthetic reasons during
the Tem1, in which event such relocation or removal shall be performed at City's expense.

                (b}     Tri111111ing/C11t1i11g Trees. Provider shall have the authority to trim trees or
other natural growth overhanging any of its Cable System so as to prevent the branches from
coming in contact with Provider's wires, cables or other equipment. Provider shall use its best
efforts, including written notice, to notify owners of property adjacent to the trees to be trimmed
at least 72 hours prior to doing the work. For all trimming, Provider shall use generally accepted
pruning standards of modern arboriculture in a manner which is least damaging to the health and
aesthetic appearance of the trees, etc., being trimmed.

                (c}     Restorarion. Provider promptly shall repair or replace, at its own expense,
any and all rights-of-way, pavements, sidewalks, street improvements, excavations, other
facilities, landscaping. utility lines, mains or pipes, or other improvements, whether public or
private, used, disturbed, or damaged by Provider's operations, including constmction, installation,
and maintenance thereof to the extent that such repair or replacement was necessitated by
installation or operation of the Cable System. Such repair or replacement shall retum the property
to as good or better condition as it was prior to the work being done and shall comply with all other
City ordinances. The cost associated with the return, replacement and/or restoration shall be borne
by Provider. The requirements imposed upon Provider extend to any subcontractor or independent
contractor that Provider might employ to perform the tasks outlined herein. If City detem1ines
Provider or its conh·actor has not made such restoration, reconstruction or repair in a reasonably
satisfactory manner, City, after giving Provider notice and opportunity to correct such failure, shall
have the right to cany out such restoration, reconstruction or repair, and Provider shall reimburse
City in full for all reasonable expenses incurred by City in effecting such restoration,
recoustmction or repair.

                (d)     Sa/etv. Provider shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failure and accidents
which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public. All structures and lines,
equipment, and connections in, over, under, and upon the Streets, shall at all times be kept and
maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition, and in good order and repair. Any opening or
obstruction in the streets shall be guarded and protected at all times by placement of adequate
barriers, fences, or boardings, the bounds of which will be clearly designated by warning lights.

                (e)     Compliance wirh Applicable Laws. Provider shall install and maintain its
wire, cables, fixtures, and other equipment (i) in accordance with all applicable laws, including,
without limitation, the City Code, any building codes or other constrnction standards imposed by
                                                   7
City, and the applicable sections of the National Electric Safety Code as revised during the Term,
and (ii) in such manner as shall not interfere with any installations of City or of any public utility
serving City.

                (f)     Annual Plan. On or before January 15~1 of each year, Provider shall submit
to City in writing Provider's proposed schedule {the "Annual Plan") with regard to any anticipated
construction, maintenance, tree-trimming or other similar activities (collectively, "Activities") on
Provider's then current facilities planned by Provider in or on any Street within the Service Area
for that calendar year. The Annual Plan will be used by City to coordinate Provider's Activities
with City's pending public works projects, constmction/ maintenance activities within the Service
Area planned by other utility franchisees, etc. in order to minimize disturbances to the citizenry
and to protect City's ·iofrastmcture investment. On or before Febmary 15 th of each year, City will
either approve Provider's Annual Plan or will supply to Provider any proposed revisions. Provider
then shall have ten business days to object to City i.n writing to any such proposed revisions to
Provider's Annual Plan. If Provider so objects, then City and Provider shall promptly, reasonably
cooperate to formulate a mutually-acceptable Annual Plan. Provider shall strictly adhere to the
finalized Annual Plan and shall not undertake any Activities within the Service Area not
contemplated by the finalized Annual Plan unless a legitimate, unforeseeable emergency situation
then exists or unless City gives written consent to such change.
                (g)     Temporarv Moving of Wires. Provider shall, on the request of City or any
Person holding a building-moving pem1it, franchise or other approval issued by City or the state
of Utah, temporarily relocate its facilities to permit the moving of buildings, water, effluent or
sewer lines, or Streets. The expense of such relocation shall be paid by the party requesting the
same, and Provider shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. Provider shall be
given not less than five business days' prior notice to arrange for such relocation.

               (h)      Inspection. City shall have the right to inspect all construction or installation
work concerning the Cable System performed in, over, under and upon the Streets, and make such
inspections and related orders as it shall find necessary to insure compliance with the tenns of this
Agreement. ln situations where the Cable System is being installed or modified i.n connection with
a construction project involving otl1er (non-Cable System) work by th.ird parties not affiliated with
Provider, to the extent possible (as determined by City in its reasonable judgment) City shall
endeavor to inspect and approve conforming work on the Cable System independent of its
inspection and approval of the other (non-Cable System) work by third parties in order to facilitate
final completion and approval of the Cable System work by or on behalf of Provider.

                (i)     Erection ofPoles.

                        (i)     The Franchise does not expressly or impliedly authorize Provider to
constrnct or install poles or wire-holding stmctures within Streets for the purpose ofplacing cables,
wires, lines or otherwise, without City's prior written consent. Such consent shall not unreasonably
be withheld, but shall include a requirement for Provider to perform at its expense all tree
trimming, etc., required to maintain the poles, cable and wires clear of obstmctions.

                         (ii)  With respect to any poles or wire-holding structmes which Provider
is authorized to constrnct and install within the Service Area, a public utility or public utility
district serving City (the "Public Utility") may, if denied by Provider the privilege ofutilizing such
pole or wire-holding structures, apply to City for such pennission. If City finds that such use by
                                                    8
the Public Utility would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly interfere with
Provider's present and future operations, City may authorize such use by the Public Utility subject
to such terms and conditions as may reasonably be agreed between the parties. Such authorization
shall include the condition that the Public Utility (A) pay to Provider any and all actual and
necessary costs incurred by Provider in permitting such use and, in addition, an annual fee per
attachment which is equal to that which Provider pays to the public electric service utility in the
Service Area for such use, and (B) shall indemnify Provider from and against any claims or causes
of action brought about due to such use. City's legal ability to provide such authorization is subject
to any applicable law to the contrary.

                U)      U11dergrounding.

                         (i)     Provider shall use its best efforts to construct, install and place its
cables, wires, drop lines and other facilities underground where other communication and utility
facilities are located underground. Amplifier boxes and pedestal mounted tem1inal boxes may be
placed aboveground if existing technology reasonably requires, but shall be of such size and design
and shall be so located as to minimize visual and physical impact on adjacent yards and landscapes
insofar as it is technically and economically feasible and not unsafe. However, all amplifier boxes,
pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and all other equipment placed abovegrotllld shall be kept in
good repair and replaced as needed. If Provider has used its best efforts to construct and install its
cables, wires, drop lies and other facilities underground, then in any part of the Service Area where
there are certain cables, wires and other Like facilities of a public utility or public utility district
suspended aboveground from poles, Provider may construct and install its cables, wires and other
facilities from the same poles subject to applicable standards and, subject to the provisions of
section 6(i) ("Erection of Poles"), may place additional poles as technically required.

                       (ii)    With respect to any cables, wires and other like facilities constrncted
and installed by Provider aboveground, Provider shall, at its sole expense, reconstruct and install
such cables, wires or other facilities underground pursuant to any project under section 6(k) below
under which the cables, wires or other like facilities of other utilities providers are placed
underground within an area. All construction, reconstruction and installation required under this
section shall be done at no cost to City unless otherwise provided by law.

                      (iii) [n cases of new construction or property development where utilities
are to be placed underground, the developer/property O\Vner shall give Provider reasonable notice
of such constrnction or development, and of the particular date on which open trenching will be
available for Provider's installation of conduit and/or cable. Provider shall also provide
specifications as needed for trenching. Costs of trenching and easements required to bring Cable
Service to the development shall be borne by the developer/property owner unless agreed to
otherwise between Provider and developer.

                (k)     Relocation.

                         (i)      If during the Term of the Franchise, City or a publicly-owned utility
(including without limitation, a public water district, a public sanitation district, a public drainage
district or any other similar special public district) elects to alter, repair, realign, abandon, improve,
vacate, reroute or change the grade of any Street or to replace, repair, install, maintain, or otherwise
alter any aboveground or 1mdergrotmd cable, wire, conduit, pipe, line, pole, wire-holding structme,
sttucture, or other facility utilized for the provision of utility or other services or transportation of
                                                     9
drainage, sewage or other liquids, Provider shall, ex.cept as provided in subsection 6(k)(ii) below
or as otherwise provided by law or by agreement with such publicly owned utility, at its sole
expense remove or relocate as necessary its installed poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and any other fac ilities.

                       (ii)    Provider will, upon reasonable notice from City, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect or relocate its property in the Street when required by City, Salt Lake
County or the state of Utah by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street closing or
abandonment, highway or street constrnction, change or establishment of street grade, or any other
types of stmctures or improvements. The requesting party shall bear the cost to the extent such
request for relocation or disconnection is for purely aesthetic purposes.

        Section 7.     Construction and Operation.

               (a)     Compliance. Provider shall construct, install and maintain the Cable System
in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, constrnction standards, governmental
requirements, and technical standards equivalent to those established by the FCC. All installation
and maintenance of electronic equipment shall be in accordance with the applicable sections of the
current edition of the National Electric Safety Code and all applicable Utah state and City codes,
iules and regulations.

                (b)     Maintenance o(Design Map. Provider shall maintain at all times a current
design map or set of design maps drawn to scale showing the Cable System and all equipment
installed or placed in the Streets and other public places. Such maps shall be made available for
inspection and study by City or its designated representative at Provider's place of business
promptly upon City's request from time to time.

              (c)     OSHA. All working facilities, conditions, and procedures, used or occurring
during constrnction and maintenance of the Cable System shall comply with the standards of the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.

                 (c)     Coordination. Construction, installation and maintenance of the Cable
 System shall be perfonned in an orderly and workmanlike manner, and in close coordination with
 public and private utilities serving City following accepted constmction procedUies and practices
 and working through existing committees and organizations. Provider will at all times fully comply
 with all City requests regarding its work within the Streets.

                  (d)     Antennae. Any antenna structure used in the Cable System shall comply
 with the City Code and with construction, marking and lighting of antenna structures required by
 the United States Department of Transportation. Provider shall obtain a use permit from City prior
 to the installation of any such antenna strncture.

                (e)     Interference. All cable and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel
 with electric and telephone lines, and multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel
 and bundled with due respect for engineering considerations. Any RF leakage shall be monitored
 as required by applicable FCC rules aud regulations. Provider will not intentionally interfere with
 television reception of Persons not served by Provider, nor will the Cable System interfere with,
 obstrnct or hinder in any manner, the operation of the various utilities serving the residents within
 the Service Area. Provider shall not interfere, obstrnct or hinder in any manner, City's
                                                  10
communications systems, water system, sewer system, fire department system, police department
system, public works systems or court system.

                (f)     Required Extensions of Service. The following provisions of this section
7(f) are applicable to the extent permitted by the Cable Act:

                        (i)   Provider shall provide Cable Service within seven days of a request
by any Person who resides in a Qualified Living Unit. A request shall be deemed made on the date
of signing a service agreement, Provider's receipt of ftmds or Provider's receipt of a verified verbal
or written request.
                       (ii)      No Subscriber shall be refused service arbitrarily.
                       (iii)  In the case of new constmction or property development where
utilities are to be placed undergrott11d, the developer or property owner shall give Provider
reasonable notice of not less than 30 days prior to such constmction or development, of the
particular date on which open trenching will be available for Provider's installation of conduit,
pedestals/or vaults, and laterals to be provided at Provider's expense. The developer/prope1ty
owner shall also provide specifications in coufonnance with City requirements as needed for
trenching. The developer/property owner may close the requisite trenches when:
                                 (A)     Provider bas placed the necessary conduit; or
                               (B)     Seven days after the developer/property owner has given a
second notice that the requisite trench bas been opened; or
                            (C)    Provider has waived its right to place its facilities under this
provision, whichever comes sooner.
                      (iv)  Costs of trenching and easements required to bring service to the
development shall be borne by the developer/property owner
               (g)     Multiple Dwelling Units. Provider shall not be required to make Cable
Service available to residents of an MDU project until a mutually acceptable agreement granting
Provider access to the MDU has been executed and delivered by Provider and the property owner.
         Section 8.     Customer Service. Provider shall comply at all times with the customer
 service provisions set forth in 47 C.F.R. Parts 76.309, 76. 1602 and 76.1603, as amended.

        Section 9.      Channels.

              (a)     Programming. Provider shaU use reasonable efforts to provide a minimum
 of200 channels. Provider shall provide broad categories of services, such as:

                        (i)      Educational programming;
                        (ii)     News and infonnation;
                        (iii)    Sports programming;
                        (iv)     General entertainment (including movies);
                        (v)      Children's programming:
                        (vi)     Family programming;
                        (vii)    Culture and performing arts;
                        (viii)   Science/documentary;
                                                    11
                       (ix)    Weather infomrntion;
                       (x)     Ethnic programming: and
                       (xi)    Governmental affairs.

Provider shall carry the signals of local broadcast stations in the Salt Lake City Metropolitan area
that have indicated to Provider their "must carry" designation as well as broadcast stations that
have executed "retransmission consent" agreements with Provider in accordance with FCC
regulations and federal law.

               (b)     Educational and Govemmental Channef(s) .

                       (i)    Upon at least 120 days' prior written notice (or such other notice
period as may be mutually acceptable to City and Provider), Provider shall make available, free of
charge by Provider, one channel to be used for educational and governmental cablecast
programming. When first-run programming on the first educational and governmental access
channel occupies at least 50% of the hours between 1 I :OO a.m. and 11:00 p.m. for any twelve
consecutive weeks, City may request the use of one additional chairnel, free ofcharge by Provider,
for the same purpose. The additional channel must maintain programming at least 25% of the hours
between 11 :00 a.m. and 11 :00 p.m. for twelve consecutive weeks. If that level of programming is
not maintained, the second chan11el will return to Provider for its use. Provider also reserves the
right to program designated educational and governmental channels during the hours not used by
City or other governmental entities.

                        (ii)     If progranuning time is not used by City and is available for sharing,
the channels may be sllared with other municipalities receiving programming from the common
head end receive site location. City shall indemnify, save and hold harmless Provider from and
against any liability resulting from City's use of the aforementioned educational and govemmental
channels, except for liability resulting from program time shared with other municipalities.
Provider shall not be required to provide any chaunel capacity beyond that provided by any other
cable television provider holding a franchise in the Service Area. Eacll user of the educational and
governmental channel(s) shall be responsible for its operation and pay its own costs of operation
and programming. Provider may assess reasonable charges for any technical or other support
(other than channel time) when such support is requested in writing by the user.

                     (iii) No new Provider shall be required to provide a greater number of
educational and governmental channels than an incumbent Provider.
                (c)     Capital Contribution.

                        (i)    At any time during the Tenn, City may require that Provider
prospectively provide a "Capital Contribution" during the remainder of the Term, to be used
specifically for educational and governmental access. City shall give Provider at least 90 days'
prior written notice of any required Capital Contribution. The amount of the Capital Contribution
payable by Provider to City shall not exceed ten cents ($. l 0) per month, per Subscriber, to be
remitted annually no later than 45 days after the end of the calendar year. All amounts paid as a
Capital Contribution may be separately stated on Subscribers' bills as permitted in 47 C.F.R.
76.985.

                      (ii)     The Capital Contribution will be payable by Provider to City after:
(A) the approval of City, if required, to the inclusion of the Capital Contribution on Subscribers'

                                                  12
bills, including any required approval pursuant to 47 C.F.R. 76.933; (B) notice to Provider's
Subscribers of the inclusion; and (C) tbe collection of the Capital Contribution by Provider from
its Subscribers. Any Capital Contribution is not to be considered in the calculation of Franchise
Fee pursuant to this Franchise.

                       (iii) Provider shall never be required to pay a different monthly amount
per Subscriber than is being collected from any other cable television provider in the Service Area
as a Capital Contribution.

               (d)     PEG Channels. Provider may make all PEG channels available on a mosaic
display.
       Section 10.     Conduct of Operations.

               (a)     Efflcie111 Service. Provider will render efficient Cable Service, make repairs
promptly, and interrupt Cable Service only for good cause aud for the shortest time possible.
Provider will use reasonable efforts to assure that sucb intem1ptions will occur during periods of
minimum system use.

            (b)   FCC Regulations. Provider shall comply with all applicable Federal
Conummications Commission mies and regulations, both present and future.

       Section 11.     Indemnification.

              (a)    Exculpation. City shall in no way be liable or responsible for any loss or
damage to property or any i1tjury to, or death of, any person that may occur in the constmction,
operation or maintenance by Provider of its Cable System.

                (b)     !11dem11i[ication bv Provider. Provider shall indemnify, hold harmless and
defend City and its officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims, demands,
suits, actions, causes of action, costs, liens, liabilities, injuries fees and damages of whatsoever
kind resulting directly or indirectly from, or arising out of:

                       (i)     The construction, operation or maintenance by Provider of the Cable
System;

                      (ii)    Any acts or omissions of or by Provider, its agents, representatives,
officers, employees, contractors or subcontractors in connection with Provider's use of the Streets
and other public places within the Service Area;

                       (iii) Provider's failure to inspect, discover, correct or otherwise address
any defect, dangerous condition or other condition created by or resulting from Provider's Cable
System and use of tl1e Streets within the Service Area;

                       (iv)    Provider's failure to comply with any stnhite, rule, regulation or
ordinance of the United States, the state of Utah, City or any other governmental entity with
jurisdiction over Provider; or

                       (v)     Provider's alleged invasion of the right of privacy, defamation of

                                                  13
any person, fim1 or corporation, or the violation or infringement of any copyright, trade mark,
trade name, service mark or patent, or of any other right of any person, firm or corporation.

Provider's duty to defend and indemnify City under this Agreement includes reasonable attorney's
fees, litigation and court costs and expert witness fees.

               (c)     Limitation. Notwithstanding Section ll(a) or any provision hereof to the
contra1y, Provider shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold City harmless to the extent
any claim, demand, suit, cost, lien, liability, injury or damage arises out of or in connection with
any negligent or willful act or failure to act of City or any of its officers, agents or employees.

       Section 12.     Insurnnce.

               (a)     General Requirements for all Policies.

                       (i)     Any insmance coverage required herein that is written on a "claims
made" form rather than on an "occurrence" fonu shall (A) provide full prior acts coverage or have
a retroactive date before the effective da.te of this Ordinance, and (B) be maintained for a period
of at least three years following the end of the Tem1 of the Franchise or contain a comparable
"extended discovery" clause. Evidence of current extended discovery coverage and the purchase
options available upon policy termination shall be provided to City.

                       (ii)    All policies of insurance shall be issued by insurance companies
licensed to do business in the state of Utah and either:

               l.A. Currently rated A- or better by A.M. Best Company: and
               l .B. For constrnction contracts only, the insurer must also have an A.M.
        Best Company financial size category rating of not less than VII.

                                          -OR-

               2.    Listed in the United States Treasury Department's current Listing
        of Approved Sureties (Department Circular 570), as amended.

                       (iii) Provider shall furnish evidence of insmance, acceptable to City,
verifying compliance with the insurance requirements herei.n prior to Provider's written acceptance
of the Franchise and this Ordinance.

                        (iv)    If any work to be performed by Provider is subcontracted, Provider
shall require its contractor to secure and maintain all minimum insurance coverages required of
Provider hereunder. No failure by such contractor to secure and maintain such insurance coverage
shall excuse Provider from the obligation to assure such coverage and to otherwise fully comply
with th.is section 12.

                          (v)    Provider 's insmance policies shall be primary and non-contributory
to any other coverage available to City. The workers' compensation, general liability and auto
liability policies to be provided by Provider shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor
of City.

                                                 14
                        (vi)    If Utah's governmental immunity limits are subsequently altered by
legislation, administrative rule change or judicial opinion, Provider shall provide a new certificate
of insurance within 30 days after such change, certifying coverage in compliance with the modified
limits or, if no new limits are specified, in an amount acceptable to City.

                      (vii) All required policies shall provide that the insurance coverage
thereunder shall not be canceled or modified without providing at least 30 days' prior written
notice to City.
                        (viii) If Provider fails to obtain and keep in force any insurance policies
as required herein, City shall have the right at its sole discretion to obtain such coverage and charge
Provider for the costs of said insurance.

              (b)    Required Insurance Policies. Provider, at its own cost, shall secure and
maintain during the entire Tenn of the Fmnchise, including any and all renewal terms, the
following minimum insurance coverage:

                       (i)     Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance as
required by the state of Utah, and employer's liability coverage in the amount oUl,000,000 per
loss. Proof of workers' compensation coverage is required unless a waiver of coverage is allowed
and acquired pursuant to Utah law. This requirement includes contractors who are doing business
as an individual and/or as a sole proprietor, as well as corporations, limited liability companies,
parh1erships and other business entities, If any work is subcontracted, Provider shall require its
contractor(s) similarly to provide workers' compensation insurance for all of the contractor's
employees unless a waiver of coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to Utah law.

                       (ii)    Commercial general liability insurance, on an occtmence form,
naming City and its officer, agents and employees as additional insureds, in the minimum amount
of $2,000,000 per occurrence with a $3,000,000 general policy aggregate and a $2,000,000
products completed operations policy aggregate. The policy shall protect City (and its related
parties specified above), Provider, and any contractor from claims for damages for personal injury,
including accidental death, and from claims for property damage that may arise from Provider's
operations lUlder the Franchise, whether perfonned by Provider itself, any contractor, or anyone
directly or indirectly employed or engaged by either of them. Such insurance shall provide
coverage for premises operations, acts of independent contractors, and completed operations. The
policy shall be primary and not contributing to any other policy or coverage available to City
whether such coverage be primary, contributing or excess.

                      (iii) Conunercial automobile liability insurance that provides coverage
for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles, in the minimmn amotmt of$ l,OOO,OOO per person,
$2,000,000 per accident, $500,000 per occurrence for property damage, or a single combined Lim.it
of $2,000,000.

                       (iv) From time to time, upon at least three months' prior written notice
to Provider, City may reasonably increase the amounts of insurance coverage required in this
Section 12 to address the effects of intervening inflation or final judgments in pertinent litigation.

        Section 13.     Unauthorized Connectious or Modifications.


                                                   15
               (a)     No Unawho1'i=ed Use. It is unlawfol for any Person to make any connection,
extension, or division whether physically, acoustically, inductively, electronically, or otherwise
with or to any segment of the Cable System for any purpose whatsoever, without Provider's
express consent.

              (b)    No Tampering. It is unlawful for any Person to willfully interfere, tamper,
remove, obstrnct or damage any part, segment or content of the Cable System for any purpose
whatsoever.

               (c)     Dabilitv for Violation. Any Person convicted of a violation of this section
will be subject to the maximum penalty allowed by federal, state and local law. City agrees to
cooperate with Provider in the prosecution of any such violations.

       Section 14.     Franchise Fee. For the use of the Streets and for the purposes of providing
revenue with which to defray the costs of regulation arising out of the granting of this Franchise,
Provider shall pay a franchise fee in the amount prescribed by this section.

               (a)     Amount. During the Tenn of the Franchise, Provider shall pay City an
amount equal to five percent (5%) of Provider's Gross Revenues (the "Franchise Fee"). The
percentage amount of Provider's Franchise Fee shall not exceed the percentage amount of the
franchise fee paid to City by any other cable provider franchisee.

              (b)      Timing: Cer1ificatio11. The Franchise Fee shall be paid to City quarterly
within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The amount payable shall be equal to five
percent (5%) of Provider's Gross Revenues for the ca1lendar quarter immediately preceding each
such payment date. Not later than the date of each payment, Provider shall file with City a written
statement signed by an officer of Provider, or his/her designee, attesting to the accuracy,
completeness and veracity of the statement, and which identifies in detail the sources and amounts
of Gross Revenues received by Provider during the period for which the payment is made.

               (c)    No Accord. No acceptance or any payment shall be constmed as an accord
that the amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment be
constmed as a release of any claim which City may have for further or additional sums payable
under the provisions of this section.

               (d)      External Costs. City acknowledges that all Franchise Fees paid to City will
be collected from Subscribers as "external costs" as such tenn is used in 4 7 C.F .R. 76.922, and
will be separately stated on Subscribers' bills as permitted in 47 C.F.R. 76.985.


                (e)      Basis for Pavments. Provider acknowledges that this Franchise provides
Provider with the use of valuable public Streets acquired aud maintained by City at great expense
to its taxpayers and citizens, and in recognition thereof that the grant to Provider of the use of those
Streets is a valuable privilege, and that such payments are made as a matter of contract. Should
either federal or state law ever be amended to discontinue altogether City's authority to assess the
Franchise Fee, then so long as Provider maintains facilities in the Streets, City is entitled to collect
from Provider reasonable and non-discriminatory payments for use of the Streets. Such payments
shall be comparable to those fees paid by other providers of services similar to those provided by
Provider within the Service Area.

                                                  16
               (f)     Delinquencies. Any Franchise Fee which remc1ins unpaid after the dates
specified c1bove shall be delinquent c1nd shall therec1fier accrne interest at ten percent (10%) per
annum until paid. The period for limitation for recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder
shall be subject to applicable Utah state law.
               (g)     Accounting Standards. Within 45 days after City's written request at any
time or from time to time based on City's reasonable belief that any prior-remitted Franchise Fee
pc1yn1ents were inaccurate, Provider shall provide to City an unqualified written certification of the
accuracy of the Franchise Fee payments remitted for the preceding fiscal year(s) of the Tenn. This
certification must be prepared by an independent certified public acc0tmtant and prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
               (h)     Auditing and Financial Records.
                         (i)     During the Tenn of the Franchise, City may, not more frequently
than once each year, conduct an audit of the books, records and accounts of Provider for the
purpose of determining whether ProYider has paid Franchise Fees in the required amounts. The
audit may be conducted by City or its designated agent, and shall be conducted at the sole expense
of City llllless the audit discloses a shortfall of four percent (4%) or more of the annual Franchise
Fee, in which case Provider promptly shall reimburse City for all cost of the audit. The party
conducting the audit shall prepare a written report containing its findings, and the report shall be
filed with City and a copy mailed to Provider.

                       (ii)    Provider shall make available for inspection by authorized
representatives of City its books, accounts, and all other financial records at reasonable times and
upon reasonable advance notice for the purpose of permitting exercise of the autliorities conferred
by this section. Provider shall not be required to provide Subscriber iufonnation in violation of
Section 631 ("Protection of Subscriber Privacy") of the Cable Act or any other applicable law.

                 (i)     Other Taxes. Etc. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Provider
shall, in addition to the Franchise Fee, pay the required charges, taxes and fees lawfully established
in a code or ordinance properly adopted by City. Provider shall be entitled to pass such charges,
taxes and fees directly to its Subscribers in the Service Area.

                 G)      Basic Cable Outlet for Public Buildings. Provider shall provide, without
 charge, one outlet (including one set top box) of basic or expanded basic service to each
 governmental building in the Service Area owned and/or occupied by City or its public or private
 municipal service contract providers (including, but not limited to, fire stations, police substations,
 and public and non-profit private school buildings) that is a Qualified Living Unit so long as the
 location is not simultaneously receiving service, without compensation, from another franchised
 cable service provider. The government building may redistribute the signal within that builcting
 by adding additional outlets aud additional set top boxes at City's own cost without compensation
 to Provider; provided, however, that no material degradation in signal quality/service to Provider's
 subscribers results from such complimentary service to City. The outlets of basic and expanded
 basic service shall not be used to sell Cable Services in or throughout such buildings: nor shall
 such outlets be located in common or public areas generally open to the public. Provider shall have
 the right to secure any and all of its signals to ensure compliance with this provision and to ensure
 complic1nce with its contractual agreements with its programming suppliers. ff additional outlets
 are provided to such buildings, the building owner may also be required to pay the service fees,
  installation charges and set top boxes associated with the provision of all service(s) provided for
                                                   17
the additional outlets relating thereto. Users of such outlets shall hold Provider harmless from any
and all liability or claims arising out of their use of such outlets, including but not limited to those
arising from copyright liability.

City acknowledges that complimentary services reflects a voluntary initiative by Provider, and that
Provider does not waive any rights it may have regarding complimentary services w1der federal
law. Subject to applicable law. Provider shall give City at least 90 days' prior written notice if
Provider elects to offset the cost of complimentary services to City hereunder against the Franchise
Fee.

        Section 15. Rates. All orProvider's rates and charges shall be publisl1ed (in the fonn of
a publicly-available rate card) in accordance with applicable state and federal law, and shall be
nondiscriminatory as to all persons and organizations of similar classes, under similar
circumstances and conditions. Provider shall apply its rates in accordance with governing law,
with similar rates and charges for all Subscribers receiving similar cable service, without regard to
race, color, fami lial, etlmic or national origin, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital,
military or economic status, or physical or mental disability. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, nothing herein shall be constrned to prohibit Provider from:

              (a)     Promotions. The temporary reduction or waiving of rates or charges in
conjunction with valid promotional campaigns;

              (b)    Discounts. The offering of reasonable discounts to senior citizens or
economically disadvantaged citizens;

               (c)  Commercial Rates. The establishment of different and nondiscriminatory
rates and charges and classes of serv ice for commercial customers, as well as different
nondiscriminatory monthly rates for classes of commercial customers as allowable by federal law
and regulations; or

               (d)     Residential Rates. The establishment of different and nondiscriminatory
rates and charges for residential Subscribers as allowable by federal law and regulations.

        Section 16.     Records and Reports.

               (a)     Regulato111 Records. Copies of all petitions, applications, conununications,
and reports submitted by Provider to the FCC or any other federal or state regulatory co1mn.ission
or agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting constrnction or operation of the
Cable System or services provided th.rough such system shall be made available to City upon
reasonable request. Copies of responses or any other conmrnnications from the regulatory agencies
to Provider affecting constmction or operation of the Cable System likewise shall be made
avai lable upon reasonable reqnest.

               (b)     Inspection Right. In addition to City's right to audit the accuracy of the
Franchise Fee payments w1der section 14(h), above, City shall have the right, at its own expense,
not more than once during any calendar year, and upon at least 30 days' prior written notice, to
inspect at Provider's offices during nom1al business hours, all books and records directly related
to the Franchise to ensure compliance with the terms of this Ordinance. To the extent such
infonnation is protected by state or federal law, City will not disclose to the public or to
                                                   18
competitors of Provider any commercial or financial infonnation reviewed by City pursuant to this
Ordinance. If any books or records of Provider are not kept in a local office and if City detem1ines
that an examination of such records is necessary or appropriate for the performance of any of City's
duties, administration or enforcement of this ordinance, then all reasonable travel and related
expenses incurred in making such examination shall be paid by Provider.

                (c)    Annual Report. Within 20 days after City's written request from time to
time during the Term, Provider shall provide City with an annual report of its operations of the
Cable System in the Service Area, including the number of Subscribers, the anticipated
constmction and maintenance of its facilities and its general plans to increase availability in the
following year. Provider shall not be required to disclose any protected or confidential infonnation
as part of this annual report. Provider also shall meet with City from time to tin1e upon City's
request following at least 15 days' prior written request to Provider. Matters to be discussed may
include, without limitation, customer service, system performance, technical issues and other
matters related to Provider's operation of the Cable System.

       Section l 7. Franchise Renewal. Any renewal of the Franchise shall be in accordance
with the renewal provisions of the Cable Act under Section 626 or as otherwise codified at the
time of the renewal and any relevant provisions of the City Code, as amended; provided that at
any time City and Provider may initiate and frnalize informal negotiations regarding renewal of
the Franchise and City may grant such renewal, conditioned on all appropriate prior public notice
and opportunity to comment.

        Section 18. Transfer of Franchise. Provider shall not transfer the Franchise to another
party, person, or entity except to a company controlling, controlled by or under common control
with Provider, without complying with the provisions of the Cable Act. Further:

                ( a)    Citv Consent Required. Without City's prior written consent, which shall
not be unreasonably withheld, the Franchise shall not be sold, assigned or transferred, either in
whole or in part, or leased, sublet, or mortgaged in any manner, nor shall title thereto (either legal
or equitable) or any right, interest or property therein, pass to or vest in any person except to an
entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with Provider.

                (b)     Exc/11sio11 for Mortgages. No such consent shall be required for a transfer
in trust, mortgage, or other hypothecation in whole or in part to secure an indebtedness reasonably
incurred by Provider in the ordinary course of its business.

               (c)     Assignee OuaJifications. The proposed assignee must show technical
ability, financial capability, legal qualifications and general qualifications as reasonably
determined by City and must agree to comply with all provisions of the Franchise and such
conditions as may be prescribed by the Council expressed by resolution. Within 30 days after
receiving the request or notice of transfer, City shaU, in accordance with FCC Rules and
Regulations, notify Provider in writing of the infonnation it requires to dete1mine the legal,
financial and technical qualifications of the proposed transferee. If City has not taken action on
Provider's request for transfer within 120 days after receiving such request, consent by City shall
be deemed given.

              (d)      Changes in Control. Provider shall promptly notify City of any actual or
 proposed change in, or transfer of, or acquisition by any other party of, control of Provider unless
                                                  19
such other party already is an affiliate which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control
with, Provider. The word "control" as used herein is not limited to major stockholders but includes
actual working control in whatever manner. Every change, transfer, or acquisition of control of
Provider shall make the Franchise subject to cancellation unless and until City shall have consented
thereto, which consent will not be unreasonably witliheld. For the purpose of determining whether
it shall consent to such change, h·ansfer or acquisition or control, City may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective controlling party and Provider shall assist City in any such
mqu1ry.

                (e)    Reb1111able Presrtmption of Change in C'ontrof. A rebuttable presumption
that a transfer of control has occurred shall arise upon the acquisition or accumulation by any
person or group of persons of fifty (50%) percent of the voting interest of Provider.

                (f)     No Waiver. The consent or approval of City to any transfer of the Franchise
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rigbts of City in and to the streets, and any h·ansfer
shall by its tem1s, be expressly subordinate to the tenns and conditions of the Franchise.

               (g)     Asswnp1io11 Agreement. In no event shall a transfer of ownership or control
be approved without Provider's successor-in-interest becoming a signatory to an agreement further
evidencing the effect and binding nature of this Ordinance.

        Section 19.     Franchise Violations.

                (a)     Enforcement Procedure. If City deten11ines that Provider has violated any
provision of the Franchise, City may make a written demand on Provider to remedy such violation.
If the violation is not remedied, or in the process of being remedied, to City's reasonable
satisfaction within 30 days following such written demand, an infonnal meeting or administrative
hearing shall be held to review the alleged violation. If such meeting or hearing does not result in
a satisfactory resolution, and/or if Provider requests a public heariug, then a public hearing shall
be held and Provider shall be provided with an opporttmity to be heard upon 30 days' prior written
notice to Provider of the time and the place of the hearing and the allegations of Franchise
violations.

                       (i)    Any hearing may be conducted hy the Council or, at the Council's
sole discretion, by a hearing officer appointed by the Council. Any such hearing officer shall be
an attomey Iicensed to practice under Utah law.

                        (ii)    City shall bear the cost of providing a place for the hearing and
 compensation for the hearing officer. The costs incurred by the parties for attorney's fees, expe11
 witness fees and other expenses shall be borne solely by the party incurring those costs. The cost
 of any reporter retained to record the proceeding shall be born equally by City and Provider.

                       (iii) Al I witnesses testifying at any hearing held pursuant to this section
 shall be sworn witnesses and shall be subject to direct and cross-examination. However, formal
 mies of evidence applicable to the trial of civil and criminal proceedings in the trial conrts of the
 state of Utah shall not be applicable to the hearing. The provisions of the Administrative
 Procedures Act (UTAH CODE ANN. § 63-46b-l, et. seq., as amended}, or any successor legislative
 enactment, shall not be applicable to any such hearing. The hearing may be continued from time
 to time.
                                                   20
                         (iv) If the hearing is conducted by a bearing officer, the officer shall,
upon conclusion of the hearing, prepare a recommended decision which includes findings of fact
and conclusions. The recommended decision shall be filed with City's recorder and mailed to the
parties not later than thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing. Upon receipt of
such a recommended decision, the Council may, without a hearing ex.cept as otherwise required
below, either:

                             (A)    Adopt the recommended decision, including findings of fact
and conclusions submitted by the hearing officer;

                           (B)    Adopt the findings of fact and conclusions contained in the
recommended decision, modify the decision, and adopt the recommended decision as so revised;

                               (C)    Based upon the record of the hearing, modify the findings of
fact, conclusions or decisions and adopt the recommended decision as so revised; or

                                 (D}    Reject the recommended decision and conduct a new
hearing.

                      (v)      If the hearing is conducted by the Council, following conclusion of
the hearing the Council shall adopt a decision which includes findings of fact and conclusions.

               (b)    Remedies. If, after notice is given and any required public hearing is held,
City detennines that such violation occurred or still ex.ists, then City may impose a remedy,
including, without limitation:

                          (i}    Making the correction itself, and charging the cost to Provider;

                          (ii}   Commencing an action at law for monetary damages or seeking
other equitable relief;

                       (iii} Requiring the filing of a financial performance instrument by
Provider to insure future perfomrnnce; or

                       (iv}   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of the
Franchise, declare the Franchise terminated.

               (c)     Council Resolutio11. If the Council detem1ines that there are grounds for
termination of the Franchise and that the Franchise should be terminated, the Council may adopt
a resolution which terminates the Franchise and includes its findings and decisions. The effective
date of termination shall be such date as is prescribed by the Council, in its sole discretion, in the
resolution. Any such tennioation shall be subject to applicable law.

                (d}    Limiration on Termination. Provider shall not be held in default under or in
non-compliance with the provisions of the Franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty
relating thereto, for any such non-compliance or alleged defaults that are caused by war, civil
disturbance, strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably beyond its ability to
control.
                                               21
                (e)    Revenue Report Following Termination. If this Franchise is terminated,
forfeited or voided as provided in this Ordinance or any order or decree by a court of competent
jurisdiction, Provider shall, not later than 30 days following the termination of the Franchise,
submit to City a report prepared as before required showing the Gross Revenue of Provider for the
time elapsed since the last period for which Provider has paid the Franchise Fee. With the
submission of the report, Provider shall pay to City the unpaid balance of the Franchise Fee due
and owing to City.

               (f)     Alternative Remedies.

                        (i)     No provision of this Ordinance shall be deemed to bar the right of
City to seek or obtain judicial relief from a violation of any provision of the Franchise or any rule,
regulation, requirement or directive promulgated thereunder. Neither the existence of other
remedies identified in this Ordinance nor the exercise thereof shall be deemed to bar or otherwise
limit the right of City to recover monetary damages for such violation by Provider, or judicial
enforcement of Provider's obligations by means of specific perfom1ance, injunctive relief or
mandate, or any other judicial remedy at law or in equity.

                       (ii)   No provision of this Ordinance shall be deemed to bar any rights
Provider may have under law (including, without limitation, the Cable Act) or the right to seek
appropriate judicial review of any decision by the Council concerning the Franchise.

              (g)    Non-enforcement. Provider shall not be relieved ofany obligation to comply
with any of the provisions of the Franchise or of any rule, regulation, requirement or directive
promulgated thereunder by reason of any failure of City to enforce prompt compliance.

       Section 20.     Removal of Cable Svstem Equipment and Facilities.

               (a)     Underground Cable and Conduit.

                        (i)      Upon expiration or termination of the Franchise, if the Franchise is
not renewed and if an assignee does not purchase the Cable System and become the substitute
franchisee under the Franchise, Provider may remove any undergrouud cable that is part of the
Cable System from the Streets which has been installed in such a manner that it can be removed
without trenching or other opening of the Streets along the extension of cable to be removed.
Provider shall not remove any underground cable or conduit which requires tr.enching or other
opening of the Streets along the e1dension of cable to be removed, except as hereinafter provided.
Subject to federal law, Provider shall remove, at its sole cost and expense, any underground cable
or conduit by trenching or opening of the streets along the extension thereof or otherwise which is
ordered to be removed by City based upon a detennination, in City's reasonable discretion, that
removal is required in order to eliminate or prevent a hazardous condition or promote futttre
utilization of the Streets for public purposes.
                      (ii)     Any order by City to remove cable or conduit shall be mailed to
Provider not later than 90 calendar days following the date of expiration or termination of the
Franchise. Provider shall file written notice with City's recorder not later than 30 calendar days
following the date of e)(piration or te1mination of the Franchise of its intention to remove cable
and a schedule for removal by location. The schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to
City's approval and regulation. Any such removal shall be completed no later than one year
                                                22
following the date of expiration or termination of the Franchise. Underground cable and conduit
in the Streets which is not so removed shall be deemed abandoned and title thereto shall vest in
City.
               (b)     Aboveground Elements. Subject to federal law or unless relieved of the
obligation by City, upon expiration or tem1ination of the Franchise, if the Franchise is not renewed
and if an assignee does not purchase the System and become the substit11te franchisee under the
Franchise, Provider shall at its sole expense remove from the Streets all above•ground elements of
the Cable System, including but not limited to amplifier boxes, pedestal mounted terminal boxes,
and cable attached to or suspended from poles.
               (c)    Legal Compliance. Provider shall conduct and complete the work of
removal in compliance with all such applicable ordinances, and shall restore the streets to equal to
or better condition as before the work of removal commenced. In connection with such work,
Provider shall apply fo r and obtain such encroachment pennits, licenses, authorizations or other
approvals and pay such fees and deposit such security as required by applicable City ordinances.
               (d)     Rep11rposi11g. This section 20 does not require removal of any facilities of
the Cable System which are being used for another authorized purpose (such as internet or phone)
by Provider or an assignee following expiration or termination of the Franchise.
        Section 21.    Miscellaneous.

                (a)     Force Maieure. Witb respect to any prov1s1on of this Ordinance, the
violation or noncompliance with which could result in the imposition of a financial penalty,
forfeiture or other sanction upon Provider, such violation or noncompliance shall be excused where
such violation or noncompliance is the result of Acts of God, war, civil disturbance, strike, or other
events, the occurrence of which was not reasonably foreseeable by Provider and is beyond
Provider's reasonable control.

               (b)     Severabilitv. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision of this
Ordinance, is for any reason detennined to be or rendered illegal, invalid, or superseded by other
lawful authority (including any state or federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority
having jurisdiction thereof) or detennined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
provision, to the extent that the essential terms of this Ordinance remain tmaffected and such
detem1ination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term
or provision hereof, all of which will remain in full force and effect for the tem1 of the Franchise
or any renewal(s) thereof.

                (c)     No Waiver or Estoppef.

                        (i)     Neither City nor Provider shall be excused from complying with any
 of the terms and conditions of the Franchise by any failure of the other, upon any one or more
 occasions, to insist upon or to seek compliance with any such tenns and conditions.

                         (ii)    City acknowledges that acceptance of the tenns and conditions of
 the Franchise wi ll not constitute, or be deemed to constitute, a waiver, either expressed or implied,
 by Provider of any constitutional or legal right which Provider may have or may be subsequently
 detennined to have, either by current or subsequent legislation or court decisions. City

                                                  23
acknowledges that Provider hereby reserves its rights under applicable federal and state
constitutions and law.

              (d)     Governing Law. This Ordinance shall be governed by the laws of the state
of Utah and any applicable federal laws.

              (e)    Waiver o(Ju11• Trial. Each party hereby irrevocably waives all dghts to
trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to the
Franchise, any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether verbal or written)
or actions of either of the parties or their agents, employees, or other related parties. Each
party acknowledges that this waiver has beeu freely and voluutarily made after full
opportunity to discuss such waiver with its counsel.

               (f)     Notices. All notices or correspondence to be served upon City or Provider
by the other party shall be in writing and delivered by first class mail, postage prepaid or by
facsimile or by a national express mail service.

               Notices or correspondence to City shall be addressed as follows:

                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                                     Attention: City Manager
                                     2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                                     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

               With a copy to:       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                                     Attention: City Attorney
                                     2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                                     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

               Notices or correspondence to Provider shall be addressed as follows:

                                      Comcast of Utah II, Inc.
                                      Attn: Government Affairs
                                      9602 South 300 West
                                      Sandy, UT 84070

               With a copy to:        Comcast Cable Coamnmications, LLC
                                      Attn: Regulatory Law Department
                                      One Comcast Center
                                      35 th Floor
                                      Philadelphia, PA 19103

City or Provider may designate other notice address(es) from time to time by giving written notice
to the other as set forth above.

               (g)     Action ofOfficers. All actions of City's officers, agents and employees that
 are in confonnity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or after the
 adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confinned and approved.
                (b)    Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict witb. this Ordinance
                                              24
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
       This Ordinance, assigned no. 467, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City's
Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED th.is 191h day of May 2026.


ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



By: _ _ _ __ _ __ __                           By:
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         -=---=---==-----=-----------
                                                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                               VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion         Yea _ Nay_
                                               Matt Holton              Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland           Yea_Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell          Yea_Nay _
                                               Ellen Birrell            Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED io the Recorder's office this 19 th day of May 2026.

       POSTED this _ day of May 2026.




                                                  25
                            7.5
                   Resolution 2026-31
    By this resolution the council will approve an agreement
with whereunder the named provider will provide design and
 advertising services for Phase I of the city's Bengal Blvd.
       pedestrian trail as provided in the agreement.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION No. 2026-3 I

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH H.W. LOCHNER, INC.
           FOR DESIGN SERVICES FOR BENGAL BLVD. PEDESTRIAN TRAIL

       WHEREAS, the city council (the "C'o1111ciI") of the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City")
met in regular session on 19 May 2026 to consider, among other things, approving a consulting
agreement (the "Agreement") with H.W. Lochner, Inc. ("Provider") whereunder Provider would
provide design and advertising services for City's Bengal Blvd. pedestrian trail within City's
boundaries, and perfom1 related work, in accordance with applicable standards and the tenns and
conditions of the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form oftbe Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to approve City's entry into the
Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that City's mayor and recorder are authorized and
directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-31, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 19 May 2026.


ATTEST:                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                       By:
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -
                                                  Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                            VOTlNG:

                                            Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                            Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay _
                                            Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay _
                                            Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                            Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 19th day of May 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of May 2026.
Docusign Envelope ID: 21 67CO85-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D54SF5




                                       Agreen1ent for Consulting Services
                                         (Bengal Blvd. Pedestrian Trail, Phase 1-
                                         100% Design and Advertising Documents)

                     THIS AGREEMENT FOR CONSULTING SERVICES {this "Agreement" ) is made
             effective 19 May 2026 by COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality wbose address is
             2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"), and by H.W. LOCHNER,
             INC., a Wisconsin corporation wbose address is 3995 South 700 East, Salt Lake City, UT 84 107
             ("Co11sultant"). In this Agreement, City and Consultant are each a "party" and collectively are
             the "parties ."



                    A.      City desires to obtain from a qualified expert design services concerning City's
             Bengal Blvd. pedestrian trail project. and to perfom1 related services, all in accordance with
             applicable standards and attached Exhibit A.

                      B.       Consultant regularly provides sucb consulting services.

                      C.     By this Agreement, City desires to retain Consultant, and Consultant desires to be
              retained by City, to perfom1 the subject consul ting services on the ternis and conditions specified
              herein.

                      D.      City and Consultant intend to identify herein the consulting services to be
              perfonned for City by Consultant, the basis of compensation for such services, and to otherwise
              set forth their entire agreement concerning the subject services. Consequently, this Agreement
              shall supercede any and all prior or contemporaneous negotiations and/or agreements, oral and/or
              written, between the parties concerning the services to be provided under this Agreement.

                                                          AGREEMENT:

                      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
              tU1dertakings of the parties bereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
              sufficiency of which is hereby aclmowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

                     Section l.    Scope of Services. Consultant shall provide the services (collectively, the
              "Sen•ices") to City that are described in attached Exhibit " A'' ("fa-hibit A") as reasonably
              directed by City for the purpose of developing the design and related infom1ation outlined in
              Exhibit A (the "Plan") as contemplated by all applicable legal requirements and best practices.

              The entire scope of the proposed Services is described in Exhibit A, provided that City freely
              may stop Consultant's work at any stage of the Services if City detennines that adequate
              infonnation has been obtained or that such stoppage is warranted for any reason. In such event,
              and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Consultant shall be entitled only
              to compensation due for Services rendered through the effective date of such te1mination and
              shall bave no claim for any other payments or damages, all as explained more specifically below.

               Subject to the foregoing, the Services shall include the fol lowing:
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167COB5-D6E4-8366-B380-B744F9D54BF5




                            (a)    Phases. The Services shall be divided into the phases, steps and work
             described in Exhibit A.

                            (b)     Public Meetings. Consultant shall attend such public meetings concerning
             the Services as City reasonably may direct. City shall schedule and advertise all public meetings
             or hearings. City may request Consultant to make a presentation concerning the Services and the
             Plan at one or more public meetings to receive public input and direction from City. All
             reasonable and final adjustments to the resulting Plan as directed by City will be made by
             Consultant prior to its final adoption/approval by City.

                            (c)     Schedule. It is anticipated that the final Plan will be completed so that the
             project will advertise for bids during Summer 2026 with completion of construction by 30 June
             2027. Consultant shall comply with such perfonnance schedule for the component Services as
             City reasonably may direct upon reasonable prior notice to Consultant.

                            (d)     Deliverables. Consultant shall provide all deliverables identified in
             Exhibit A, as well as such other docwuentation and deliverables as City reasonably may request.

                            (e)     Other Services. Consultant shall perfonn all other services and work as
             specified in Exhibit A, or as may be mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.

             If Consultant believes that any of the aforementioned services merit payment of any additional
             fee beyond the Fee (defined below), then Consultant shall so infom1 City in advance before
             undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and
             the not to exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Consultant to proceed with any such
             additional services, City shall so inform Consultant in writing. Consultant may not perform any
             additional services, or seek compensation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

                     Section 2.      Performance of Services. Except as otherwise provided in this
             Agreement, Consultant shall furnish all supervision, personnel, labor, materials, supplies and
             shall obtain all licenses and permits required for performance of the Services. The Services shall
             be performed at Consultant's offices and other mutually-agreeable places.

                      Section 3.    Compensation; Invoices; Remittance. For satisfactory performance, City
              sliall pay to Consultant the maximum amount of $151,638.42 as detailed in Exhibit A (the
              "Fee").

                             (a)     Invoices. Consultant shall invoice City for the Services performed during
              each calendar month at the end of that mouth or as soon as practical thereafter. All invoices
              submitted to City shall contain references to this Agreement. Invoices shall detail the Services
              performed aud shall contain copies of all supporting docwnents or proof of any expenditures on
              behalf of City, and othenvise shall be in sync with the stage of completion of the Services
              outlined in Ei<l1ibit A. Invoices for any approved additional services also shall specify the
              person(s) performing such services, the hours worked, the applicable hourly rate(s),

                              (b)      Questioned Charges. Any questions or objections by City concerning
              Consultant's charges under an invoice for the any services shall be submitted within 30 days
              after City's receipt of the subject invoice.


                                                               -2-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5




                             (c)     Remittances. Subject to subsection 3(6), all invoiced amounts due for
             Services performed shall be paid by City within 30 days after City's receipt of the subject
             invoice. If payment is not remitted or reasonably questioned to Consultant when due, Consultant
             shall be entitled to recover interest thereon at the rate often percent (10%) per anmun from and
             after the date the remittance is due and payable.

                     Section 4.    Change in Level of Services. City shall be freely entitled to modify
             (increase or decrease) the level of the Services hereunder by providing at least l5 days' prior
             written notice to Consultant of such change, provided that any increase in the level of the
             Services shall be subject to Consultant's reasonable approval. Consultant's compensation shall
             be reasonably modified in connection with any such change.

                     Section 5.     Suspension of Services. City shall have the absolute right to tenninate the
             Services at any time without cost or liability to Consultant as provided in this Agreement. City
             also may by written notice direct Consultant to temporarily suspend performance of any or all of
             the Services for a specified period of time. If such suspension is not occasioned by the fault or
             negligence of Consultant, this Agreement may be modified to compensate Consultant for extra
             costs reasonably incmTed as a result of said suspension, provided that any claim for adjustment is
             supported by appropriate cost documentation and asserted within 20 calendar days after the date
             that City issues an order for resumption of the Services_ Upon its receipt of any such suspension
             notice, Consultant immediately shall (a) discontinue the Services; (b) place no further orders or
             subcontracts in connection with the Services; (c) suspend all outstanding orders and subcontracts
             in connection with tJ1e Services; (d) protect and maintain the existing work and work-product in
             connection with the Services; and (e) otherwise mitigate City's costs and liabilities for the
             suspended areas of the Services.

                    Section 6.     Termination for Convenience. City may tenninate this Agreement, or
             any part hereof, at any time with or without cause prior to its completion by sending to
             Consultant written notice of such tem1inatio11. Upon any such tem1ination, City shall pay to
             Consultant the full amount due for all Services satisfactorily performed by Consultant as of the
             date of termination, excluding damages or anticipated profits on work not yet completed or
             performed.

                     Section 7.      Ownership of Designs and Drawings. All documents (whether p rinted or
             stored on paper or as electronic, magnetic, or digital infoilllation) produced or collected by
             Consultant in its performance of the Services (including, without limitation, original drawings,
             estimates, specifications, field notes and data) (collectively, the "Documents") are and shall
             remain the exclusive property of City. Conditioned only on City's paymeut to Consultant of the
             amounts due hereunder, at the conclusion of the Services or any earlier termination thereof
             Consultant shall deliver to City all Documents, whether or not complete. Consultant may, at its
             expense, reproduce for its own records the Documents so supplied to City. Consultant may not
             disclose, sell, use, publish or display any Documents or other information collected or produced
             in connection with its perfonnance of this Agreement without City's prior written consent. City
             agrees that use of Consultant's work product(s) whether completed or not for purposes other than
             identified and specified in this Agreement, is at City's sole and own risk.

                     Section 8.    Nondisclosure; Conflict of Interest Consultant shall not divulge to third
             pa11ies without City's prior written consent any information obtained from or through City in
             connection with the performance of this Agreement. Unless waived by City, Consultant shall
                                                             -3-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C0B5-D6E4-BJ66-8380-8744F9D548F5




             require its employees and subcontractors of any tier to adhere to the same covenant of
             nondisclosure. Consultant shall safeguard the confidentiality of any information obtained from or
             through City in connection with the perfonnance of this Agreement to the same extent as
             Consultant safeguards the confidentiality of its own proprietary or confidential information.
             Consultant and its subcontractors shall not act as a consultant in any matters adverse to City.

                    Section 9.      Compliance with Laws. Consultant shall at all times comply with all
             applicable federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules, regulations, and ordinances, including,
             without limitation, those governing wages, hours, desegregation, employment discrimination,
             workers' compensation, employer's liability and safety. Consultant also shall comply with all
             applicable equal opportunity laws and regulations.

                     Section 10. P::.tent and Copvright. If Consultant's employees, officers, agents,
             subcontractors of any tier, or anyone of a like nature in the perf01mance of the Services or as a
             result of perfonning the Services develop any trade secret, prepare any copyrighted material,
             make any improvement, originate any invention, or develop any process or the like (collectively,
             an "Innovation"), (a) such Innovation shall be the property of Consultant, but (b) Consultant
             shall grant or cause to be used for the benefit of City (or for City's owu internal use) the
             Innovation for so long as City reasonably desires.

                     Section 11. Independent Contractor. Consultant shall perform the Services as an
             independent contractor, and all persons employed by Consultant in connection with this
             Agreement or the Services shall be employees of Consultant and not employees of City in any
             respect or for any purpose.

                     Section 12. Assignment. Consultant shall not assign this Agreement, or any pa1i
             thereof, without City's prior written consent. Any attempted assignment in violation of this
             section shall be void from its inception.

                     Section 13. Subcontracts. Except for those subcontractors which are specified in
              Exhibit A, Consultant shall not award any work to any subcontractor without City's prior written
              approval, which approval will not be given until (a) Consultant submits to City a written
              statement (containing such infonnation as City may require) concerning the proposed award to
              the subcontractor, and (b) City has reasonably approved such proposed subcontract.

              Consultant shall be as fully responsible to City for the acts and omissions of Consultant 's
              subcontractors, and of persons either directly or indirectly employed by such subcontractors, in
              the same manner as Consultant is liable for the acts and omissions of its own employees.
              Consultant shall cause appropriate provisions to be inserted in all subcontracts to bind
              subcontractors to Consultant by the tenns and conditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable
              to the work of subcontractors, and to give Consultant the same power to tenninate any
              subcontract as City may exercise over Consultant under this Agreement. Nothing in this
              Agreement, and no course of dealing, shall create any contractual relationship between City and
              any of Consultant's subcontractors.

                      Section 14. Accounting and Auditing. Consu ltant shall keep accurate and complete
              records in support of all renumeration paid hereunder. City, or its audit representative, shall have
              the right at any reasonable time(s) to examine, audit, and reproduce all records pertaining to
              costs, including but not limited to payrolls, employees' time sheets, invoices, and all other
                                                              -4-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-O6E4-8366-8380-B744F9O548FS




             evidence of expenditures for the Services. Such records shall be available for one year after
             completion of the Services.

                    Section 15. Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be constmed as
             granting to Consultant the exclusive right to perform any or all of the Services from time to time
             required by City.

                     Section 16. Indemnification. Consultant shall indemnify, save and hold ham1less City
             (including its elected and appointed officers, employees, successors and assigns) from and
             against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, costs (including City's reasonable
             attorney fees) actions and/or proceedings to the proportionate extent resulting from Consultant's
             perfonnance of the Services, whether such matters are based on simple negligence, conflict of
             interest, gross negligence, recklessness or intentional misconduct by Consultant (or any
             employees, subcontractors or agents of Consultant). In the event of a lawsuit brought against
             City as a result of the Services (or lack thereof), City shall notify Consultant of such lawsuit and
             afford Consultant the option of providing at Consultant's cost separate qualified legal
             representation to City (including its elected and appointed offices, employees, successors and
             assigns) that is reasonably acceptable to City. Consultant's failure to exercise its option to
             affimrntively defend City in such an action shall not excuse Consultant from responsibility to
             indenmify City from and against all liabilities, claims, damages, costs (including attorney fees)
             or other losses incurred by City in , or as a result of, such lawsuit, pro,.,ided that the same are
             attributable to Consultant's improper perfonnance of the Services hereunder.

             The provisions of this Section 16 are subject to and limited by all pe1iinent law, including.
             without limitation, UTAH CODE Ai"-m. 13-8-7.

                     Section l 7. Insurance. Without Limiting any obligations of Consultant, Consultant
             shall, prior to commencing work, secure and continuously carry insurance in accordance with
             City's standard insurance requirements set forth on attached Exhibit ''B'' and shall furnish proof
             thereof satisfactmy to City promptly when requested.

                    Section 18. Professional Responsibilih·. Consultant shall perform the Services using
             standards of care, skill and diligence as nonually provided by a professional in the performance
             of consulting services similar to those contemplated hereunder. Without limiting any other
             remedies available to City, if Consultant fails to comply with such professional standards,
             Consultant shall, upon notice from City, promptly re-perform the sub-standard work at
             Consultant's sole cost.

                     Section 19. Examination of Work. All Services shall be subject to examination by
             City at any reasonable time(s). City shall have the right to reject any unsatisfactory work. Neither
             examination of the Services, lack of the same, acceptance of the Services by City nor payment
             therefor shall relieve Consultant from its obligations under this Agreement regarding the quality
             and accuracy of the Services.

                      Section 20. Progress. Consultant shall submit periodic written progress reports as
              reasonably requested by City. City or its agents or representatives may visit Consultant's offices
              at any reasonable time(s) to detennine the status of tbe Services.



                                                              -5-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-B366·8380-B744F9D548FS




                     Section 21.    Conflict Resolution. Except as otherwise provided herein, in the event of
             a dispute between the parties regarding the Services which is not disposed of by agreement, the
             resolution of the dispute shall be decided by City, which shall provide written notice of its
             decision to Consultant. Such decision by City shall be final unless Consultant, within 30 calendar
             days after such notice of City's decision, provides to City a written notice of protest. stating
             clearly and in detail the basis thereof. Consultant shall continue its performance of this
             Agreement during such resolution. If the parties do not agree, then the parties shall resolve the
             dispute pursuant to section 22 below.

                     Section 22.    Claims and Disputes. Claims, disputes and other issues between the
             parties arising out of or related to tlus Agreement shall be decided by litigation in the Third
             Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise tenninated pursuant to the
             provisions hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Consultant shall continue to perfonn the
             Services during any such litigation and City shall continue to make payments to Consultant in
             accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

                     Sectio11 23. Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
             deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
             received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such
             notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the
             parties at their addresses specified above or such substitute or additional addresses as a pany
             previously may have provided to the other parties through written notice.

                    Section 24. Citv's Cooperation. City will provide the following assistance to
             Consultant in connection with the Services:

                            (a)     Representative. Designate a representative of City to act as Consultant's
             point of contact with respect to the Services.

                            (b)     lllfor111atio11. Provide to Consultant access to all non-confidential
              infonnation pertaining to the Services that is in City's possession or is reasonably available to
              City. Consultant shall not be responsible for errors or omissions in any City-provided
              infonnation, nor for delays in completing the Services attributable to City's delay in providing
              required infomrntion.

                              (c)   StaffAssistance. Such support of City's staff as City determines, in its sole
              discretion. to make available to Consultant.

                     Section 25.     Conflicts. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
              Agreement, the attached exhibits, or applicable legal requirements, Consultant shall (a) provide
              the better quality or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with the more stringent
              requirements, either or both Ln accordance with City's interpretation.

                    Section 26.         Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this
              Agreement:

                            (a)    Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
              for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of thLs Agreement and


                                                                -6-
Docuslgn Envelope ID: 2167C085-O6E4-8366-83B0-B744F9O548F5




             shall in no way define. limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
             or parts hereof.

                            (b)    Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
             used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter fonns. and the
             singular fom1 of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

                            (c)    Applicable law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
             and constrned in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

                            (d)    Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
             parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and
             understandings pertaining thereto.

                              (e)      Time. Time is the essence hereof.

                            (t)    S1111 ival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties
                                            1


             contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force
             and effect throughout the tem1 of this Agreement.

                             (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of
              any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
              consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
              other covenant. agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
              provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
              conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party.
              No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other
              covenant, agreement, term and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
              respect to any other then existing or subsequently occuning breach.

                              (h)    Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
              not be mutually exclusive. and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
              shall not preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

                             (i)     Severabilitv. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision
              hereof is held to be invalid or void. the same sball be deemed severable from the remainder of
              this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If
              such couditio11, covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth,
              such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth pennitted by law.

                             G)     Litigation. lf any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
              with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the
              prevailing party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be paid
              by the non-prevailing party.

                            (k)     Exhibits. All exhibits annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a part
              of this Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either
              in this Agreement itself or in any of such writings, shall be deemed to refer to and include this
              Agreement and all such exhibits and writings.
                                                                 -7-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C065-D6E4-8356-B380-B744F9D548FS




                            (I}     C'o1111terparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
             counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
             constitute one and the same illStrurnent.

                            (m) Resolutions of Governing Authorities. Consultant hereby represents that it
             has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement by a resolution of its governing body.

                     DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                                             CONSULTANT:

                                                             H.W. LOCHNER,                INC.,   a   Wisconsin
                                                             corporation



                                                             By: [~~-,~lA!l&~-----
                                                             Name: Brandon Cloward

                                                             Its:    Senior Project Manager



                                                             ClTY:

              ATTEST:                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS



                                                             By:
              By:---          - - - - --
                   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                                     -              -----------
                                                                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor
                                                                                            - --




                                                             -8-
Oocuslgo Envelope ID; 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F90548F5




                                           Exhibit "A" to
                          Agree1nent for Planning and Consulting Services

                                          (Attach Consultant's March 2026 Prnposal)




                                                             -9-
Oocusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-06E4-8:J66-8380-B744F90548FS




                                            Exhibit "B" to
                            Agreement for Planning and Consulting Services
                                  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTIES
                            CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                    The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
             insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
             connection with the perfom1ance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
             representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the
             contracting party's bid.

                      A.       MrNIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.

                      The contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

                               1.   Pr~fessional Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per claim and
             in the aggregate for bodily it~ury, personal i1~ury and property damage, including "tail
             coverage" for at least one year after completion of all services.

                              2.     Automobile liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per accident
              for bodily injury and property damage. "Any Auto" coverage is required.

                             3.       Worker's Compensation : Worker's compensation limits as required by
              applicable Law for all employees and other persons.

                             4.     Commercial General Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
              occurrence for personal injury and property damage; $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Broad
              Fonn Commercial General Liability is required (ISO 1993 or better). Personal injury, premises-
              operations, products-completed operation, independent contractors and subcontractors fire legal
              liability and, when appropriate, coverages for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU)
              hazards.

                                5.      Excess Liability. $5,000,000.00.

                       B.       DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-rNSURED RETENTIONS.

                      Any deductibles (5% limit), self-insured programs or retentions must be declared to and
              approved by the city of Cottonwood Heights (tbe "City"). At the option of the City, either: the
              insurer may be required to reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as
              respect to the City, its officers, officials and employees; or the contracting party may be required
              to procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution
              and defense expenses.




                                                                -10-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F90548F5




                     C.       NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT.

                     The contracting party shall agree to promptly disclose to the City all incidents or
             occurrences of accident, injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or
             policies.

                     D.       OTHER INSURANCE PROV1SIONS.

                     The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain. the following provisions:

                              1.       General Liability and Automobile liability Coverages.

                                   (a)    The City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers are to be
             covered as additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities performed by or on
             behalf of the contracting party; products aud completed operations of the contracting party;
             premises owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting party. The coverage shall contain
             no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the City, its officers, officials,
             employees or volunteers.

                                    (b)     The contracting party's insurance coverage shall be a primary
             insurance as respects to the City, its officers, officials, employees and volttnteers. Any insurance
             or self-insura11ce maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall be
             ia excess of the contracting party's insurance and shall not contribute with it.

                                    (c)     Any non-material failure to comply with reporting provisions of
             the policies shall not affect coverage provided to the City, its officers, officials, employees or
             volunteers.

                                  ( d)   The contracting party's insurance shall apply separately to each
             insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the
             insurer's liability.

                              2.       Worker's Compensation and Employer's Liability Coverage.

                             The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against the City, its
             officers, officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work perfom1ed by the
             contracting party for the City.

                              3.       All Coverages.

                            Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that
             coverage shall not be cancelled before its expiration date except after thirty (30) days' prior
             written notice (from the insmer) by first class mail, return receipt requested, has been given to
             the City.

                      E.      ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS.

                           Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a Bests' rating of no less than A:VII,
             unless approved by the Manager.
                                                              -1 l-
Oocusign Envelope 10: 2 167C085-O6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5




                      F.      VERIFICATION OF COVERAGE.

                            The contracting party shall furnish the City with certificates of insurance and with
             original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and
             endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
             behalf. The certificates and endorsements are to be on fonns provided before work commences.
             The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies,
             with all endorsements, at any time.

                      G.       SUBCONTRACTORS.

                             The contracting party shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policy
             or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
             subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.




                                                              -12-
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B 744F9D548F5




        cf- Lochner
                ©e~!~
                                                              2755 E Con o rwmact Parkway I Suite 560
                                                              ,1mn 601 713 5222
                                                                                                        Salt Lake City, UT 84 12 1
                                                                                                        hwlochner com




                February 27, 2026

                Matt Shipp, PE
                City of Cottonwood Heights
                6579 South 3000 East
                Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121

                RE: Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail, Phase 1
                    Lochner Project #26947

                 Dear Matt:

                 Thank you for the opportunity to work on the 100% design and advertising documents for this
                 project. We look forward to working with you on this pedestrian trail project.

                 The following documents include a scope of work with project assumptions and team description, a
                 work plan with tasks described, and a fees summary for the project costs.

                 Please let us know if you have any questions or concerns.

                 Sincerely,

                 !MIJQYJ ~ ~
                 Brandon Cloward, PE
                 Project Manager
Docusign Envelopo ID: 2167C085-06E4-8366-6360-8 744F9054BF5




                                                                  Scope of Work
                                                               Preconstruction Engineering


                                                      Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail, Phase 1
                                               100% Design and Advertising Documents




                                                                   Prepared by H.W. Lochner, Inc.
                                                                                     March 2026


                                                                          For Cottonwood Heights
Oocusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-O6E4-8366-8380-B744F9O548F5




     H.W. Lochner. lnc.I2755 East Cottonwood Parkway I Suite 560 I Salt Lake City, UT 84I21 I 801.713.5222


              Executive Summa ry
              Brief Description:
             The scope of work includes 100% design and advertising documents for a pedestrian trail on the north
             side of Bengal Blvd from the Cottonwood Heights City Hall access, past Butler Hills Or, to just west of
              2160 E. This will be Phase 1 of the trail that will continue to and north on Highland Or. The project will
              advertise for bids summer 2026 for construction to be completed by June 30, 2027,

              Assumpt ions:
              General Assumptions:
                 • The limits for this project are shown in white outline in the exhibit below.
                 • The trail will be 10 feet wide with landscaping adjacent. Preliminary design was completed as
                        part of the Bengal Blvd; Highland Drive to 2160 East environmental study as shown in the below
                        exhibit and will be advanced through the development of plans, specifications, and estimate.
                        w.                   ' li            r:::-            I      .
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                             #       •       : -
                        1,•-                 I    \M     •   '   --                      •                    ,1\


                                             /JS!            •                           •                           - r
                                         ~                                                       •           ~~"    ~~
                                ~                                                                                   II'} "'
                                                                                                                    • i
                        ":-..                                                     .~ 1111-..                             l

                        f.                                                    ~~~~~                                      !,   I

                         ~
                        ..-                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                   -
                        •                                                                                                         ;~\!, :   '   , ~.




                                                             •·
                                                                      I   I

                        ~           -   ..
                        Li.:\! • •               •i .~
                    •    Potential right-of-way impacts include the following:
                                o       Posada, Sebastian E; TC Posada, Luis at 2223 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       Rosen, David M & Priscilla Tat 7575-7577 Butler Hills Dr
                                o       Lee, Kay D & Young, Melvin Sat 2207-2211 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       James D Melius Fam Tr Melius, James D at 2201 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       Sonaut, LLC at 2181 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       Christensen, Jesse D at 2179 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       Clayson, Nick at 7567 S 2160 E
                                o       Piny 7560, LLC at 7560 S 2160 E
                                o       Board of Education of Canyons School District at 2220 E Bengal Blvd
                                o       Corporation of the Presiding Bishop of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at
                                        2150 E Bengal Blvd




                                                                                                         2
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167COB5-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5




     cf- Lochner              @e~is

     H.W. Lochn er, lnc. I 2755 East Cottonwood Parkw.iy I Suite 560 I Salt lake City, UT 84 121 I 801.713.5222


                   •    Right-of-way impacts will be addressed by City staff as permits to enter and construct. Lochner
                        will generate the permit to enter and construct
                   •    Survey data will be extracted from the point cloud data obtained dur ing the environmental
                        study phase
                   •    Project stages and milestones will be as follows:
                              o    Scoping design stage with a Scoping Review - review preliminary design developed
                                   during the Bengal Boulevard & Highland Drive environmental phase including survey
                                   extraction and review of landscape conceptual design
                              o    Preliminary design stage with Plan in Hand (60%) Review
                              o    Final design stage with Plans, Specifications, and Estimate (PS&E 90%) Review
                              o    Advertising review of 100% PS&E to confirm all comments agreed upon between the
                                   City and design team have been incorporated
                   •     Open Roads Designer 2024 will be the software used for CADD and 3D modeling
                   •     A two-week review period is allotted for each milestone review. Review meetings will be held
                         for Scoping, Preliminary Design, Final Design, and Advertising at Cottonwood Heights Public
                         Works office
                   •     7 coordination meetings will be held with the City online or at t he Public Works office
                    •    An environmental assessment is not required as part of this contract
                   •     Bengal Boulevard ,is classified as "Urban Collector 3-Lane" per the Cottonwood Heights
                         Transportation Master Plan, March 30, 2023
                   •     Design speed is 30 mph per the Cottonwaad Heights Transportation Master Plan, March 30,
                         2023
                    •    Plan sheets will be plotted at 40:1 scale
                    •    Pavement design is excluded from this scope
                              o     Pavement section previously used on Bengal Blvd at 2300 East Roundabout (UDOT
                                    Project F-LC3S(247) will be used In situations requiring reconstruction.
                              o     6 inches of HMA- ½ Inch on 12 inches of untreated base course
                    •    No structural/retaining wall design anticipated

              Draingage, Lighting, and Utilities
                  • A drainage study/report will not be prepared
                  •  No drainage inlets are impacted by the project
                    •    Telecommunication/fiber utilities within the reconstruction limits/roadway improvement areas
                         will be identified according to Cl/ASCE 38-02, Standard Guidelines for the Collection and
                         Depiction of Existing Subsurface Utility Data for subsurface utility engineering (SUE) quality
                         levels A-D. All other utilities are assumed to be of sufficient depth to not create any conflicts and
                         will be identified as SUE Level "D"
                    •    S testholes are estimated for SUE Level "A"
                    •    Area/path lighting will be developed
                    •    City to contact Rocky Mountain Power to generate lighting and RRFB power source work order



                                                                                   3
Docuslgn Envelope ID: 2167COB5-D6E4-B366-8380-8744F90548F5




     H.W. Lothner, lnc. I2755 East Cottonwood Parkway I Suite 560 I Salt Lake City, UT 84121 I 801.7\3.5222

                   •       Rectangular rapid flashing beacons (RRFBs) will be hard wired for power and for each circuit
                           (signal, push button, and future use)

              Public Involvement
                   •       No public involvement effort is required. Any Pl support wi ll be provided by Cottonwood Heights
                           City.
                   •       No public open house nor hearing will be required.
                   •       No one-on-one meetings with individual landowners. Cottonwood Heights staff will meet with
                           indi vidual landowners. Lochner will develop exhibits depicting impacts at each property.

              Team:
              Lochner will be the prime and prepare th e 100% design and advertising documents. We are supported
              by Meridian Engineering for survey, aerial imagery, and existing right-of-way research; KCI for SUE
              investigation; and AECOM for landscape architecture.

              Proposed Schedule:
              The proposed final design will take 7 months after notice to proceed. Refer to attached schedule.

              Fee Type:
              This contract will be a cost plus 10% fixed-fee with a not to exceed amount as outlined in the attached
              cost estimate.


              Work Plan
              Scoping Design
              OBJECTIVES:
              Lochner will setup the CADD workspace on Lochner's ProjectWise. Lochner will oversee the work of
              subconsultants Meridian Engineering to prepare the topographic survey from the LiDAR point cloud
              previously obtained and aerial imagery, KCI for SUE invest igation and utility mapping, and AECOM for
              landscape design. A site visit will be performed with the City to assess relevant maintenance issues to
              the project area and identify potential items t o be included In the project scope. A kickoff meeting with
              the City will review the design completed to dat e and identify any needed changes. Design changes may
              include location of bulbouts, crosswalks, curb and gutter, fi re hydrants, driveway layouts and trail
              alignment. Identified changes will be implemented prior to the Scoping Review meeting. Landscape
              aesthetics will be determined in collaboration with the City. The Scoping Review will set the overall
              design. A cost estimate will be prepared In the next stage.

               DELIVERABLES:
                   • Landscape conceptual design
                   • Site visit notes
                   • 2D trail layout
                   • Quality control documentation
                       •    Scoping Review agenda


                                                                                 4
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4·8366·B380-B744F90548F5




      cf- Lochner             @e~is



     H.W. Lochner. lnc. I2755 East Cottonwood Parkway I Suite 560 I Salt Lake City, UT 841 21 I 801.713.5222

                   •       Comment resolution form

              Prel iminary Design
              OBJECTIVES:
              The design will be updated with comments from the Scoping Review and site visit. A 3D model of the
              trail and new location of curb and gutter will be developed. Striping layout will be updated and signing
              layout will be developed. Utility sheets will show the layout of the existing utilities, utility conflicts and
              mitigations. These will include adjusting manholes, valve boxes, monument boxes and other visib le
              features to the new grade. Lighting sheets will show the area/path lighting layout and identify pertinent
              power sources. A construction cost estimate will be prepared. Lochner will schedule and attend the
              60% design review meeting.

              DELIVERABLES:
                  • Plan in Hand (60%) Design
                  •  Plan in Hand (60%) Engineer's Estimate
                  • Quality control documentation
                  • Comment resolution form


              Final Design
              OBJECTIVES:
              Lochner will take the comments and changes from preliminary design meetings and incorporate th em
              into the design and estimate. Lochner will final ize the design sheets according to the City requirements
              for advertising. Lochner will produce the specifications and finalize the estimate as required by the City
              for advertising. Lochner will develo p an independent cost estimate and perform a constructability
              review. A design review meeting with Cottonwood Heights will be held to review the design,
              specifications and final estimate at 90%.
              DELIVERABLES:
                   • PS&E (90%) Design
                   • PS&E (90%) Engineer's Estimate
                   • PS&E (90%) Specifications
                   •   Final (100%) plans, specifications, & estimate
                       •   Quality contro l documentation
                       •   Comment resolution form



               Project Management
               OBJECTIVES:
               Project Management and ove rsig ht of the project scope, schedule and budget.
               ACTIVITIES:
                   • Manage the activities of the project process. Identify efforts, if any, that are not consistent with
                       the scope and receive approval from Cottonwood Heights prior to initiating work on these
                       efforts.


                                                                                 s
Docus!gn Envelope ID: 2167C085-06E4-8366-8380-B744F90548F5




     cf- Lochner            @e~is


     H.W Lochner, lnc.I2755 East Cottonwood Parkway I Suite 560 I Salt Lake City, UT 841211801.713.5222

                  •    Manage subconsultant agreements.
                  •    Manage the project schedule. Prepare and submit to Cottonwood Heights an updated project
                       schedule monthly.
                  •    Manage the project budget. Develop and review trend analyses of the project costs and effort
                       expended to date and compare that to the level of effort for each task as estimated.
                  •    Coordinate project meetings with Cottonwood Heights. Prepare meeting agendas, compile
                       meeting minutes, summarize and distribute action items.
                  • Prepare and submit detailed invoices that include a monthly project update which describes the
                    work completed in the previous month, work planned for in the following month and provides
                    an update to the project milestones.
             DELIVERABLES:
                 • Team Meetings and Meeting Notes
                • Monthly Progress Meeting Minutes, Progress Reports and Invoices.
                •  Project Responsibility Chart
                •  Monthly Update of Project Schedule
             ASSUMPTIONS:
                • 7 meetings are estimated
                       o Project team meetings will be held at Cottonwood Heights Public Works or on line (1
                           hour per meeting)




                                                                             6
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-06E4-8366-8380-B744F90548F5


     CLIENT:                                    Cottonwood Heights                                                      Consultant PM:      Brandon Cloward
     Project Numb er/PIN:                       NIA                                                                         Client PM:      Ben Nelsen
     Project Name:                              Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail , Phase 1                                     Consult ant:     Lochner, Egl s Group
     Lochner Proj ect #:                        26947


     LABOR

                                                                                                                                Adjusted
     Name                   Position                                                                   Hours     Act ual Rate    Rate •               Total
     Aaron Watson           Utilities Lead                                                                 33    $     86.50 $      89.10    $            2,940.30
     Amy Kollman            Traffic/ Liohtino Enoineer                                                     19    s     72.10 $      74.26    $            1,4 10.94
     Brad Lucas             Lead Liahllna Enaineer                                                          5    $     97.34 $     100.26    $              501.30
     Brandon Cloward        Project Manager                                                                71    $     95.28 $      98.14    $            6,967.94
     Dean Lee               Estimator                                                                      18    $     86.98 $      89.59    $            1,612.62
     Gene Cline             Lead Design Em:iineer                                                          48    $     77.17 $      79.49    $            3,815.52
     Hannah Lim             Roadwav Enaineer                                                               86    $     54.69 $      56.33    $            4,844.38
     Kaiden Laux            Designer                                                                       59     $    34.66 $      35.70    $            2,106.30
     Milo Hohmann           Designer                                                                       131    $    34.66 $      35.70    $            4,676.70
     Peooer Debenham        Contract Soecialist                                                            20     $    45.00 $      46.35    $               927.00
        .
     Shawn Snissarenko
        Rate ad1ustment
                            QA Auditor                                                                      10    $   127.36 $     131.18    $             1,311 .80

     Subtotal                                                                                              500                               $           31,114.80
     Overhead                                                                                                                     169.36%                52,696.03
     Direct Labor plus Overhead                                                                                                              $           83,810.83
     Fee                                                                                                                           10.00%                 8,381.08
       Total Labor Cost                                                                                                                      $           92,191 .91


      REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
      Travel                                                                                         Mileage, Auto, Airfare, Meals, Lodgin                      72.50
        Total Reimbursable Expenses                                                                                                          $                  72.50


      SUBCONTRACTORS
      KCI Technologies, Inc                                                                           SUE/ Utility Mapping                       $.       17,228.74
      Meridian Engineering, Inc                                                                       Survey & ROW                               s        12J300.00
      AECOM                                                                                           Landscape Architecture                     $        2!J,545.27
        Total Subcontractors                                                                                                                     $        59,374.01

      TOTAL                                                                                                                                      $       151 ,638.42




            3/912026
                                                                                                                                            cf- Lochner       @eg,s
            c:\P'-¥_•wo:1'1ng\lochner•Jl''t'•0l'd036171C1\21>!),,t 7 t!,e~ remp1ot1:?.Jlsm   Page 1 of 1
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5

      CLIEKT:            Cotlonwood H•lghts                                                                                                                                                                                                         Consul~n1 PM: Br;i.ndon crow:ard
      ProJKl Number/PIN: NJA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CUont PM:   Ban M•l~l"I
      Project Hllm•:                  0•ngal Blvd Peda:stcian Tntll, Ptr.ls• 1                                                                                                                                                                         Conaul1an1: Locl1nar, Eg~ Group
      Lochner P roject 11:             26!347
                                                                                                                                         Estlmate of Person Hours


                                                                                                                                                                      NAMt;AND LAS.Ort CATEGORY

                                                                                                                                                         Brandon                                Hann4h                                 PopJntr        Sh.11wn
                   TASK                                                    TASK                     A.aronW;at-'JCn   Arrtt1 KoUrnon   Btad Lucas        ClowArd    Dean Loe     G11n1tClln11     Lim      Kakl•n Law:   MlloHnh~nn   Oabanh;iim    Sni ssa~nll:o     HOURS        TASK

                                                                                                                         Tndficl                                                    Leod
                                                                                                                        Ughllng        LndUghUng          Project                  Ooelon       Roldw~y                               Contract
                   NO                                                    DESCRlPnON                 UtllillHbld         l:nglneer       Engineer        Moni1g•r    E!ltlmatar    En glnow      Enolnocr    O ■ sJgnnr    Do&lgner    Spscbll.llt   ClA Audttor      PER TASK       HO
                    1                 Sco0lna Ocsi<m
                                                                                                              •             2              0                    1       0
                                                                                                                                                                                      •            16              0         18            0             2               51            1
                                       ~tuo CAOD wotk~gao!:
                                      Sire Visit                                                              1             1
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                1                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   •
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2                         1
                                      :;a% OesiQn rR~wav t:tl~. ""'lal ucllon
                                      K1ckotrm&eUM
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                              I             1
                                                                                                                                                                •
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                         t         •
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2




                    2                 Prcltrnln.arv Desi n
                                      Oeo.,eloo 30 mcdel
                                                                                                          •                 •              •                ,.
                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                        •            ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..•          .,            •2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0              2              231         2


                                      Ro.tttNav :;taecils                                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                      •            •                         20

                                                                                                                                                                                     ••
                                      Stn~iM & SkininrJ shee~                                                                                                   1                                  a                         20
                                      RtmeNa\ Sheets                                                                                                            1                                  B                         20
                                      Uli ttv lih@cts                                                     G                                                     1                                              20
                                      TVDical Mdts1a                                                                                                            1                     2            ◄                         a
                                      LiahlinO st'ect,                                                                      s                                   1                                              ,a
                                     1l-nnlnecr'S Estlmuie
                                     OLGIHtv C01'1tral doci:merrt:alion                                   2
                                                                                                              1             1
                                                                                                                            2              2
                                                                                                                                                                t
                                                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                        •             ''           •
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •                           2
                                     SO%Ra~me                                                                                                                   1
                    3                 FlnalO•lnn                                                          13
                                                                                                                           •               3                11         12            11           21           14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1B            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •2             123         3
                                      90% rlfWU."'ln                                                      8
                                                                                                                           •                                •                        4             6           10
                                     90~ F.nninNf'• E.l,tlrn11to
                                     90% SIM!cifiCltlona
                                                                                                          1                 I                               1
                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                       1D
                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .
                                     lndenl!!t'ldent Co-sl Estitn.)lct & Ccnsttuetab1l1tv Review-
                                     90% Review MeelmtJ                                                   2                2                                2          2             2             2
                                     Oual!W contJcl doa.men!a.tlon                                                                        2                     I                    2                                                                   2
                                     100% PS8.!:                                                          2                2               I                    I                    2             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               •
                    •                 Proi.ct M:a,uaemont
                                                                                                          •                0
                                                                                                                                          •                43          2             l            1            l             3           20              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ••          •
                                     Subcona.uttant Cc:crdina1iorvContracts
                                     Pro;!d Sc::hadula
                                                                                                          2                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          •
                                     ?tc/oct BUCfQet
                                     Proiecl Mttetinas.                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                            11
                                                                                                                                                                       ,             3            7            l             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2

                                     ln~ciclno                                                            1                                                 7




                                     UUOOI              r a talNOUt'S                                    33                19             5                71
                                                                                                                                                                       "            ••            ..          59            131          20             10              500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              d2- Lochner
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      © cob
        ,,,,,,.,,
        S'_   __    _ _ _ , , , .. . . ., , _ . . , , _ , ............
                                                                                                                                                   F'a;,a2d.a
Docusign Envelope ID: 216 7C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5


         CLIENT:                               Cottonwood Heights                                                 Consultant PM : Brandon Cloward
         Project Number/PIN:                   NIA                                                                    Client PM: Ben Nelsen
         Project Name:                         Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail, Phase 1                                 Consultant: Lochner, Egls Group
         Lochner Project#:                     26947


                                                                               Reimbursable Excenses
                                              I                                           Unit Cost          Unit          Quantltv         Total
         MISCELLANEOUS                                   509100
         Suoolies                                                                                     LS                                $       .
         Courier                                                                                12.50 each                                      .
         Airborne overnight exoress                                                             17.60 each                                      -
         Postaoe                                                                                 0.46 each                                      -
         Public Involvement                                                                                                                     -.
         Postaoe                                                                                 0.50 each
         Boards                                                                                 25.00 each                                      -
         Misc: (refreshments)                                                                   50.00 each                                      -
         Advertisements in Newsoaoer- Disolav                                                  500.00 each                                      -
                                                                                                                                                .
         Meeting Rooms                                                                         125.00 each
         Stenooraoher (Court Recorter)                                                         500.00 each                                      -
         Business Packets                                                                       10.00 each                                          -
         Hotline                                                                                40.00 month            I                            -
         Website                                                                                40.00 month                                         -
         Postcards (includina oostaae)                                                           0.90 each                                          .
         Newsletters (includina postaael                                                         1.30 each
                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                    -
         Contact Cards                                                                           0.10 each                                          .
                   Subtotal                                                                                                                                 $0.00
                                               I

          TRAVEL                       509200                                                                                                       -
          Mileage (rate effective Januarv 1, 2026)                                               0.725 Miles                   100.00          72.50
          Car Rental                                                                                   Dav                                          -
          Airfare                                                                                      Trio                                         -
          Hotel                                                                                        dav                                          -
          Meals                                                                                        dav                                          -
                   Subtotal                                                                                                                                 $72,50

          MAPPING, PHOTOS AND SUPPLIES
          Maos                                                                                            each                                      -
          Photos and Photoaraohv succlies                                                                 each                                      -
                   Subtotal                                                                                                                                  $0.00

          REPRODUCTION                                     509500
          8.5x1 1 B\W Cooies                                                                         0.05 each                                          -
          8.5x11 Color Copies                                                                        0.25 each                                          -
          11x17 B\W Cooies                                                                           0.10 each                                          -
          11x17Color Copies                                                                          0.50 each                                          -
          EA COPIES                                                                                       each                                          -
          Plots
          Plots                                                                                      1.25 linear/ft.                                    -
                    Subtotal                                                                                                                                 $0.00

          COMMUNICATION                                     509600
          Phone                                                                                      50.00 mo.                                          .
                    Subtotal                                                                                                                                  $0.00
                                                   I

           COMPUTERS                                        509700
           Technoloav Charae                                                                               Hour                                         -
           Software                                                                                        each            I                            -
                      Subtotal                                                                                                                                $0.00

           Total Reimbursable Ex penses                                                                                                                      $72.50


          2/27/2026
                                                                                                                                               cf- Lochner    ©09<
          c:,p111_""0,•1nollochn1r•vN-011dOJl51710\26947 Fcu Terni:JiJI~ dsm           Page 3 or 4
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-8744F9D548F5




        CLIENT:                 Cottonwood Heights                        Consultant PM:   Brandon Cloward
        Project Number/PIN:     N/A                                           Client PM:   Ben Nelsen
        Project Name:           Bengal Blvd Pedestrian Trail, Phase 1        Consultant:   Lochner, Egis Group
        Lochner Project#:       26947

                                                     Cost by Task
                                                                                           Total Loaded Labor        fotal Labor Cost Per
               Task No.                    Task Description               Hours Pet Task                                                               Discipline
                                                                                             Cost Per Task                   Task
                   1           Scoping Design                                   57         $         10,864.67   $               3,666.83   Scooina Design
                   2           Preliminary Design                              231         $         35,783.79   $              12,077.04   Preliminary Desian
                   3           Final Desiqn                                    123         $         24,891.20   $               8,400.79   Final Design
                   4           Project Management                               89         $         20,652.25   $               6,970.14   Project Management
                   5           0                                                0          $               -     $                    -
                   6           0                                                0          $               -     $                    -
                   7           0                                                0          $               -     $                    -
                                                                 TOTAL:        500                   92,191.91                  31,114.80



                                                                            Hours Per      Total Loaded Labor    Total Labor Cost Per
        Lochner TASK CODE                  Task Description
                                                                            Disciplfne     cost Per Discipline         Discipline
               DES30           Scoping Design                                          57 $         10,864.67    $              3,666.83
               DES60           Preliminary Desiqn                                     231 $         35,783.79    $             12,077.04
               DES90           Final Design                                           123 $         24,891.20    $              8,400.79
               MGMNT           Project Management                                      89 $         20,652.25    $              6,970.14
                               TOTAL                                                  500 $         92,191.91    $             31,114.80




      2/27/2026
                                                                                                                                                        cf- Lochner ®C!l'<
      c :\pw_working\lochner-pw-01\d0361710\26947 Fees Template.xlsm                 Page4of4
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-836G-8380-B 744 F9O548F 5




             AS'COM                                                                       AECOM
                                                                                          756 E Winchester St #400
                                                                                          Murray, Utah 84107
                                                                                          aecom.com
             February 27, 2026
             Attn: Brandon Cloward
             H.W. Lochner, Inc,
             2755 East Cottonwood Parkway
             Suite 560
             Salt Lake City, UT 84121
             E-mail: bcloward@hwlochner.com

             Subject:          Bengal Blvd Landscape Planting and Irrigation Design
                               Preconstruction Engineering: UDOT Project F-2218(1)0/PIN 18816
                               Revised: NA

             Dear Mr. Cloward:
             Thank you for the opportunity to submit the following Cost Plus Fixed Fee Proposal for professional
             architectural/engineering consulting services for the above-referenced project located in the City of Cottonwood
             Heights, Utah. AECOM Technical Services, Inc. (AECOM) understands that this work, as described below, is for
             subconsultant services under H.W. Lochner (Lochner) acting as the Prime Consultant to the City of Cottonwood
             Heights under Contract 26947. AECOM submits this proposal on behalf of the team members listed below under
             the Project Team section. The acceptance of this proposal is contingent upon mutually agreed terms and
             conditions as agreed to previously.

             A. Project Description:

             The overall (Lochner) project scope of work is to provide preconstruction engineering design services to add a
             trail along the north side of Bengal Boulevard between 2160 East and the City Hall property (between Butler Drive
             and 2300 East} in the City of Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The new trail to be added is a continuation of an existing
             multi-use trail. Please refer to Figure 1 below.

             The AECOM scope of this project is to provide landscape aesthetics for design of the area of wor1< identified
             Figure 1 below.

             AECOM Disciplines for this scope of work
               o Landscape Planting
               o Landscape Irrigation
               o Landscape Lighting Selection (not electrical design)
               o Meetings as outlined in Section C


             B. Project Understanding

             1-Project Management

             Internal AECOM PM/PC Activities
             peliverables:

                  •   Schedule updates
                  •   Subconsultant agreement with Lochner
                  •   Processed invoices to Lochner
                  •   Contract and agreement modifications
                  •   Internal project reporting and plan updates
                  •   Meeting notes as they relate to AECOM scope items
                  •   Prepare Project Management and Project Quality Plans




             a ccam_com

                                                                                                                           1/5
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-6360-8744F9D548F5



             AECOM

            AECOM will attend the Kickoff meeting and additional client meetings (see Section C) and document comments and
            responses from the meeting as they pertain to AECOM scope.

            Deliverables:

                •    Kickoff Meeting
                     Additional Client Meetings
                     Meeting notes as they relate to AECOM scope items



             2-Scoping Stage/Conceptual Design :

             AECOM will collaborate with Lochner and Cottonwood Heights to assess the landscape aesthetics requirements for the
             projects. The landscape aesthetics vision is anticipated to include landscape planting (with associated irrigation) and
             landscape lighting, divided by potential budget impact. The vision will be demonstrated within concept deliverables for
             review and confirmation by Cottonwood Heights. This effort includes design review meetings with Lochner (see Section
             C)


             Deliverables:

                     Landscape Aesthetics Concept Package: Overall Concept W/one (1) Baseline Illustration Package
                     Landscape Aesthetics Budget Strategy: Layered Approach shown as three (3) iterations of the Baseline
                     Illustration

             AECOM will attend the Scoping review meeting and document comments and responses from the meeting as they
             pertain to AECOM scope of work. This meeting will review the project for consistency, accuracy, and construclability
             within the project's available funding.

             Deliverables:
                     Phase Meeting: Scoping/Conceptual Design Review
                     Internal Review Meeting(s)
                •    Meeting notes as they relate to AECOM scope items
                 •   Comment Resolution Fonn (CRF) with initial dispositions

             3-PS&E Stage/60% Design:

             AECOM will ad vance the landscape aesthetics design based on the selected iteration at the Scoping Stage/Conceptual
             Design Review meeting, and comments from the Scoping Stage/Conceptual Design Review meeting for the landscaped
             areas. Plans will be developed and submitted to Lochner with appropriate QA/QC review documentation . An rough
             order of magnitude (ROM) opinion of probable cost will be developed and included during this activity. This effort
             includes design review meetings with Lochner (see Section C)

              Deliverables:
                  •   Landscape Planting Design Package
                      Landscape Irrigation Design Package
                      Landscape Furnishings Selection (Lighting)
                  •   Landscape Opinion of Probable Cost (ROM for budgeting purposes)
                      QC Documentation

              AECOM will attend the PS&E/60% Design review meeting and document comments and responses from the meeting
              as they pertain to AECOM scope. This meeting will review the project for consistency, accuracy, and constructabillty
              within the project's available funding.

              Deliverables:
                      Phase Meeting: PS&E/ 60% Design Review
                      Internal Review Meeting(s)
                      Meeting notes as they relate to AECOM scope items
                      Comment Resolution Form (CRF) with initial dispositions



              ac~om.com
                                                                                                                                   2/5
Docus1gn Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D54BF5




             AECOM


             4-Plan in Hand/100% Design:

             AECOM will advance the landscape aesthetics design based on notice to proceed and comments from the PS&E
             Stage/60% Design Review meeting for the landscaped areas. Plans will be developed and submitted to Lochner with
             appropriate QA/QC review documentation. An updated ROM opinion of probable cost for budgeting purposes will be
             developed and included during this activity. This effort includes design review meetings with Lochner (see Section C)

             Deliverables:
                •    Landscape Planting Design Package
                     Landscape Irrigation Design Package
                •    Landscape Furnishings Selection (Lighting)
                •    Development of quantities, Updated ROM Opinion or Probable Cost, Measurement and Payment materials
                 •   QC Documentation


             AECOM will attend the plan-in-hand/g0% Design review meeting and document comments and responses from the
             meeting as they relate to AECOM scope items. This meeting will review the project for consistency, accuracy, and
             constructability within lhe project's available funding. •

             Deliverables:

                 •    Phase Meeting: Plan in Hand 90% Design Review
                      Internal Review Meeting(s)
                      Meeting notes as they relate to AECOM scope items
                 •    100% Design documents- Landscape Planting Design, Landscape Irrigation Design, Lighting Selection
                      Comment Resolution Form (CRF) with initial dispositions

             5-Advertising Stage

             AECOM will support the advertising of the project by Cottonwood Heights, for the disciplines within the AECOM scope
             of work.

             Deliverables:
                •    Provide formal response to advertising questions, written and as plan in hand addendums

             6-Post Advertising Phase

             Not Included.

              C. Project Deliverables, Assumptions and Meetings:
              Deliverables (across all activities)
                       Design activities are divided into Scoping, PS&E, and Plan in Hand for the landscape aesthetics discipline in
                       lieu of the UDOT Project Delivery Network. Other aspects (measurement and payment, etc) of the d esign
                       work shall be completed per the 2014 Utah Department of Transportation (UOOT) Project Delivery Network
                       version 1.12 and advertising requirements .
                   •   Plan sheets will be at 40:1 scale with approximately six sheets . Approximately the same quantity of sheets
                       per discipline wi ll be proVided by AECOM
                   •   The design work shall be completed per the Cottonwood Heights Engineering Standards
                       (https://www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov/city-services/engineeringlengineering-standards), APWA, and
                       UDOT standards (if necessary) and follow Cottonwood Heights advertising requirements.
                       Landscaping will carry the Iheme from the Bengal Boulevard 2300 East roundabout. Includes
                       trees on the north side of Bengal Boulevard.
                        Landscape retaining walls if required will be provided by Lochner
                   •    No hardscape, landscape slgnage or wayfinding , furnishings (other than lighting fixture coordination) design
                       are included in the AECOM scope of work. The base design will be provided to AECOM by Lochner.
                        No site design is included in the AECOM scope of work .
                        No grading is required .



              aec:orn.com
                                                                                                                                   3/5
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D548F5




             A:COM

                          No special provisions are planned
                          Civil Engineer and/or Cottonwood Heights will provide data on irrigation water supply sufficient to operate
                          requested system and provide access to water main within the project limit of work.



             Meetings (across al! actjvitiesl. 10 Total:
             AECOM design lead will attend meetings in person. AECOM design staff may attend al/ m eetings virtually
                          Client Meetings
                               o Kickoff Meeting    One (1 ):  2 Hour (2 People: 1 person virtual; 1 in-person
                               o Additional         Three (3): 2 Hours each (1 Person attends 2 In-person, 1 virtual, 1 Person all
                                   virtual)
                          Phase Review Meetings      Three (3 ): 1 Hour each (2 People: 1 in-person; 1 person virtual)
                  •       Design Team Meetings
                               o With Lochner        Three (3): 1 Hour each (2 People both virtual)


             D: Project Schedule/Phasing:
             The project is anticipated to advertise for construction in fall 2026. The following general schedule has been
             provided. The AECOM Scope as outlined will be coordinated with the appropriate delivery schedule.

             ACTIVITY                                       DATE                               NOTES
             NTP/Project Kickoff Meeting                   !March  11 , 2026
             Landscape Concept Design Package Due           March  25,  2026
             Scoping Deliverables Due/Phase Review Meeting  April 15. 2026
             PS&E Phase: 60% Design Due/Review Meeting July 29, 2026
             Plan in Hand: 90% Design Due/Review Meeting September 16, 2026
             Plan in Hand: 100% Design Updates Due          September 30, 2026                 ll\ECOM Final Deliverable
             Advertising Start                              October 1, 2026
             Bid Opening                                    October   28, 2026



              E: Project Team:
              To support this project, AECOM is proposing the following design team:
                  •  Principal Landscape Architect     Kelly Gillman
                  •  Landscape Designer                 Cooper Parson
                  •  Engineering/Drafting Support       Hailey Hicken
                  •  QA/QC                              Brendan Kempt


              F. Compensation:
              This contra ct will be cost plus fixed fee with a not to exceed amount as outlined in the attached cost estimate.


              G. Attachments:
                      •    Figure 1: Project Limits Map
                      •    Fee Proposal




              aecom.com
                                                                                                                                    4/5
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-B366-8380-B744F9D548F5




             AECOM

            Please let us know if you require any additional information or clarification regarding this proposal.


             Sincerely,
             AECOM Technical Services, Inc.




            Kelly Gillman, ASLA, AICP                                       Jason Sielcken, AIA
            Principal, Urbanism & Planning Studio Lead                      Vice President, Managing Principal
            Buildings + Places, West Region                                 Buildings + Places, Rocky Mountain Practice
            (385) 274-7412                                                  AECOM Technical Services, Inc. (AECOM)
            kelly.gillman@aecom.com                                         jason.sielcken@aecom.com




                  . .                             '
             I! ,i•~     ' · ~--                                                                                 ...
             Figure 1: Project limits for this project are shown in white outline.




             aecom,com
                                                                                                                          5/5
Oex&nign Enw:loc:,e 10: 21G7C08S-06E4-836G·83SO-B74.:F90548F5




                    A:COM
                   AECOM wos Pro_posal:
                   ! BN1j'J I IJlV:J L 1n , 1 i(Jf" ' l\,n,llu•UC" I( 1 r \1 · ,11.-11f                                   ~             I
                                                                                                                                                                                ProJtictTum                                                rojecc Controi:.

                                                                                                                                            f'roj«t

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                            Pnn<lp•I/                            (nclnefflnc/0.                               ProJea
                                                                                                                                                                                 Oel(Mr                                                                                                             Taslr.W1th
                                                                                                                                            Man•1er         land,ape:                             afle, tttall.y      l.V(llrendln)

                                                       . ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Controller       Total Hours        Tnk Raw Labof
                                                                                                                                            (Lauri•!        Nd>(lcllyl           ''-"'l             t!kll•n)                               (51.,,Molo A.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Burden             o........
                                                                                                                       1.ULG Ritti:.~                                                                                                                                                                                   (1 ? 1 !!"-1
                                                           .,
                                                 '""'m1 , 1.. 1, .. , ~,..111 ..11   1/Hl llftt,1,11•u11                                           '1•1 I
                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                        .,              .'                                    ..                                                                            2.218             1.mj
                   T;,sk 1.0 • Project M~::u:t:mtttt                                                                                                   18                   s                8                  0                      0                12              43           $2,597.00         $5,760.2]
                                       Pro]t.-ct Sur,ervl~lon                                                                                          16                                                                                                               16           $ 1,120.00        S.?,JS-1 , lG
                                       Projcec Control ja!:sumc 8 rnonth,o)                                                                                                                                                                             12                             $640.80         Sl,421.25
                                             Auend r,ojec1 Kld1•0ff Meetlng lconsult. 1cJm leoi:h/UTA/PMSC/ProJca f'.>rtnersJ
                                             (iiswmc 2-hour m.eetint.l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                             1
                                             Prepare Projett Ma11,u1ement Plan                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                            2                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            •I         5235.26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        570.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $521.81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5155.26
                                             O~elop QualilV Man.iocment Pl.an                                                                           I                                                                                                                    I          $70.00           $155.26
                                             Additional CJient Meetlnis (3) KelJv and Cooper to split them                                                               3                 6                                                                                9         $460.98          $1.022.45
                   Ta.sk 2.0 • Sa>----;;,ng Staie: Conc.eptiu.1 Oesl,:n PKkau
                                             Landscane PlantlnR Cone.ear OesiRn Pac:D~e e. IHus1r.1ti0n
                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                         •
                                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                                                                                                          ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3l
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                    0               56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $2,173.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $1.217.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S4,BJ9.B9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $2,700.99
                                             Layered Budr,etStroner.v fl Iterations an Illustration Pack.lee)
                                            Intern.JI Revirw Mee1inRS 11 J                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                           •2                  12                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $566.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $153.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sl,256.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5340.82
                                            Sco0ln,:i/Conces,1ual O.esir,n Review Meeflnr,:
                   Task 3.0 • PS&E Phue: 00" Ouml                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                          32                   32                  2                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S23S.l6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     53,151.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5Sll.SJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      56.989.45
                                            Comment Resolullnn                                                                                                           I                                                                                               5             5225.72          $500.65
                                            L.1ndsctoe Aesthetics Orawlnl!s                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                          ll                   32                                                       ••9          SI.SSS.44        53.456.62
                                            L.JndsCJl'.)C Opinion of Prob.Jble Cost
                                            QC Documen1.1don
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                        •                 •
                                                                                                                                                                                          A                                        2                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5369.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5608.32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S820. 3 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SJ.349.25



                                                                                                                                                                                                               ..
                                            lntttn.11 Review Mect/nf!S 11)                                                                                              I                                                                                                              5153.66         $]40.82
                                            PS&E 60% DH/itn Review Mectine,                                                                                             2                2'                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         •             5235. 26          5521.81
                   rask 4.0 • Plan In Hand Phase: 100% Oeslc,n                                                                                          0               9               28                                         2                    0              87            $3,570.16        $7,918.61
                                           Comment Resolution                                                                                                           I                4                                                                               5             Sl.25.72         SS00.65
                                           Undsc.ir:,e Aesthetlcs Or.>wlngs                                                                                                             12                     31                                                      4•1          Sl,SSS.4'l       53.456.62
                                           Undsc.ipe Qu:rilJtles .1nd M&P                                                                                               I                4                     16                                                      ! I            5 182. 76      51,749.47
                                           QC Doc:umcnlatk>o
                                           Internal Review Meetlnc (lJ
                                                                                                                                                                        •I                4
                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                   10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SbUH,32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5153.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S l •.349.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S340B2
                                           Pli!n in Hand 909!. Oewtn Revh:!w Mee tint!                                                                                  2                 2                                                                             4             S?J S.J6         SS]l.81
                  Tuk S.O ~ Advertlslnl!:                                                                                                              0                1                 8                    •                   0                    0              13             S510.60        Sl,132.51
                                    IAdverrlslnR Support
                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                          •                    •                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ss10.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sl,132.51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SO.DO
                  Totals                                                                                                                               18              28               96                 116                     4                   12             274          SJ.2.002.12      526,620.70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Flied F<tc                  10 ·~    S2,662.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total                                                     Direct Cous               S262.SO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~l. ':::l-"'!-!'
Oocusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-O6E4-8366-8380-8744F9D548F5




                               ISO 9001 :201 SCERTIFIED                                       HV-0081727 I UT-987J284-S501

                       '™
             KCI
             March 7, 2026

             Lochner
             2755 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 560
             Salt Lnke City, UT 84121

             Lochner Authorized Representative: Brandon Cloward, PE

             Subject: Bengal Blvd.; 2 160 East to City Hall ("Project")
                      KCl Proposal Nmuber: 00054270_P

             KC[ Technologies, Inc. (KCI) is pleased to submit !his professional services proposal (the "Proposal")
             to Loclmer ("Client") for the services (the "Services") described in the Scope of Services section of
             tbis Propost1l. The Proposal shall be valid for a period of six months from the date hereon. Acceptance
             and execution thereafter slrnll be conditioned on KCI's reaffirmation of the proposal.

             SCOPE OF SERVICES
             This Proposal is limited exclusively to the Services as described below and anything not expressly
             described shall be considered expressly excluded from the Services. Any modifications to the Services
             made after execution of this Proposal will be Additional Services unless otherv.rise agreed to in writing
             by both parties.

              KCI's understanding of the Bengal Blvd.; 2 I 60 East to City Hall Project is to provide utility
              information to assist the design team. KCI \,rill provide limited Subsurface Utility Engineering (SUE)
              Quality Levels "D, C, B & A" ns per ASCEIUESJICI 38-22, Standard Guideline for Investigating and
              Documenting Existing Utilities. Project limits are shown on the attached Exhibit A. Test Hole locations
              will be determined at ti lnter dnte.

              Ounlity Levels D, C & B
              KCI will complete the communications ouly mapping of utility alignments as foUows:

                  •    Produce and obtain necessary encroachment pemtits from local jurisdiction(s) to perform the
                       Services within project right-of-way.
                  •    Coordinate with a local traffic control provider to produce traffic control plaus and secure
                       traffic permits from local jurisdiction(s).
                   •   Obtain Quality Level "D" as-built/record drawings from Client and Utility Owners.



                                                                                                 f nrf' l,11, ,·-Chn ,nl Sir,, c I•l/l/l
              Rl5f 10 ii It CHALLENGE
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-83B0-8744F9D548FS

            Beng~IBlvd.; 2160 East to City Hall
            Page 2 of7

                  •      Identify and record surface appu1tenances for subsurfoce utilities, i.e. manholes, pedestals,
                         etc.
                  •      Qu.i.lity Level "C & B" Designation efforts will be performed with electromagnetic (EM)
                         detection equipment including but not limited to a Vivax VM8 I0, Vivax vLoc Pro2,
                         Magnowand ID 2100 and Pipehom 800. The use of EM devices can produce positive res11lts
                         when target utilities are of conductive (metallic) material.
                  •      For Quality Level "B'' Designation efforts of nonconductive materials such as PVC, Asbestos
                         Cement, Terracotta, and Plastic pipes. SUE techuicians will utilize an LMXl00 250 MHZ
                         grouud penetrating radar (GPR) unit that will provide the opportunity to detect utilities of
                         non-conductive material ns well as undocumented utilities.
                   •     Only conununications lines are included as part of this scope of work.
                   •     KCl will attempt to achieve Quality Level B for conununicatious subsurface utilities. Where
                         KCI is unable to attain Quality Level B or C, subsurface utilities will be categorized Quality
                         Level D based on Utility Agency/Owner records.
                   •     KCl will uti.lize the ProStar, PointMan application for GPS centric field data collection to
                         collect precision and pedigreed information on the Quality Level C & B data. 1bis
                         infonnation can be utilized by the surveyor if completed under their direct supervision.
                   •     Produce electronic field sketch (not to scale) of utilities detected and surface facilities.
                   •     QA/QC Designation field sketch against Quality Level "D" asbuilt/record drawings.
                   •     Coordinate with the project surveyor as needed for collection of Designating reference points
                         nnd surface utility appurtenances.
                   •     QA/QC Designation PointMan data and electronic field sketch against Quality Level "D"
                         asbuilt/record drawings and surveyors field notes.

             Quality Level A
             KCI will complete up to five (5) utility test holes via vacmuu excavation methods at locations to be
             detemiined at a later date.

             KCI \viii complete the test hole work as follows:
                   •      Produce aod obtain uecessary encroachment permits from local jurisdiction to perfonn the
                          Work within right-of-way.
                   •      Coordinate with a local traffic control provider to produce traffic control plnns and secure
                          approved traffic control permits from localjurisdiction.
                   •      Coordinate the set-up and breakdown of traffic control devices at test hole locations.
                   •      Layout test tole locations in the field using various pieces of geophysical locating equipment
                          and processes, i.e. electromagnetic, ground penetrating radar, asbuilt plans, etc.
                   •      Notify and pre-mark rest hole locations for Blue Stakes of Utah 811 Call-Before-You-Dig
                          service 48 hours before any excavation.




              RIS E 10   rt IE CHALLENGE                                                                          \\"IIW . KL I.C0~I
Docuslgn Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-83B0-B744F9D54BF5


             Bengal Blvd.: 2160 East to City Hall
             Page 3 of7

                 •    Removal of pavement and concrete surfaces will be accomplished by use ofa 10" diameter
                      core drilling process.
                 •    Use air vacuwn excavation methods to excavate and expose targeted utility.
                 •    Record utility data: type, depth, approximate size and mate1ial as readily obtainable. If the
                      utility is a duct bank or encased, KCI will attempt to record top, bottom, width and
                      configuration.
                 •    Backfill test holes located in naturnl ground with native material excavated from the hole and
                      compacted pneumatically in one-foot lifts.
                 •    Backfill test holes located in the roadway (asphalt or concrete) with CLSM (typically 60 PSI
                      APWA Mix Flowable Fill) as required by pem1itting agency.
                 •    Restoration of test holes within pavement/concrete core drilled surfaces will be accomplished
                      based on the agency pennit requirements using Utilicor Technologies; UtilibondTM bonding
                      agent.
                  •   Coordinate with the project surveyor as needed for collection of test hole reference points.

             DELIVERABLES
             A utility investigation report, signed and sealed, will be delivered per ASCE 38-22. The report will
             include the following:
                  •   A SUE plan that depicts the QLD/QLC/QLB utility mapping resulting from the completed
                      field investigation, as well as the QLA Test Hole data using the current required CADD
                      Standards.
                  •   A Test Hole Data Report in a Portable Document Fonnat (.pdf) for each completed location
                      and a combined spreadsheet including X, Y aud Z coordinates. The report shall include test
                      bole number and date of completion, approximate plan and section view (not to scale) of utility
                      and test hole location in relationship to the ex.isting roadway and ground surface, collected
                      utility datn: type, depth, size and material as readily obtainable, nnd utility photos where
                      obtaiuable at exposed locations.
                  •    Methods used to collect and depict subsurface utility infomiation.
                  •    A contact list of utility owners or other entities providing utility information within tbe project
                       limits and tile results of the contact.
                  •    Types of equipmeul used to collect infom1ation.
                  •    Utilities located and documented along with type, attlibutes, etc.
                  •    A Geophysical Search plan including areas searched, not searched aud suspected areas.
                  •    Linear feet designated, the number oftest holes excavated and any other pettinent infonuation.
                  •    Problems encountered, U11Iesolved issues, and inconclusive or conflicting infonuation.
                  •    Any effo1ts or actions taken to identify ownership ofunknown utilities.
                  •    Recommendation of any additional work.



              Rl'iE 10 Tl IE CHALLENGE
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-B380-B744F90548FS


             Bengnl Blvd.: 2160 East lo Cily Hall
             Page 4 of7



             KCI recommends the opportunity to review the draft utility files, as prepared by others, in order to
             check that these files and resulting utility data appear consistent with the work performed by KCI.

             SCHEDULE

             Designating Quality Levels D. C & B
             Field investigative services will commence within a mutually agreed upon time and upon receiving the
             following: signed agreement, notice to proceed from the Client, receipt ofany applicable encrortchment
             / traffic control pennits and available utility records and maps from Client. KCI will notify Consultant
             of any delays due to Client or pennitting office. KCI will provide au updated schedule should delays
             beyond its control significantly disrnpt the originally agreed upon schedule.

             Test Hole Quality Level A
             Field services will commence within a mutually agreed upon time and upon receiving the following:
             test hole locations, notice to proceed from Client, receipt of any applicable encroachment / traffic
             control pem1its, and available utility records and maps from Client. KCI will notify Consultant of any
             delays due to Client or permitting office. KCI will provide an updated schedule should delays beyond
             its control significantly disrupt the 01iginally agreed upon schedule.

             ASSUMPTIONS, EXCLUSIONS. AND CAVEATS

                 •   All work within public right of way will be pennitted thru the appropriate jurisdiction.
                 •    Access to private pro petties will be coordinated by Client when necessary.
                 •   Client will coordinate clear access lo work area and utility manholes/vaults when necessary.
                 •    Pennit and inspection fees \viii be waived by owner ofjw·isdiction.
                 •    Survey costs are not included in this proposal.
                 •    Work \vill be completed during regular business hours.
                 •    Professional engineering seal only applies to Subsurface Utility Engineering data.
                 •    Utility 3D Modeling is not included in this scope of service.
                 •    If any available utility records/maps have been collected by Client, they will be provided to
                      KCI prior to the stnrt of the field investigation.
                 •    Client will provide existing topo base map (dgn/dwg format) if available.
                 •    Designation and test hole reference points will be surveyed by the project surveyor to the
                      project control network provided by Client. Project Surveyor will provide a utility data file
                      using current required CADD standards depicting the utility lines resulting from the survey.
                 •    Measurement of utility size will be completed by hand measurements and will be recorded as
                      Nominal Pipe Size (NPS). The nominal size may not match the outside dimension of the utility
                      but will be within the nominal size standardized dimensions.




             RISE TO fl IL CHALLENGE
Dacuslgn Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-B744F90548F5


             Bengol Blvd.; 2160 East to City Hall
             Page 5 of7

                 •    If pavement/concrete restorntion other than the coring process previously described is required
                      by local jurisdiction(s), KCI will notify Consultant prior to any services being performed and
                      obtain approval for additional costs.
                 •    Test hole size measurements and centerline of utility and stmctures over 24" are difficult to
                      obtain due to the small size of the test hole excavation. The nominal pipe size of these larger
                      diameter pipes/stmctures are considered approximate unless an additional test hole is
                      performed, which can be done as Additional Work.
                 •    Due to the small size of the test hole excavation, it is difficult to obtain measurement on more
                      than one utility per test hole. KCI will obtain information on multiple utilities when possible.
                 •    No guarantee can be made tl1'1t locating the top, bottom, width and configuration of duct bank
                      utilities or slurry/concrete encased utilities can be achieved, due to limited visual ability within
                      standard test hole size and existing ground conditions for visual verification.
                 •    No guarantee can be made that all utilities will be discovered and located, due to the many
                      variables such as materials, depth, signal interference, lack of utility record infonnation and
                      environmental factors .
                 •    Nonmetallic utilities such as PVC, asbestos cement, terracotta, and plastic pipes are considered
                      nonconductive and cannot be traced with electromagnetic designating instrumentation.
                 •    Not included in this scope are sprinkle lines, laterals, service lines under l.75", traffic sensor
                      loops and private lighting (unless it has a meter).
                 •    Ground penetrating radar (GPR) equipment will be used in an attempt to discover and locate
                      noumetallic/nonconductive utilities.
                 •    Various factors can affect GPR results, such as pipe size, depth, and most importantly
                      environmental factors such as soil conditions and subsurface ground water. No guarantee can
                      be made that all nonmetallic utilities will be discovered and located.
                 •    If removal and disposal of excavated soils to a landfill or durnpsite are required, KCI will notify
                      Consultant p1ior to any services being performed and obtain approval for additional costs.
                 •    Client's project design team will select the Test Hole locations and, for each phase, be given
                      to KCI all at one time.
                 •    Test Hole standard bill rate is based on a maximum depth of7.00' . If the hole exceeds 7.00'
                      au additional per foot charge applies.
                 •    Use of this service does not relieve others of their responsibility to notify Blue Stakes of Utah,
                      Call-Before-You-Dig prior to any excavation.
                 •    The Service Agreement (Proposal) does not include prevailing wage rates or project labor
                      agreements rates (PLA).
                 •    Current standards, requirements and available infonnation apply to this proposal.
                 •    Standard permitting process and times to obtain are in effect.




             r<1SE ft) Tl I[ CHALLENGE                                                                         \l"\\' \1 . 1,.t I. CO~!
Docusign Envelope ID: 2 I 67C085-06E4-8366-8380-B 744F90548F5


             Bengnl Blvd.; 2160 East to City Hall
             Page 6 of7

              FEES AND PAYMENTS

              The following fees are for the perfonrnmce of the Services li sted io the Scope of Services above. The
              fees listed io this section do not cover any Additional Services, or any other services that are not
              specifically described as part of the Services.

              Based upon currently available infonnation, KCI estimates that the cost of the Services will be
              approximately $17,228.74. 111c fo llowing list subdivides this cost estimnte into individual cost
              estinmtes for each component of the Services.

                Designating Two Man Crew                                5,000 i         S1.10 perfoot                  S5,500.00
                Project Professional Engineer                            4      ~    S:!-19. 11 perbour                 S996.-l~
                Project ~li!llager                                       -I     ~    S~06.90 pa boll!                   SS:!7.60
                Project Assistant                                        -I     ~     S73.~ perboU1                      S313 .76
                Pamit - Cottonwood Heights                                I     'g    Reimbursable at actual cost          S0.00
                Traffic Control PJ.am•                                          @.     Reimburs.ible ill actual cost      SS0.00
                Traflic Control Set-ups•                                        ·~    Reimbursable 31 actual cost        S750.00
                                                                                                             TOTAL     5S,467.SO
                •~o nighrwork has btto includtd in these com.

                Test Hole Kon-P.r.ing Surface Quality Level "A·                 E S650.00 p;,r hole                     S650.00
                Test Hole Pa,·ed Surface Quality LC'\·cl "A' w i Core     -t    ~    SS00.00 ,per hole                 S3.~00.00
                Additional Core                                           I     ~    S150.00 per hole                    S150.00
                Additional Footage - 7.00 feet                            5     'g    S95.00 per foot                    S475.00
                Project Professional Engineer                             :!    ~    S249. tl ,per hour                  S49S.2!
                Project ~laaag;,r                                         4     ·S   S~06.90 per hour                    SS27.60
                Field I echnician                                         6     ~    S125.01 ,per hour                   S750. 1~
                Permit - Cottonwood Hcights                                     ~     Rdmbursable at actual cost           S0.00
                Traflic Control Plaru •                                   2     ~     Reimbursable a.I actual cost       S160.00
                Traffic Control Set-ups•                                  ::!   @     Reimbursable at actual c-o st    Sl,300.00
                lwport Backfill - Flowablc Fill per load"                       @      Rdmbursable al actuitl cost       Si50.00
                                                                                                TOTAL                  5S,760.94
                                       .~PPRO.\l,\1~ TE COST PER TEST HOLES FOR .-WDfilOX-IL REQUESTS                    $1,752.19
                                                                                             Co:.\IB!l\"ED TOTAL       S17,228. 7-1
                 •No nightwork h.il.5 been included in these costs.




               KCI will submit monthly invoices for the Services and Additional Services rendered and the Direct
               Expenses and Charges incurred.

               Records of KCI's direct labor costs pertinent to KCI's compensation will be kept in nccordaoce with
               generally accepted accoUllting practices. Copies \viii be made available to Client at cost on request
               prior to fin:il payment for KCI's Services.




                    ------ -- - - - -
               RISE 10 Tl IL CHALLENGE
Docusign Envelope ID: 2 167C085-O6E4-8366-8380-B744F9D54BF5


             Seng.ii Blvd.; 2160 East to City Holl
             Page 7 of7

             Changed conditions or additional requirements may result in an adjustment to estimated fees and/or
             schedules. Any estimate made by KCI to Client of the anticipated fees or completion schedule for its
             Services is understood to be informational only. KCl does not guarantee the accuracy of fee estimates,
             shall not be bound by the fee estimates as limits on the nmount to be expended and charged in
             completion of the Services or any component thereof, and shall bill and be paid for fees that exceed
             these fee estimates as a result of the changed conditions or additional requirements.

             FEES AND PAYMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL SERVICES

             Fees and payments for Additional Services shall be in addition to any fees and payments for the
             Services and shall be billed and paid on the same fee and payment terms described for the Services or
             as mutually agreed upo n in writing when the Additional Services are ordered by the Client.

             CONCLUSION
             KCI welcomes the opportunity to collaborate with Lochner on the Bengal Blvd.; 2160 East to City
             Hall Project. The KC[ point of contact CPOC") if you have ques tions about the Proposal or nuy other
             attacluneot is Elisha Ritchie, Senior Project Manager/ Utah Practice Leader, who may be contacted at
             either 801.910.1933 or elisha.ritchic@kci.com.

             Respectfully,

              ~~ - ~
              Elisha Ritchie
              Utah Practice Leader


              Attachments: E:>.hibit A - Project Limits
              pc: Viucent Reger, KC! nnd Proposal File




                                                                                               l:111plo1.-r•Oll'11t'cl Shu ,· / <lti,~

               RIS~ TO II IL C HA LLENGE
                                                                                 •
                                                                                       . . -.,.___,
                                                                                       # ......   '   •      ~,
                                                                             '".JI!'-             ~        ...., ,

                                                                             ,;:\ . ~. r;
                                                                                     .:,_:i,-~•.~I          I
                                                                             • ••  '":>     p     ~
                                                                                . 'j c. ◄1 ·;
                                                                                ..

                                                                                 ...
                                                                                        <,.
                                                                                             ,· .
                                                                                            .,_., 1 •
'             ,..                                                            .                                              i
                                                                             ·1            •                                .
                                                                                                                         t
          ·-:-, >J

    ~           ·:1•                                                                     b.• fl                             .
                                                                                                                       ·;
 .
              -:-:?"
                    --
                    ..
                          • j
                                                                                                      '-                        '
                                                                                                                     :·,,f· a I ..

                    .    p                                                                ..
                                                                                       Ii •




                                                                             h




                                          . ..
    I
                                                                        ,.
 .                                                ~
                                                         "- I
                                                        J:7,    •
                                                                        I
                                                                                     I
=                                             .,.. .
1:..~
r-l"i'
                                  ,
                                      ~
                                          ~
                                                   .
                                                       ~·~      '~
                                                                    -
                                                                             I
i~~ID~  ,.,              J :...




~11·,: (
n((
•. "ijj..,
 I >-
 ' ~c
 I ·tc
J' u)(
~ 8_JJ
                I
Docusign Envelope ID: 21 67C085-D6E4-8366-B380-8744F9D548F5




                                                                                             1.-: _.., ·; ·1'ir!.·' l 11; i i., 6..t'.1:J , ;... ,_.,!,~ W~
            ~ , MERIDIAN                                                                                           ~~;•,11,I· _;LI J ;:! ·, ! fl ;~.t 1;•..'~•

                        ENGIN E ERING, INC.
                                                                                              I ~ l ? r.f.'"1 I 'ti ~. • :: 11'11 !_.l.,.:, i J 1~
                                                                                                                    .--· •.   ; .1.=1 :i1:11c111 . .1::,,m




                      February 19, 2026



                      HW Lochner
                      2755 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 560
                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84121

                      Attention:       Brandon Cloward, PE

                      Re:              Scope and fee to provide Surveying and Existing Right of Way Services

                      Subject:         Cottonwood Heights - Bengal Boulevard



                      Pursuant to your request that Meridian Engineering, Inc. (Meridian) provide surveying and
                      existing right of way services on the above-mentioned project, we respectfully offer the
                      attached scope of work services with associated fees.

                      Thank you for this opportunity and if you have any questions. or need any other
                      assistance, don't hesitate to contact me.




                      ~~
                      Michael Nadeau, PLS/CFedS
                      Meridian Engineering, Inc.
                I
Docusign Envelope ID: 2167C085-D6E4-8366-83B0-B744F9D548F5




                     SCOPE OF WORK
                     1) DESIGN TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEYS (See Last Page for Limits)· Task items include:
                     a. Meridian will utilize the survey control established under the previous HW Lochner contract to
                          perpetuate the existing coordinate system and minimize any potential coordinate system
                          conflicts.
                     b. Survey will include the following items inside the project limits (data extracted from previous
                        flight data under a separate contract):
                              i.   Curb, gutter and sidewalks, driveways and misc. concrete pads.
                             ii.   Edge of pavements, visible pavement crowns, signage, structural and landscape
                                   walls, fences and barriers.
                            iii.   Grade changes, breaks, toe and top of slopes, open ditches, drainage areas and other
                                   grade transitions.
                            iv.    Striping on cross section intervals and at the beginning or ending locations of stripe
                                   types.
                             v.    Significant trees (6" diameter and larger). Outline clusters of smaller trees and shrubs.
                            vi.    Visible surface utilities: sewer manholes, sewer clean-outs, storm drain manholes,
                                   water meters, water valves, fire hydrants, gas valves, gas meters (where pipe comes
                                   out of the ground), communications manholes, telephone boxes, transformers, utility
                                   poles (with cross arms, guys and line sag elevations when crossing the route with the
                                   current temperature and time added as a note), irrigation boxes, weirs, culverts, visible
                                   piping, sprinkler control boxes, signal boxes, other surface utilities, etc.
                           vii.    Mailboxes , commercial signs (with overhangs) and building fronts.
                           viii.   Found boundary evidence to aid in developing the existing right-of-way (Exrow) such
                                   as curb or sidewalk rivets, property monuments, right of way markers, etc.
                            ix.    Invert sketches are not a part of this Scope of Work.


                      2) SUE SURVEYS - Task items include:
                      a. Meridian will provide SUE Surveys for 9,000 lineal feet of QL-B utility designation and Surveys
                          for 10 testholes. Meridian will work with Lochner subconsultant KCI Technologies for this task.


                      3) PROPERTY MATRIX/EXISTING RIGHT OF WAY. Task items include:
                      a. Conduct ownership deed and subdivision plat research within the Salt Lake County
                          Recorder's Office . Conduct a complete title abstract search to determine fee ownership of all
                          parcels within the project limits. Retrieve copies of subdivision plats and road dedication plats.
                      b. Conduct previously recorded boundary survey research with the Salt Lake County Surveyor's
                          Office. This information will aid in placing subdivisions and private survey data within the right
                          of way drawings.



                                                                                                      Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 2
                 I
Docuslgn Envelope ID: 2 167C085-D6E4-8366-8380-8744F9DS48F5




                      c. There are approximately nine (9) parcels inside the limits of this scope of work.
                      d. Meridian will provide a current MicroStation drawing of the above survey information for the
                         site development of the subject parcel.
                      e. Cottonwood Heights City Hall and Brighton High School are not a part of this Work Plan.
                             Those parcels were determined under a separate contract with HW Lochner and Meridian's
                             survey team will utilize the parcels data from that project for this project.
                      f.     Right of Way Design is not anticipated with this Scope of Work.


                      PROJECT FEE
                      Meridian proposes to provid e the above defined scope of work services for a lump sum price
                      shown below. The breakdown of our costs is as follows:
                           TASK                                                    FEE SCHEDULE
                             1) Design Surveys (Point Cloud Extraction)            $ 4,475.00
                             2) SUE QL-A and 8 Surveys (9,000 ft & 10 Testholes) $3,875.00
                             3) Property Matrix/Existing Right of Way (9 Parcels)  $4,250.00
                                                                       Grand Total $12,600.00


                      PROJECT SCHEDULE
                      Upon notice to proceed (NTP) and weather depending, Meridian will schedule the extra extraction
                      needed for this scope of the project. Meridian will update and complete the base mapping within
                      2 weeks and the Existing ROW will be completed and delivered with 2 weeks from delivery of the
                      extopo files. SUE Surveys will be dependent on KC!'s schedule.


                      PROJECT LOCATION AND TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY LIMITS:




                                                                                                         Meridian Engineering, Inc. I 3
Da:imqn Env.elcpe ID: 21 6'1C0SS.D6E◄-81a5-S380-874-4F90548F5


                   IT•sk     irask Name                                !Duration               ls,on            lf;nlsh   IPredecenors          Re-source Nam~s
                   !Mode
                    ""+      Procurement                                17 days                Tue 2/17/26 Wed 3/11/26

                   -..-♦
                             NTP                                        o days                 Wed 3/ll/26Wed 3/11/261
                             Scoping                                    2S days                Wed 3/ll/2£Wed 4/15/2! 2
                   -..          Kickoff Meeting                         o days
                   -..-..                                                                      Wed 3/ll/26Wed 3/11/26                                                 /11




                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                Survey                                  15 davs                Thu 3/12/26 Wed 4/1/26 4

                   -.
                                Existing riEht-of-way idcn1ificatio 15 days
                                Design Updates                          10 days
                                                                                               Thu 3/12/26 Wed 4/1/26 4
                                                                                               Thu 4/2/26 Wed 4/15/265,6
                                                                                                                                                                      =i       1==.,
                   -.           landscape Concept                       10 days               Thu 3/12/26 Wed 3/25/264
                                                                                                                                                                      =-
                   -..          Site Visit                              l day                 Thu 3/12/26 Thu 3/12/26 4
       10          -..          SUE Designating QL D-B                  15 days               Thu 3/12/26 Wed 4/1(26 4
                                                                                                                                                                  I


       11
       12
                  -..
                   -..
                                Scoping Meeting
                             Prcllmin;,ry Oes(gn
                                                                      Odays
                                                                      75 days
                                                                                              Wed 4/15/26Wed 4/15/267                                                                  4/15
                                                                                              Thu 4/16/26 Wed 7 /29/2£3
       13

                  -..-♦
                                30 model                              10 days                 Thu 4/16h6 Wed 4/29/26                                                                ~
      14                                                              io days
                                Roadway Design                                                Thu 4/30/26 Wed S/27/2613                                                                  ~
      15           ~           Signing & Stripins Design              20days                  Thu 5/28/26 Wed 6/24/2614
                  -..-..
                                                                                                                                                                                               9
      16                        Utility Desir.n                       30 days                 Thu 5/28/26 Wed 7 /8/26 14
      17                       lighting Design                        20 days                 Thu 5/28/26 Wed 6/24/2614
                  -..
      18
      19

      20
                  -♦
                  -♦
                               LandsG1pe Design
                               Cost Estimate
                               City Review
                                                                      20 days
                                                                      5 days
                                                                      10 days
                                                                                              Thu 5/28/26 Wed 6/24/2614
                                                                                              Thu 7/9/26 Wed 7/l.5/2514,15,16,17,1B
                                                                                              Thu 7/16/26 Wed 7/29/2619
                                                                                                                                                                                               r===JL,;:=,          I


      21                       60% Design Review Meeting              o days
                  -..""+
                                                                                              Wed 7/29/26Wed 7/29/2620                                                                                                  7/29
      22                    Final Design                              65 days                 Thu 7 /30/26 Wed 1D/28/ll2
                  -.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t          '
      23                       Roadway Design                         20 days                 Thu 7/30/26 Wed 8/26/2621
      2•          -.           Signing & Striping Design              20 days                 Thu 7/30/26 Wed 8/26/2621
                               Utility Design
                  -♦                                                  20 days                 Thu 7/30/26 Wed B/26/2621

   1+1
   iD
                  -.
                 -♦
                 -♦
                               Uehting Design
                               Landscape Design
                               Cost Estimate
                                                                      20 day,
                                                                      20 days
                                                                     5 daVS
                                                                                              Thu 7/30/26 Wed B/26/26 21
                                                                                              Thu 7/30/26 Wed B/26/2621
                                                                                              Thu B/27/26 Wed 9/2/26 23,24,25,26,27                                                                                            ~I
   291           -➔            City Review                           10 days                  Thu 9/3/26 Wed 9/16/2628                                                                                                             :..,.,.,
            j    -.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~~
     30                        90% Design Revtew Meeting             O days                   Wed 9/16/26 Wed 9/16/2629
     31     l    -..           100% Design Updates                   10 days                  Thu 9/17/26 Wed 9/30/2630
     32
     33
                 -..-..       Cottonwood Hctghts: Advertjsing 20 days
                               Bid opening                           O days
                                                                                              Thu 10/1/26 Wed 10/28/2 31
                                                                                              Wed 10/28/2 Wed 10/28/232                                                                                                                       . ~ 10/28




                                          r ..•                 IW-                       ➔    PtoJM SumniJtY                         M11r111.:ilTuli:            Sr11t-onfy              C       Oe-Jdllne             •
   Project: Bengal Blvd Phase 1 Tr
   Oa1e: Mon 2/23/26
                                     I    Split
                                          lo!°ileJIO,W          ♦
                                                                              ....,.. ,
                                                                , ........... ,                1n«1ive Ta&k
                                                                                               lnacrWt> Mi!esron~
                                                                                                                                      ou,.,llon·onty
                                                                                                                                      M•nl.UI Summuy Rollup
                                                                                                                                                                  fllllsh·or\ly
                                                                                                                                                                  £.wrcm.Jl Tasts
                                                                                                                                                                                          J       Pr09"~U
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Manuai Progren:
                                                                                              lrH1etlvc Summ.1ry                  1   M.:inuid Summ1,y            &rrtNI MilL"Stone       ,,
                                          '"'"'"'""
                             7.6
                    Resolution 2026-32
By this resolution the council vvill consent to the n1anager's
   reappointment of three men1bers of the city's historic
                         committee.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION No. 2026-32

                   A RESOLUTlON CONSENTING TO APPOINTMENTS TO
                   THE COTTONWOOD HErGHTS HrSTORlC COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, section 2.140.602 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTSCODE OF ORDINAl"ICES (the
"Code") establishes the "Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee" (the "Committee") for the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

        WHEREAS, Code §2. l 40.602(A) provides that the Committee shall consist of a minimum
of five members and a maxi.mum of eleven members who are City residents with a demonstrated
interest, competence or knowledge in history or historic preservation, and who are appointed for
staggered three-year terms; and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140.104 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
"Council"), and that the temlS of office of the members shall be staggered as necessary so that the
tenns of office ofapproximately one-third of the members expire each year; and

         WHEREAS, the Council met on 19 May 2026 to, among other things, (a) consider the
t-,,tanager's reappointment to the Committee of Maria Crowder. James Kichas and Mark Lentz
effective immediately, for ten11s of office expiring on l January 2029; (b) ratify and consent to the
current composition of membership of the Committee; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council bas determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety an.d welfare of the citizens of the City to consent to such
reappointments to the Committee as proposed by the Manager;

        NO\V THEREfORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city ofCottomvood
Heights that the Council hereby (a) consents to the above reappointments to the Committee
effective immediately, and (b) ratifies, gives advice and consents to the status of the following
individuals as all the cu1rent members of the Committee for the terms of office set forth opposite
each name:

        Name                                             Term Expires

        Daniel Mackintosh                                1 January 2027
        Hazel Peterson                                   l January 2027
        Stephen Walker                                   1 January 2027

        Beverly Beckstead                                l January 2028
        Brnce Lubeck                                     I January 2028
        Ken Verdoia                                      I January 2028

        Maria Crowder                                     I January 2029
        James Kichas                                      l January 2029
    Mark Lentz                                     I January 2029

    This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-32, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

    PASSED AND APPROVED effective 19 May 2026.


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


                                         By:
B y : - - - - - - -- - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                               - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -
                                               Gay Lynn Bennion. Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay _
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay _
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 19th day of May 2026.

     RECORDED th.is _ day of May 2026.




                                               2
