COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AGENDA
June 3, 2026
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Hearing Officer will convene on Wednesday, June 3, 2026,
at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for an Administrative
Hearing Meeting.

The meeting will begin at 12:00 p.m. in City Hall Room 5 (Council Chambers).

12:00 p.m. ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MEETING

        1.0 Business Items
                1.1 Project CUP-26-009
                Public hearing request from Stephanie Van Drimmelen for a wall height extension at 6769 Walker
                Mill Dr.

                1.12 Project CUP-26-010
                Public hearing request from Stephanie Van Drimmelen (on behalf of the Liu family) for a wall
                height extension at 6789 Walker Mill Dr.


        2.0 Consent Agenda
                2.1 Approval of Administrative Hearing Officer Minutes from June 3, 2026

                (The Administrative Hearing Officer will approve the minutes of June 3, 2026, meeting after the
                following process is met. The City Recorder will prepare the minutes and email them to the
                Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will have five days to review the minutes and provide any
                changes to the Recorder. If, after five days there are no changes, the minutes will stand
                approved. If there are changes, the process will be followed until the changes are made and the
                hearing officer is in agreement, at which time the minutes shall be deemed approved.)

        3.0 Adjourn


Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order:
    1. Staff Presentation
    2. Applicant Presentation
    3. Open Public Hearing (if item has been noticed for public hearing). Each speaker during the public hearing
       will be limited to three minutes.
    4. Close Public Hearing
    5. Administrative Hearing Officer Deliberation
    6. Administrative Hearing Officer Decision

Administrative Hearing applications may be tabled if: 1) Additional information is needed in order to act on the
item; OR 2) The Hearing Officer feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the
Officer is ready to make a decision. The Hearing Officer may carry over agenda items to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.
Submission of Written Public Comment
Written comments on any agenda item should be received by the Cottonwood Heights Community and
Economic Development Department no later than 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, June 2, 2026, a day before the
meeting. Comments should be emailed to Planning@ch.utah.gov . After the public hearing has been closed, the
Community and Economic Development Department will not accept any additional written or verbal comments
on the application.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, May 21, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front
foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.



DATED THIS 21 DAY OF MAY 2026
Attest: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
June 3rd, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-25-009

Subject Property:
6769 Walker Mill Dr

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Wall Height
Extension

Property Owner:
Stephanie Van Drimmelen

Applicant:
Stephanie Van Drimmelen

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions
                                                               Aerial View


 This aerial image shows the subject property in context of the neighborhood. The blue line shows the
 location of the proposed wall height extension. Red lines show the other property lines of the lot.




APPLICANT’S PROPOSAL
The applicant proposes constructing an 8-foot-tall Trex composite fence along the proposed eastern
property line and portions of the northern and southern property lines as part of an ongoing lot line
adjustment process involving the purchase of approximately 30 feet of adjacent HOA common area. The
purpose of the fence is to improve privacy, reduce noise from the adjacent HOA tennis/pickleball court,
and create better separation between the backyard and the HOA common area. Due to the higher
elevation of the HOA common area and neighboring southern property, the applicant states that a
standard 6-foot fence would not adequately screen views or mitigate noise impacts.
                                                  Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                            Project CUP-26-009 – 6769 Walker Mill Dr

BACKGROUND
The HOA adjacent to the subject property is currently in the process of selling approximately 30 feet of
existing common area land located immediately east of the subject property to the homeowner as part
of a lot line adjustment. The adjacent property owner to the south is also purchasing approximately 30
feet of HOA land. Both the HOA common area to the east and the neighboring property to the south are
situated at a higher elevation than the subject property.

The property to the north is not participating in the land purchase. As a result, HOA-owned common
area will remain directly adjacent to the northern portion of the subject property and will wrap around
the northern edge of the area being acquired by the homeowner.

The applicant proposes to construct an 8-foot-tall Trex composite fence, measured from grade, along
the proposed new eastern property line established through the lot line adjustment process. The fence
would extend along portions of the north and south property lines to connect to the existing Trex
fencing. Proposed materials and design will match the existing Trex fencing to maintain a consistent
appearance.

Staff find that the proposed fence will not interfere with public access, traffic visibility, or neighborhood
circulation because it is located within the rear yard area adjacent to HOA common land. Staff further
find that, due to the elevation difference between the subject property and the adjacent HOA land and
neighboring property, a standard 6-foot fence would not adequately address the applicant’s stated
privacy concerns or sufficiently reduce noise impacts associated with the nearby tennis/pickleball court.




                                           Proposed fence design




                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                          Project CUP-26-009 – 6769 Walker Mill Dr

Zoning
The zoning designation of the property is R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family). Fences and walls may be
allowed to a maximum height of eight feet in any zone as a conditional use, and up to 12 feet as a
conditional use with neighbor consent, as outlined in section 19.76.050.E City Code, shown below.
As this proposal is only requesting eight feet, neighbor consent was not required.

19.76.050(E)
       Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height of eight
       feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property owner in
       accordance with subsections (a) and (b) below:
           a. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and adverse
                nature relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or eliminated by the
                increased height of the requested fence; and
           b. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the circumstances.
                Any such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or his designee following
                an administrative hearing preceded by all required notifications. A building permit shall
                be required for all fences approved as a conditional use.
       Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a maximum
       height of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has received
       conditional use approval in accordance with subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).



IMPACT ANALYSIS

Staff Analysis: Staff finds the increased fence height proposed by this application to be a reasonable
privacy and screening enhancement from the adjacent HOA property.

Noticing
Property owners within 300 feet of the subject property have been mailed notices. Notices were mailed,
as well as posted on noticing websites and the City Hall bulletin board, on May 18, 2026.

Conditional Use Permit Determining Criteria
Staff have found enough evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit have
been satisfied (see Section 19.84.080 CH Code).


FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

    1. There is clear and convincing evidence shown by the property owner that the request will
       provide reasonable additional privacy; (19.76.050.E.3.)

    2. That construction of such wall and fence is the most reasonable solution under the
       circumstances. The additional fence height is necessary to ensure mitigation of aforementioned
       issues.

    3. The conditional use permit is granted by the director or his designee following an administrative
       hearing preceded by all required notifications. (19.76.050.E.3.)
                                                                                              Page 3 of 4
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                          Project CUP-26-009 – 6769 Walker Mill Dr


   4. The evidence presented with the proposed conditional use has been found to be compliant with
      the requirements of section 19.84.080 (Conditional Uses – Determination) and section
      19.76.050.E (Miscellaneous – Fences).

   5. There is sufficient evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit as
      outlined in Section 19.84.080 CH Code have been satisfied.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

Approval of the requested fence height extension to allow an 8-foot-tall fence is recommended, subject
to the following conditions:

    1. The associated lot line adjustment shall be finalized and officially recorded prior to issuance of
       any permits or commencement of construction for the proposed fence.
    2. The applicant shall obtain all required building permits and inspections for the proposed fence in
       accordance with applicable municipal codes and development standards.
    3. The fence shall be constructed substantially consistent with the submitted plans and materials,
       including the proposed Trex composite design and connection to existing fencing along the
       north and south property lines.
    4. The approved fence shall remain entirely within the finalized property boundaries established
       through the lot line adjustment process.




Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve item CUP-26-009 pursuant to the conditions of approval outlined in the item’s staff
report
    • Add any additional conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny item CUP-26-009 based on the following findings…”
    • List reasons for denial…



Attachments
   1.   Proposed fence design
   2.   Proposed lot line adjustment
   3.   Site photos
   4.   19.76.050 Miscellaneous
   5.   19.84 Conditional Uses




                                                                                             Page 4 of 4
                                                                             CFC Fences & Decks
                                                                   2250 W Center St BLDG 2, Springville, UT 84663
                                                                   Utah County: (801) 374-6428 Salt Lake County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                   Summit County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                    www.FenceAndDeckUtah.com
                                                                            Fence Project Installation Estimate/Contract
Name: VanDrimmelen, Stephanie (8' Option)                       Email:                     steph6@me.com                        Date:                      03-Feb-26
Job Address 6769 S Walker Mill Dr.                                City:     CW Heights       Zip:            84121              Salesman:                      Steve
Phone #'s                      801-580-7852                         (W)                                                         Referral Source:                 Pre-Customer
Billing Address:                                                  City:              ST:    Zip:
                           Diagram (not to scale: reference only)                                                            Project Details

                                                                                                                 Access
                                                                                                                                    [II        Bobcat      □ □Hand         Both

                                                                                                                 Misc.
                                                                                                                                    □            Wall       □        Flat Mount

                                                                                                                 Misc.              □          Box Posts    □        Extra Footers

                                                                                                               Core Cuts
                                                                                                                                    □            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No
                                                                                                       Future Return/ Multiple
                                                                                                                Trips
                                                                                                                                    □            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No

                                                                                                           Removal & Disposal
                                                                                                                                    0            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No

                                                                                                            Yard Landscaping      Existing


                                                                                                             Total Foota e                               353'
             Diagram is not to scale and is for reference only.                                                                                [ l Addendum attached
                                                SKETCH/AREA TABLE ADDENDUM
                                                                              SUBJECT INFO
File No.:                        Parcel No.:
Property Address:
City:           County:                               State:                           ZipCode:
Owner:
Client:                        Client Address:
Appraiser Name:                           Inspection Date:
                                                                                   SKETCH




                                                                        Elevation - At rear/East Property Line

                                                                                      105.0'

Height
          8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                 8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                        Height


                                                                                     105.0'
                                                                                     Length - Ground Level




                 Elevation - At North Property Line                                                                         Elevation - At South Property Line

                               30.0'                                                                                                    30.0'

 Height                                                        Height                                                8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                 8.0'
                                                                                                            Height
          8.0'




                                                        8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                        Height


                               30.0'                                                                                                    30.0'

                       Length - Ground Level                                                                                  Length - Ground Level




                                                                                                                                                   Sketch by ApexSketch

                                                                AREA CALCULATIONS SUMMARY
Code                  Description                                              Factor                   Net Size                   Perimeter                      Net Totals




                                                                 © iLOOKABOUT (US) Inc. dba Apex Software                                                                  Page 1
Looking East From Existing Backyard Deck   Looking Southeast From Existing Backyard




Looking Northeast From Existing Backyard    Looking NW Towards New North Property
                                           Line and Existing Fence at N. Property Line




     Looking NE Towards New NEC                    Looking East Towards New
                                                      East Property Line
Looking East Towards New East Property       Looking East Towards Tennis/Pickle Ball
Line and towards Tennis/Pickle Ball Court        Court From New East Property
                                                 Line/Proposed Fence Location




  Looking West From Tennis/Pickle Ball        Looking S Towards New South Property
        Court Towards Subject                                 Line




Looking SE Towards South Property Line      Looking SE Towards Existing Fence Along S.
                Tie-In                                    Property Line
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview


 19.76.050 Miscellaneous

       A. Intersecting streets and clear visibility. In all zones, no obstruction to view in excess of three feet
          in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by public or private
          street property lines and a line connecting them at points 30 feet from the intersection of the
          street lines, except a reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed
          vision to automobile drivers.
       B. Off-site improvements.
                   1. Off-site improvements required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit for
                      all dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and quasi-
                      public uses shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk and asphalt along the entire property line
                      which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at city standards.
                      Vehicular entrances to the property shall be provided as allowed in this code. Height,
                      location, structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum
                      roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the
                      agency concerned.
                   2. Fee-in-lieu of improvements.
                           a. Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such
                              curb, gutter and sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to
                              pay to the city a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as
                              determined by the director. Upon payment of such fee by the developer, the city
                              shall assume the responsibility for future installation of such improvements.
                           b. The fees shall be placed in a special account, and shall credit to such account a
                              proportioned share of interest earned from investment of city monies. Records
                              relating to identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee
                              amounts collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be the
                              responsibility of the department.

       C. Water and sewage facilities. In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve
          the use of sewage facilities, and a sewer, as defined in the health department regulations, is not
          available within 300 feet of property where the building or use is proposed, and all cases where
          a proposed supply of piped water under pressure is not available within 300 feet of property
          where the building or use is proposed,, the alternative sewage disposal and the domestic water
          supply shall comply with requirements of the health department, and the application for a
          building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the health department.
       D. Regulations regarding junk.
                   1. “Junk” means any salvaged or scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags,
                      batteries, paper, wood, trash, plastic, rubber, tires and waste, or other articles or
                      materials commonly designated as junk. Junk, except as provided in Subsections (B) or
                      (C), shall also mean any dismantled, wrecked or inoperable motor vehicles or parts
                      thereof which are stored or parked on property outside of an enclosed building and
                      which remain in such condition for a period of time in excess of 60 days. An automobile,
                      truck or bus shall be considered inoperable if it is not currently registered and licensed in
                      this state or another state.
                   2. One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is not currently licensed
                      and registered in this state or another state but is otherwise operable may be stored on
                      property for a period not to exceed one year if it is secured with the windows closed, the

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous         1/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                     trunk and hood closed and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal;
                     or
                   3. One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is inoperable may be
                      stored in a side yard, except a side yard which faces on a street or a rear yard on
                      property for a period not to exceed one year provided:
                           a. The automobile or truck is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood
                              closed and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal;
                           b. The automobile or truck shall not be visible from any public street; and
                            c. The automobile or truck is entirely concealed by a covering which is maintained
                               in good condition and which does not extend closer to the ground than the lowest
                               point of the vehicle body.

                   4. All existing legal nonconforming motor vehicles as of the effective date of the ordinance
                      codified in this section, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the provisions of this
                      section within one year from the date of the enactment of this section or any amendment
                      thereto.

       E. General height and design regulations for walls, fences and retaining walls.
                   1. Definitions. In this Subsection (E):
                           a. “Fence” means a barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to
                              enclose, screen or separate areas.
                           b. “Fence height” means that a fence or wall shall be measured from the adjacent
                              existing natural grade at the base of the fence or wall, to the top edge of the
                              fence or wall.
                            c. “Fences atop walls” means that if a fence is atop a wall, the total height shall be
                               measured from the base of the wall to the top of the fence.
                           d. “Neighbor consent” means that all neighbors abutting the proposed wall/fence will
                              be required to provide written consent for retaining wall/fence height above eight
                              feet up to 12 feet.
                           e. “Retaining wall” means a structure that is designed and constructed to stabilize
                              two generally horizontal surfaces which are vertically displaced, and which shall
                              be either a landscape retaining wall or structural retaining wall.

                   2. Permitted height. No fence, wall, hedge, retaining wall or vertical combination of these
                      (hereinafter “fence”) may be erected to a height which exceeds the following
                      requirements:
                           a. Front yard. Four feet. Lots that are at least one acre in size and have only one
                              primary residence may erect a fence up to six feet in height. A fence may be
                              erected up to six feet in height along a side lot line in the front yard of a key lot,
                              so long as it abuts the rear lot line of an adjacent lot. Fences/walls in these
                              locations shall not be eligible for a wall height extension.
                           b. Side and rear yards. Six feet.
                            c. Exception. Retaining walls or fencing which comply with the setback
                               requirements for primary structures in the underlying zone, or accessory
                               structures in the underlying zone if wall or fence is in the rear yard may be
                               erected to the height allowed for each respective structure, measured from

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous          2/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                               existing grade. In cases where this provision conflicts with another portion of city
                               code, the more restrictive provision shall apply.

                   3. Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height
                      of eight feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property
                      owner in accordance with Subsections (a) and (b) below:
                             a. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and
                                adverse nature relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or
                                eliminated by the increased height of the requested fence; and
                             b. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the
                                circumstances. Any such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or
                                his designee following an administrative hearing preceded by all required
                                notifications. A building permit shall be required for all fences approved as a
                                conditional use.
                             c. In no case shall a conditional use permit be granted for a wall height extension in
                                the front yard of a property, including key lots.

                   4. Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a
                      maximum height of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has
                      received conditional use approval in accordance with Subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).
                   5. Terracing. If a taller retaining wall is necessitated by an engineering requirement as
                      determined by the city engineer, the retaining wall may be terraced. Terracing shall be
                      limited to three tiers. The horizontal width of the terrace between any two wall sections
                      above existing grade shall be at least ten feet. Terraces created between retaining walls
                      shall be landscaped or revegetated (see diagram).
                   6. Exceptions. Fences, walls, hedges, retaining walls or any vertical combination thereof in
                      the side or rear yard may be constructed to a maximum height of 12 feet without
                      neighbor consent and conditional use approval if the fence is adjacent to property
                      located in a commercial zone or adjacent to a public street.
                   7. Chain link fences. Chain link fences which are not vinyl coated or galvanized shall not be
                      allowed.
                   8. Fences, etc. atop retaining walls. Fences and non-retaining walls shall not be
                      constructed on top of a retaining wall unless the fence and/or non-retaining wall is set
                      back 18 inches for every one foot of vertical height above six feet high. In no
                      circumstance shall the combination of the retaining wall and fence and/or non-retaining
                      wall exceed eight feet without a separation of at least three feet.
                   9. Permit required. A building permit shall be required for any retaining wall over four feet in
                      height from existing grade, and any fence over six feet in height from existing grade.

                     Table 1
                                                      Maximum Residential Fence/Wall Height
                      Height                                   Location                                 Required Approval
                                                               All residential zones, all
                      0-4'                                                                Permitted
                                                               yards
                                                               Side and rear yards, front
                      4-6                                      yards of estate lots and key Permitted
                                                               lots

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous                   3/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                      6-8'                                     Side and rear yards                      Conditional Use
                                                                                                        Conditional  Use   with
                      8-12'                                    Side and rear yards
                                                                                                        Neighbor Consent


                     APPENDIX A
                     Terraced or Tiered Retaining Wall




 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024
 Amended by Ord. 421 on 9/10/2024




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous                         4/4
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview


 19.84 Conditional Uses
 19.84.010 Definition
 19.84.020 Approval Standard
 19.84.030 Site Plan And Permit Required
 19.84.040 Fee
 19.84.050 Application
 19.84.060 Staff Report
 19.84.070 Public Hearing
 19.84.080 Determination
 19.84.090 Effect Of Approval
 19.84.100 Appeals
 19.84.110 Inspection
 19.84.120 Time Limits
 19.84.130 Amendment
 19.84.140 Revocation

 19.84.010 Definition

 A “conditional use” is a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the
 city, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be
 compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.

 19.84.020 Approval Standard

       A. No Presumption of Approval. The listing of a conditional use in any table of permitted and
          conditional uses as found in various chapters of this title does not constitute an assurance or
          presumption that any such conditional use will be approved. Rather, each proposed conditional
          use shall be evaluated on an individual basis, in relation to its compliance with the standards
          and conditions set forth in this chapter and with the standards for the zoning district in which it is
          located, in order to determine whether the conditional use is appropriate at the particular
          location.
       B. Standard for Approval. A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
          proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
          proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental
          effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
          imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
          conditional use may be denied.

 19.84.030 Site Plan And Permit Required

       A. A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in the zoning
          district regulations where they are, or will be, located, and if the use is specified as a conditional
          use elsewhere in this title. Failure to comply with any of the conditions imposed in the permit will
          result in an order to show cause for revocation. The permit may be revoked by the planning
          commission upon evidence that any condition has not been met.
       B. A conditional use has the potential for adverse impact on the use and enjoyment of adjacent
          properties and uses if the proposed conditional use is located and laid out without careful
          planning. Site plan review is a process designed to address such adverse impacts and minimize
          them where possible. Site plan review of development proposals is required for all conditional
          uses in all zoning districts in the city.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses       1/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

 19.84.040 Fee

 The application for any conditional use permit shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee under this
 code.

 19.84.050 Application

       A. The conditional use process is initiated upon submittal of a conditional use permit application to
          the department. The planning commission may authorize the director to grant, attach conditions
          to, or deny conditional use permits, subject to such limitations or qualifications as are deemed
          necessary.
       B. All applications for a conditional use permit shall include:
                   1. The applicant’s name, address, telephone numbers and interest in the property;
                   2. The owner’s name, address and telephone number, if different than the applicant, and
                      the owner’s signed consent to the filing of the application;
                   3. The street address and legal description of the subject property;
                   4. The zoning classification, zoning district boundaries and present use of the subject
                      property;
                   5. A vicinity map with North, scale and date, indicating the zoning classifications and
                      current uses of properties within 300 feet of the boundaries of the subject property.
                      When a conditional use permit will be considered by the planning commission, the
                      application shall also include a current plat map showing the names and addresses of all
                      property owners appearing on the tax rolls of the Salt Lake County Assessor within 300
                      feet of the boundaries of the subject property.
                   6. A plat or a survey of the parcel of land, lots block, blocks, or parts or portions thereof,
                      drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block,
                      blocks, or portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such land;
                   7. The proposed title of the project and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of
                      the architect, landscape architect, planner or engineer on the project;
                   8. A complete description of the proposed conditional use;
                   9. A plan or drawing drawn to scale of twenty feet to the inch (20’ = 1 inch) or larger which
                      includes the following information of the proposed use:
                           a. actual dimensions of the subject property;
                           b. exact sizes and location of all existing and proposed buildings or other structures;
                            c. driveways;
                           d. parking spaces;
                           e. safety curbs;
                            f. landscaping;
                           g. location of trash receptacles;
                           h. drainage features and environmental features; and
                            i. a table showing all land uses and open space with square feet and percentage of
                               total property for each use.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses         2/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

                   10. A traffic impact analysis (when deemed necessary by the department);
                   11. A statement indicating whether the applicant will require a variance in connection with
                       the proposed conditional use permit;
                   12. Envelopes, mailing labels and first class postage for all property owners located within
                       300 feet of the subject property when a conditional use permit will be considered by the
                       planning commission; and
                   13. Such other further information or documentation as the director may deem to be
                       necessary for a full and proper consideration and disposition of the particular application.


 19.84.060 Staff Report

 Once the department has determined the application is complete, a staff report evaluating the
 conditional use application shall be prepared and forwarded to the planning commission.

 19.84.070 Public Hearing

 A public hearing may be held if the chairman of the planning commission deems a hearing to be in the
 public interest.

 19.84.080 Determination

       A. Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a public
          meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other factors. The
          planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use; approve the proposed
          conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions; postpone decision pending
          consideration of additional information to be submitted by the applicant; or deny the proposed
          conditional use.
       B. In approving a conditional use, the planning commission may impose such requirements and
          conditions as it deems necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
          welfare. The planning commission shall only approve with conditions, or deny a conditional use,
          based upon written findings of fact with regard to each of the standards set forth below and,
          where applicable, any special standards for conditional uses set forth in the specific zoning
          district. The planning commission shall not approve issuance of a conditional use permit unless
          the evidence presented is such as to establish the following:
                    1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning
                       district in which it is to be located;
                    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to
                       the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
                       vicinity;
                    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
                       compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
                    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which
                       it is to be located;
                    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated
                       by the conditions imposed;
                    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
                       assured;

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses          3/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

                    7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
                    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
                       imposed on the applicant or owner;
                    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
                   10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
                       development;
                   11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
                       and visual impacts;
                   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
                       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
                       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
                   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will
                       be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
                   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of
                       the property; and
                   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
                   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
                       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.


 19.84.090 Effect Of Approval

 The approval of a proposed conditional use shall not authorize the establishment or extension of any
 use nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or structure,
 but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of applications for any permits or
 approvals that may be required by the city, such as subdivision approval, a building permit, a certificate
 of occupancy, etc.

 19.84.100 Appeals

 Any person aggrieved by a decision of the planning commission regarding the issuance, denial or
 revocation or amendment of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the appeals hearing
 officer, whose decision shall then be final. All appeals to the appeals hearing officer must be in writing
 and filed with the department within 30 days after the date of the decision appealed from. The decision
 of the appeals hearing officer may be appealed to the District Court, provided that such appeal is filed
 with the District Court, with a copy to the director, within 30 days after the decision of the appeals
 hearing officer.

 19.84.110 Inspection

 Following the issuance of a final conditional use permit:

       A. The department may accept an application for approval of a building permit (if applicable), and
          shall ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with the conditional
          use permit, the city’s building code, and any other applicable laws or ordinances.
       B. The director shall make periodic inspections to assure compliance with all applicable conditions
          of approval. An investigation report will be issued to any conditional use permittee that is out of
          compliance. If the discrepancy is not corrected in an allotted time of not less than ten days, then
          an order to show cause will be issued for action by the planning commission.
https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses         4/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

 19.84.120 Time Limits

       A. A conditional use permit for temporary uses may be issued for a maximum period of six months,
          with renewals at the discretion of the planning commission for no more than three successive
          periods thereafter.
       B. Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within a maximum period of
          one year after its issuance, said permit shall expire. The planning commission may grant one
          extension of up to six months, when deemed in the public interest, upon application by the
          permittee before expiration of the permit. The approval of a proposed conditional use permit by
          the planning commission shall authorize only the specific use for which it was issued.

 19.84.130 Amendment

 Once granted, a conditional use permit, or a conditional use thereunder, shall not be enlarged,
 changed, extended, increased in intensity, or relocated unless an application is made to amend the
 existing permit, and approval is given by the planning commission, except as provided below:

       A. The director may administratively consider, approve, or disapprove modifications or changes
          which are consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter. Such administrative
          determinations may be made only where the following conditions exist:
                   1. All additions, modifications or changes are determined not to have significant impact
                      beyond the site.
                   2. Any decision of the director may be appealed within 30 days to the planning commission.

       B. The planning commission may consider, approve with modifications, or disapprove amendments
          to a conditional use permit where the director determines not to make an administrative
          determination as provided in (a) above and where the following requirements are met:
                   1. The proposed modification or amendment complies with the intent and purpose of this
                      chapter.
                   2. Reasonable conditions may be attached if, and to the extent that, the planning
                      commission finds that the imposition of the conditions will directly mitigate or eliminate
                      some aspect of the proposed amendment that violates the intent and requirements of
                      this title. Impacts must be of the magnitude that, without the mitigation or elimination
                      thereof, the amendment to the conditional use permit could not be granted.
                   3. All decisions of the planning commission regarding approval, denial the imposition of
                      special conditions may be appealed to the appeals hearing officer as provided in this
                      title.


 19.84.140 Revocation

       A. The planning commission may revoke a conditional use permit if the conditions of the permit are
          not fully complied with. Prior to such a revocation, the chairman of the planning commission,
          after receiving information showing there is reason to believe that the conditions of the permit
          are not being followed, shall issue an order to show cause to the owner or person in control of
          the property or use in question. Such order shall specify the alleged conditions that are not in
          compliance, inform the owner or other responsible party that the subject conditional use permit
          may be revoked, and affording an opportunity for presentation of any relevant contrary
          evidence.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses       5/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

       B. After a hearing, the planning commission may revoke the conditional use permit, allow the use
          to continue, or add new terms and conditions to an existing permit. Any decision of the planning
          commission shall include findings of fact and its ruling. Following its decision, the planning
          commission shall have the right of action to compel offending structures or uses to be removed
          at the cost of the violator or owner. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
          planning commission from otherwise reviewing conditional use permits or be construed to
          prevent persons from being prosecuted under the criminal provision of this code for failure to
          comply with the terms of a conditional use permit.
       C. Any person or firm aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission regarding the
          revocation or amendment of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the appeals
          hearing officer, whose decision shall be final. Any decision of the appeals hearing officer
          concerning revocation of a conditional use permit may be appealed to District Court within 30
          days after the appeals hearing officer’s decision.




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses   6/6
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
June 3rd, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-25-010

Subject Property:
6789 Walker Mill Dr

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Wall Height
Extension

Property Owner:
The Liu Family Revocable Trust

Applicant:
Stephanie Van Drimmelen

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions
                                                               Aerial View


 This aerial image shows the subject property in context of the neighborhood. The blue line shows the
 location of the proposed wall height extension. Red lines show the other property lines of the lot.




APPLICANT’S PROPOSAL
The applicant proposes constructing an 8-foot-tall Trex composite fence along the proposed eastern
property line and portions of the northern and southern property lines as part of an ongoing lot line
adjustment process involving the purchase of approximately 30 feet of adjacent HOA common area. The
purpose of the fence is to improve privacy, reduce noise from the adjacent HOA tennis/pickleball court,
and create better separation between the backyard and the HOA common area. Due to the higher
elevation of the HOA common area, the applicant states that a standard 6-foot fence would not
adequately screen views or mitigate noise impacts.
                                                  Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                            Project CUP-26-010 – 6789 Walker Mill Dr

BACKGROUND
The HOA adjacent to the subject property is currently in the process of selling approximately 30 feet of
existing common area land located immediately east of the subject property to the homeowner as part
of a lot line adjustment. The adjacent property owner to the north is also purchasing approximately 30
feet of HOA land. The HOA common area to the east is situated at a higher elevation than the subject
property.

The applicant proposes to construct an 8-foot-tall Trex composite fence, measured from grade, along
the proposed new eastern property line established through the lot line adjustment process. The fence
would extend along portions of the north and south property lines to connect to the existing Trex
fencing. Proposed materials and design will match the existing Trex fencing to maintain a consistent
appearance.

Staff find that the proposed fence will not interfere with public access, traffic visibility, or neighborhood
circulation because it is located within the rear yard area adjacent to HOA common land. Staff further
find that, due to the elevation difference between the subject property and the adjacent HOA land, a
standard 6-foot fence would not adequately address the applicant’s stated privacy concerns or
sufficiently reduce noise impacts associated with the nearby tennis/pickleball court.




                                           Proposed fence design




                                                                                                  Page 2 of 5
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                          Project CUP-26-010 – 6789 Walker Mill Dr

Zoning
The zoning designation of the property is R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family). Fences and walls may be
allowed to a maximum height of eight feet in any zone as a conditional use, and up to 12 feet as a
conditional use with neighbor consent, as outlined in section 19.76.050.E City Code, shown below.
As this proposal is only requesting eight feet, neighbor consent was not required.

19.76.050(E)
       Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height of eight
       feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property owner in
       accordance with subsections (a) and (b) below:
           a. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and adverse
                nature relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or eliminated by the
                increased height of the requested fence; and
           b. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the circumstances.
                Any such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or his designee following
                an administrative hearing preceded by all required notifications. A building permit shall
                be required for all fences approved as a conditional use.
       Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a maximum
       height of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has received
       conditional use approval in accordance with subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).



IMPACT ANALYSIS

Staff Analysis: Staff finds the increased fence height proposed by this application to be a reasonable
privacy and screening enhancement from the adjacent HOA property.

Noticing
Property owners within 300 feet of the subject property have been mailed notices. Notices were mailed,
as well as posted on noticing websites and the City Hall bulletin board, on May 18, 2026.

Conditional Use Permit Determining Criteria
Staff have found enough evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit have
been satisfied (see Section 19.84.080 CH Code).


FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

    1. There is clear and convincing evidence shown by the property owner that the request will
       provide reasonable additional privacy; (19.76.050.E.3.)

    2. That construction of such wall and fence is the most reasonable solution under the
       circumstances. The additional fence height is necessary to ensure mitigation of aforementioned
       issues.

    3. The conditional use permit is granted by the director or his designee following an administrative
       hearing preceded by all required notifications. (19.76.050.E.3.)
                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report – June 3rd, 2026
                                                          Project CUP-26-010 – 6789 Walker Mill Dr


   4. The evidence presented with the proposed conditional use has been found to be compliant with
      the requirements of section 19.84.080 (Conditional Uses – Determination) and section
      19.76.050.E (Miscellaneous – Fences).

   5. There is sufficient evidence that the standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit as
      outlined in Section 19.84.080 CH Code have been satisfied.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

Approval of the requested fence height extension to allow an 8-foot-tall fence is recommended, subject
to the following conditions:

    1. The associated lot line adjustment shall be finalized and officially recorded prior to issuance of
       any permits or commencement of construction for the proposed fence.
    2. The applicant shall obtain all required building permits and inspections for the proposed fence in
       accordance with applicable municipal codes and development standards.
    3. The fence shall be constructed substantially consistent with the submitted plans and materials,
       including the proposed Trex composite design and connection to existing fencing along the
       north and south property lines.
    4. The approved fence shall remain entirely within the finalized property boundaries established
       through the lot line adjustment process.




Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve item CUP-26-010 pursuant to the conditions of approval outlined in the item’s staff
report
    • Add any additional conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny item CUP-26-010 based on the following findings…”
    • List reasons for denial…



Attachments
   1.   Proposed fence design
   2.   Proposed lot line adjustment
   3.   Site photos
   4.   19.76.050 Miscellaneous
   5.   19.84 Conditional Uses




                                                                                             Page 4 of 5
                                                                             CFC Fences & Decks
                                                                   2250 W Center St BLDG 2, Springville, UT 84663
                                                                   Utah County: (801) 374-6428 Salt Lake County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                   Summit County: (801) 990-6888
                                                                                    www.FenceAndDeckUtah.com
                                                                            Fence Project Installation Estimate/Contract
Name: VanDrimmelen, Stephanie (8' Option)                       Email:                     steph6@me.com                        Date:                      03-Feb-26
Job Address 6769 S Walker Mill Dr.                                City:     CW Heights       Zip:            84121              Salesman:                      Steve
Phone #'s                      801-580-7852                         (W)                                                         Referral Source:                 Pre-Customer
Billing Address:                                                  City:              ST:    Zip:
                           Diagram (not to scale: reference only)                                                            Project Details

                                                                                                                 Access
                                                                                                                                    [II        Bobcat      □ □Hand         Both

                                                                                                                 Misc.
                                                                                                                                    □            Wall       □        Flat Mount

                                                                                                                 Misc.              □          Box Posts    □        Extra Footers

                                                                                                               Core Cuts
                                                                                                                                    □            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No
                                                                                                       Future Return/ Multiple
                                                                                                                Trips
                                                                                                                                    □            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No

                                                                                                           Removal & Disposal
                                                                                                                                    0            Yes
                                                                                                                                                            □            No

                                                                                                            Yard Landscaping      Existing


                                                                                                             Total Foota e                               353'
             Diagram is not to scale and is for reference only.                                                                                [ l Addendum attached
                                                SKETCH/AREA TABLE ADDENDUM
                                                                              SUBJECT INFO
File No.:                        Parcel No.:
Property Address:
City:           County:                               State:                           ZipCode:
Owner:
Client:                        Client Address:
Appraiser Name:                           Inspection Date:
                                                                                   SKETCH




                                                                        Elevation - At rear/East Property Line

                                                                                      100.0'

Height
          8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                 8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                        Height


                                                                                     100.0'
                                                                                     Length - Ground Level




                 Elevation - At North Property Line                                                                         Elevation - At South Property Line

                               30.0'                                                                                                    30.0'

 Height                                                        Height                                                8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                 8.0'
                                                                                                            Height
          8.0'




                                                        8.0'




                                                                                                                                                                        Height


                               30.0'                                                                                                    30.0'

                       Length - Ground Level                                                                                  Length - Ground Level




                                                                                                                                                   Sketch by ApexSketch

                                                                AREA CALCULATIONS SUMMARY
Code                  Description                                              Factor                   Net Size                   Perimeter                      Net Totals




                                                                 © iLOOKABOUT (US) Inc. dba Apex Software                                                                  Page 1
   Looking West From Near SEC From        Common Area Path that extends Along The
     Common Area Towards House                          Subject




Looking North Towards Area to be Fenced   Looking North Towards Area to Be Fenced
       From Common Area Path




 Looking South From Area to Be Fenced     Looking SW Towards House and Backyard
        Towards Common Area                           From Near NEC
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview


 19.76.050 Miscellaneous

       A. Intersecting streets and clear visibility. In all zones, no obstruction to view in excess of three feet
          in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by public or private
          street property lines and a line connecting them at points 30 feet from the intersection of the
          street lines, except a reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed
          vision to automobile drivers.
       B. Off-site improvements.
                   1. Off-site improvements required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit for
                      all dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and quasi-
                      public uses shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk and asphalt along the entire property line
                      which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at city standards.
                      Vehicular entrances to the property shall be provided as allowed in this code. Height,
                      location, structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum
                      roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the
                      agency concerned.
                   2. Fee-in-lieu of improvements.
                           a. Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such
                              curb, gutter and sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to
                              pay to the city a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as
                              determined by the director. Upon payment of such fee by the developer, the city
                              shall assume the responsibility for future installation of such improvements.
                           b. The fees shall be placed in a special account, and shall credit to such account a
                              proportioned share of interest earned from investment of city monies. Records
                              relating to identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee
                              amounts collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be the
                              responsibility of the department.

       C. Water and sewage facilities. In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve
          the use of sewage facilities, and a sewer, as defined in the health department regulations, is not
          available within 300 feet of property where the building or use is proposed, and all cases where
          a proposed supply of piped water under pressure is not available within 300 feet of property
          where the building or use is proposed,, the alternative sewage disposal and the domestic water
          supply shall comply with requirements of the health department, and the application for a
          building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the health department.
       D. Regulations regarding junk.
                   1. “Junk” means any salvaged or scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags,
                      batteries, paper, wood, trash, plastic, rubber, tires and waste, or other articles or
                      materials commonly designated as junk. Junk, except as provided in Subsections (B) or
                      (C), shall also mean any dismantled, wrecked or inoperable motor vehicles or parts
                      thereof which are stored or parked on property outside of an enclosed building and
                      which remain in such condition for a period of time in excess of 60 days. An automobile,
                      truck or bus shall be considered inoperable if it is not currently registered and licensed in
                      this state or another state.
                   2. One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is not currently licensed
                      and registered in this state or another state but is otherwise operable may be stored on
                      property for a period not to exceed one year if it is secured with the windows closed, the

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous         1/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                     trunk and hood closed and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal;
                     or
                   3. One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is inoperable may be
                      stored in a side yard, except a side yard which faces on a street or a rear yard on
                      property for a period not to exceed one year provided:
                           a. The automobile or truck is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood
                              closed and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal;
                           b. The automobile or truck shall not be visible from any public street; and
                            c. The automobile or truck is entirely concealed by a covering which is maintained
                               in good condition and which does not extend closer to the ground than the lowest
                               point of the vehicle body.

                   4. All existing legal nonconforming motor vehicles as of the effective date of the ordinance
                      codified in this section, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the provisions of this
                      section within one year from the date of the enactment of this section or any amendment
                      thereto.

       E. General height and design regulations for walls, fences and retaining walls.
                   1. Definitions. In this Subsection (E):
                           a. “Fence” means a barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to
                              enclose, screen or separate areas.
                           b. “Fence height” means that a fence or wall shall be measured from the adjacent
                              existing natural grade at the base of the fence or wall, to the top edge of the
                              fence or wall.
                            c. “Fences atop walls” means that if a fence is atop a wall, the total height shall be
                               measured from the base of the wall to the top of the fence.
                           d. “Neighbor consent” means that all neighbors abutting the proposed wall/fence will
                              be required to provide written consent for retaining wall/fence height above eight
                              feet up to 12 feet.
                           e. “Retaining wall” means a structure that is designed and constructed to stabilize
                              two generally horizontal surfaces which are vertically displaced, and which shall
                              be either a landscape retaining wall or structural retaining wall.

                   2. Permitted height. No fence, wall, hedge, retaining wall or vertical combination of these
                      (hereinafter “fence”) may be erected to a height which exceeds the following
                      requirements:
                           a. Front yard. Four feet. Lots that are at least one acre in size and have only one
                              primary residence may erect a fence up to six feet in height. A fence may be
                              erected up to six feet in height along a side lot line in the front yard of a key lot,
                              so long as it abuts the rear lot line of an adjacent lot. Fences/walls in these
                              locations shall not be eligible for a wall height extension.
                           b. Side and rear yards. Six feet.
                            c. Exception. Retaining walls or fencing which comply with the setback
                               requirements for primary structures in the underlying zone, or accessory
                               structures in the underlying zone if wall or fence is in the rear yard may be
                               erected to the height allowed for each respective structure, measured from

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous          2/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                               existing grade. In cases where this provision conflicts with another portion of city
                               code, the more restrictive provision shall apply.

                   3. Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height
                      of eight feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property
                      owner in accordance with Subsections (a) and (b) below:
                             a. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and
                                adverse nature relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or
                                eliminated by the increased height of the requested fence; and
                             b. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the
                                circumstances. Any such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or
                                his designee following an administrative hearing preceded by all required
                                notifications. A building permit shall be required for all fences approved as a
                                conditional use.
                             c. In no case shall a conditional use permit be granted for a wall height extension in
                                the front yard of a property, including key lots.

                   4. Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a
                      maximum height of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has
                      received conditional use approval in accordance with Subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).
                   5. Terracing. If a taller retaining wall is necessitated by an engineering requirement as
                      determined by the city engineer, the retaining wall may be terraced. Terracing shall be
                      limited to three tiers. The horizontal width of the terrace between any two wall sections
                      above existing grade shall be at least ten feet. Terraces created between retaining walls
                      shall be landscaped or revegetated (see diagram).
                   6. Exceptions. Fences, walls, hedges, retaining walls or any vertical combination thereof in
                      the side or rear yard may be constructed to a maximum height of 12 feet without
                      neighbor consent and conditional use approval if the fence is adjacent to property
                      located in a commercial zone or adjacent to a public street.
                   7. Chain link fences. Chain link fences which are not vinyl coated or galvanized shall not be
                      allowed.
                   8. Fences, etc. atop retaining walls. Fences and non-retaining walls shall not be
                      constructed on top of a retaining wall unless the fence and/or non-retaining wall is set
                      back 18 inches for every one foot of vertical height above six feet high. In no
                      circumstance shall the combination of the retaining wall and fence and/or non-retaining
                      wall exceed eight feet without a separation of at least three feet.
                   9. Permit required. A building permit shall be required for any retaining wall over four feet in
                      height from existing grade, and any fence over six feet in height from existing grade.

                     Table 1
                                                      Maximum Residential Fence/Wall Height
                      Height                                   Location                                 Required Approval
                                                               All residential zones, all
                      0-4'                                                                Permitted
                                                               yards
                                                               Side and rear yards, front
                      4-6                                      yards of estate lots and key Permitted
                                                               lots

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous                   3/4
5/21/26, 8:58 AM                                                              Print Preview

                      6-8'                                     Side and rear yards                      Conditional Use
                                                                                                        Conditional  Use   with
                      8-12'                                    Side and rear yards
                                                                                                        Neighbor Consent


                     APPENDIX A
                     Terraced or Tiered Retaining Wall




 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024
 Amended by Ord. 421 on 9/10/2024




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.76.050_Miscellaneous                         4/4
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview


 19.84 Conditional Uses
 19.84.010 Definition
 19.84.020 Approval Standard
 19.84.030 Site Plan And Permit Required
 19.84.040 Fee
 19.84.050 Application
 19.84.060 Staff Report
 19.84.070 Public Hearing
 19.84.080 Determination
 19.84.090 Effect Of Approval
 19.84.100 Appeals
 19.84.110 Inspection
 19.84.120 Time Limits
 19.84.130 Amendment
 19.84.140 Revocation

 19.84.010 Definition

 A “conditional use” is a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on the
 city, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be
 compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.

 19.84.020 Approval Standard

       A. No Presumption of Approval. The listing of a conditional use in any table of permitted and
          conditional uses as found in various chapters of this title does not constitute an assurance or
          presumption that any such conditional use will be approved. Rather, each proposed conditional
          use shall be evaluated on an individual basis, in relation to its compliance with the standards
          and conditions set forth in this chapter and with the standards for the zoning district in which it is
          located, in order to determine whether the conditional use is appropriate at the particular
          location.
       B. Standard for Approval. A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
          proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the
          proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental
          effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
          imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
          conditional use may be denied.

 19.84.030 Site Plan And Permit Required

       A. A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in the zoning
          district regulations where they are, or will be, located, and if the use is specified as a conditional
          use elsewhere in this title. Failure to comply with any of the conditions imposed in the permit will
          result in an order to show cause for revocation. The permit may be revoked by the planning
          commission upon evidence that any condition has not been met.
       B. A conditional use has the potential for adverse impact on the use and enjoyment of adjacent
          properties and uses if the proposed conditional use is located and laid out without careful
          planning. Site plan review is a process designed to address such adverse impacts and minimize
          them where possible. Site plan review of development proposals is required for all conditional
          uses in all zoning districts in the city.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses       1/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

 19.84.040 Fee

 The application for any conditional use permit shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee under this
 code.

 19.84.050 Application

       A. The conditional use process is initiated upon submittal of a conditional use permit application to
          the department. The planning commission may authorize the director to grant, attach conditions
          to, or deny conditional use permits, subject to such limitations or qualifications as are deemed
          necessary.
       B. All applications for a conditional use permit shall include:
                   1. The applicant’s name, address, telephone numbers and interest in the property;
                   2. The owner’s name, address and telephone number, if different than the applicant, and
                      the owner’s signed consent to the filing of the application;
                   3. The street address and legal description of the subject property;
                   4. The zoning classification, zoning district boundaries and present use of the subject
                      property;
                   5. A vicinity map with North, scale and date, indicating the zoning classifications and
                      current uses of properties within 300 feet of the boundaries of the subject property.
                      When a conditional use permit will be considered by the planning commission, the
                      application shall also include a current plat map showing the names and addresses of all
                      property owners appearing on the tax rolls of the Salt Lake County Assessor within 300
                      feet of the boundaries of the subject property.
                   6. A plat or a survey of the parcel of land, lots block, blocks, or parts or portions thereof,
                      drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the piece or parcel, lot, lots, block,
                      blocks, or portions thereof, according to the registered or recorded plat of such land;
                   7. The proposed title of the project and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of
                      the architect, landscape architect, planner or engineer on the project;
                   8. A complete description of the proposed conditional use;
                   9. A plan or drawing drawn to scale of twenty feet to the inch (20’ = 1 inch) or larger which
                      includes the following information of the proposed use:
                           a. actual dimensions of the subject property;
                           b. exact sizes and location of all existing and proposed buildings or other structures;
                            c. driveways;
                           d. parking spaces;
                           e. safety curbs;
                            f. landscaping;
                           g. location of trash receptacles;
                           h. drainage features and environmental features; and
                            i. a table showing all land uses and open space with square feet and percentage of
                               total property for each use.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses         2/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

                   10. A traffic impact analysis (when deemed necessary by the department);
                   11. A statement indicating whether the applicant will require a variance in connection with
                       the proposed conditional use permit;
                   12. Envelopes, mailing labels and first class postage for all property owners located within
                       300 feet of the subject property when a conditional use permit will be considered by the
                       planning commission; and
                   13. Such other further information or documentation as the director may deem to be
                       necessary for a full and proper consideration and disposition of the particular application.


 19.84.060 Staff Report

 Once the department has determined the application is complete, a staff report evaluating the
 conditional use application shall be prepared and forwarded to the planning commission.

 19.84.070 Public Hearing

 A public hearing may be held if the chairman of the planning commission deems a hearing to be in the
 public interest.

 19.84.080 Determination

       A. Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a public
          meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other factors. The
          planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use; approve the proposed
          conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions; postpone decision pending
          consideration of additional information to be submitted by the applicant; or deny the proposed
          conditional use.
       B. In approving a conditional use, the planning commission may impose such requirements and
          conditions as it deems necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
          welfare. The planning commission shall only approve with conditions, or deny a conditional use,
          based upon written findings of fact with regard to each of the standards set forth below and,
          where applicable, any special standards for conditional uses set forth in the specific zoning
          district. The planning commission shall not approve issuance of a conditional use permit unless
          the evidence presented is such as to establish the following:
                    1. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning
                       district in which it is to be located;
                    2. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to
                       the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
                       vicinity;
                    3. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
                       compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
                    4. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which
                       it is to be located;
                    5. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated
                       by the conditions imposed;
                    6. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
                       assured;

https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses          3/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

                    7. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
                    8. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
                       imposed on the applicant or owner;
                    9. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
                   10. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
                       development;
                   11. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
                       and visual impacts;
                   12. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
                       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
                       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
                   13. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will
                       be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
                   14. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of
                       the property; and
                   15. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.
                   16. The foregoing approval standards shall be subject to any contrary requirements of Utah
                       Code Ann. § 10-9a-507, as amended.


 19.84.090 Effect Of Approval

 The approval of a proposed conditional use shall not authorize the establishment or extension of any
 use nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building or structure,
 but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing of applications for any permits or
 approvals that may be required by the city, such as subdivision approval, a building permit, a certificate
 of occupancy, etc.

 19.84.100 Appeals

 Any person aggrieved by a decision of the planning commission regarding the issuance, denial or
 revocation or amendment of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the appeals hearing
 officer, whose decision shall then be final. All appeals to the appeals hearing officer must be in writing
 and filed with the department within 30 days after the date of the decision appealed from. The decision
 of the appeals hearing officer may be appealed to the District Court, provided that such appeal is filed
 with the District Court, with a copy to the director, within 30 days after the decision of the appeals
 hearing officer.

 19.84.110 Inspection

 Following the issuance of a final conditional use permit:

       A. The department may accept an application for approval of a building permit (if applicable), and
          shall ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with the conditional
          use permit, the city’s building code, and any other applicable laws or ordinances.
       B. The director shall make periodic inspections to assure compliance with all applicable conditions
          of approval. An investigation report will be issued to any conditional use permittee that is out of
          compliance. If the discrepancy is not corrected in an allotted time of not less than ten days, then
          an order to show cause will be issued for action by the planning commission.
https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses         4/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

 19.84.120 Time Limits

       A. A conditional use permit for temporary uses may be issued for a maximum period of six months,
          with renewals at the discretion of the planning commission for no more than three successive
          periods thereafter.
       B. Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit within a maximum period of
          one year after its issuance, said permit shall expire. The planning commission may grant one
          extension of up to six months, when deemed in the public interest, upon application by the
          permittee before expiration of the permit. The approval of a proposed conditional use permit by
          the planning commission shall authorize only the specific use for which it was issued.

 19.84.130 Amendment

 Once granted, a conditional use permit, or a conditional use thereunder, shall not be enlarged,
 changed, extended, increased in intensity, or relocated unless an application is made to amend the
 existing permit, and approval is given by the planning commission, except as provided below:

       A. The director may administratively consider, approve, or disapprove modifications or changes
          which are consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter. Such administrative
          determinations may be made only where the following conditions exist:
                   1. All additions, modifications or changes are determined not to have significant impact
                      beyond the site.
                   2. Any decision of the director may be appealed within 30 days to the planning commission.

       B. The planning commission may consider, approve with modifications, or disapprove amendments
          to a conditional use permit where the director determines not to make an administrative
          determination as provided in (a) above and where the following requirements are met:
                   1. The proposed modification or amendment complies with the intent and purpose of this
                      chapter.
                   2. Reasonable conditions may be attached if, and to the extent that, the planning
                      commission finds that the imposition of the conditions will directly mitigate or eliminate
                      some aspect of the proposed amendment that violates the intent and requirements of
                      this title. Impacts must be of the magnitude that, without the mitigation or elimination
                      thereof, the amendment to the conditional use permit could not be granted.
                   3. All decisions of the planning commission regarding approval, denial the imposition of
                      special conditions may be appealed to the appeals hearing officer as provided in this
                      title.


 19.84.140 Revocation

       A. The planning commission may revoke a conditional use permit if the conditions of the permit are
          not fully complied with. Prior to such a revocation, the chairman of the planning commission,
          after receiving information showing there is reason to believe that the conditions of the permit
          are not being followed, shall issue an order to show cause to the owner or person in control of
          the property or use in question. Such order shall specify the alleged conditions that are not in
          compliance, inform the owner or other responsible party that the subject conditional use permit
          may be revoked, and affording an opportunity for presentation of any relevant contrary
          evidence.


https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses       5/6
5/21/26, 8:57 AM                                                              Print Preview

       B. After a hearing, the planning commission may revoke the conditional use permit, allow the use
          to continue, or add new terms and conditions to an existing permit. Any decision of the planning
          commission shall include findings of fact and its ruling. Following its decision, the planning
          commission shall have the right of action to compel offending structures or uses to be removed
          at the cost of the violator or owner. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
          planning commission from otherwise reviewing conditional use permits or be construed to
          prevent persons from being prosecuted under the criminal provision of this code for failure to
          comply with the terms of a conditional use permit.
       C. Any person or firm aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission regarding the
          revocation or amendment of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the appeals
          hearing officer, whose decision shall be final. Any decision of the appeals hearing officer
          concerning revocation of a conditional use permit may be appealed to District Court within 30
          days after the appeals hearing officer’s decision.




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.84_Conditional_Uses   6/6
