COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
June 3, 2026
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, June 3,
2026, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 4:30 p.m. –Council workroom
   2. Business Session – 6:30 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comments.

4:30 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 CUP-25-005 -Old Mill Demolition

       3.0 Adjourn

6:30 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose.

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items

               3.1 Project ZMA-26-002/GPA-26-002
               The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing to review a zoning text amendment request
               initiated by Jordan Brady. The Request to amend the General Plan Land Use designation from Rural
               Residential to Residential Low Density and rezone approximately 1.08 acres at 2193 E. 6525 S. from
               RR-1-21 to R-1-15. The proposal is intended to facilitate low-density residential infill development.

               3.2 Project ADU-26-001
               The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing to review and take possible action on a request
               for approval of a detached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) at 2982 E. 7375 S. The proposed ADU
               includes a approximately 800-square-foot footprint, a height ranging from approximately 10 to 15 feet,
               and required parking adjacent to the structure.

               3.3 Project CUP-26-007
               The Planning Commission will hold a public hearing to review and take possible action on a request
               for approval of a Conditional Use Permit to construct a rectory accessory to the existing church
               located at 7136 South 1700 East. The proposed rectory will provide residential housing for clergy
               associated with the church.
       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of May 6, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.
       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: July 1, 2026.

Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comments verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:30 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 4:30 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comments may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.
Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they must
be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MDT on Tuesday, June 2, 2026, the day prior to the meeting. Comments
received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Thursday, May 28, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer
of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 28th DAY OF MAY 2026, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
June 3, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
ZMA-26-002/GPA-26-
002

Subject Property:
2193 E. 6525 S.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend. and
General Plan Amend.

Applicant:
Jordan Brady
(Brady Family Trust)

Recommendation:
APPROVE

Context
Property Owner:
Brady Family Trust

Acreage:
1.08 acres




Request
The applicant is requesting approval of a General Plan Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map
Amendment for property located at 2193 E. 6525 S. The request would amend the current Rural
Residential General Plan designation and RR-1-21 zoning designation to Residential Low Density and
R-1-15 zoning respectively.

The purpose of the request is to facilitate subdivision of the approximately 1.08-acre property into
three detached single-family residential lots generally consistent with portions of the surrounding
neighborhood lot pattern and development character.

The applicant states the proposal is intended to provide low-density residential infill development
while maintaining compatibility with the surrounding single-family residential neighborhood.
                                                            Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                           Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

Existing Conditions

The subject property is located within an established residential neighborhood characterized
primarily by detached single-family residential development with varying lot sizes and
configurations. The surrounding area contains a mixture of conforming and legal nonconforming
lots under the current RR-1-21 zoning designation.

The RR-1-21 district requires:

   ❖ a minimum lot size of 21,000 square feet,
   ❖ larger residential setbacks,
   ❖ and is intended to preserve low-density rural residential development patterns within the
       City.

The property is currently undeveloped and is surrounded primarily by residential uses

           o   Current land use designation – Residential Rual Density
           o   Proposed land use designation – Residential Low Density
           o   Current zoning designation – RR-1-21 - Rural Residential Zone
           o   Proposed zoning designation – R-1-15 - Residential Single-Family Zone




                                                                                        Page 2 of 11
                                    Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                   Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Rual Density




PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION: Residential Low Density




                                                            Page 3 of 11
                                                  Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                 Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

          CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION: RR-1-21 - Rural Residential Zone




       PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION: R-1-15 - Residential Single-Family Zone




Applicant                                                            Narrative &
Supporting                                                           Information

                                                                          Page 4 of 11
                                                             Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                            Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

The applicant submitted supplemental neighborhood analysis identifying existing lot conditions
within the surrounding RR-1-21 area. According to the submitted analysis:

   •   approximately 29 of 57 lots (approximately 51%) within the surrounding RR-1-21 area are
       already legal nonconforming lots with respect to current lot size or lot width standards;

   •   many surrounding lots are already developed below the current 21,000 square foot minimum
       lot size requirement;

   •   and the proposed lot sizes would remain generally consistent with portions of the
       surrounding neighborhood pattern.

The applicant further notes that one of the primary distinctions associated with RR zoning is the
allowance for limited livestock uses. However, Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Section
8.14.020 establishes that livestock rights are limited to properties containing a minimum of 20,000
square feet of lot area:

“A minimum of 20,000 square feet of lot size is required for the keeping of any livestock.”

Based on the applicant’s submitted analysis, a substantial portion of surrounding properties are
already below the minimum lot size necessary to fully utilize livestock rights associated with the RR
zoning district.

The applicant states the proposed R-1-15 zoning designation more accurately reflects the existing
development pattern and neighborhood character within the area while still maintaining low-density
detached single-family residential development.



General Plan Analysis

The subject property is currently designated Residential – Rural Density on the Cottonwood Heights
General Plan Land Use Map. The applicant is requesting approval to rezone the property from RR-1-
21 (Rural Residential) to R-1-15 (Single-Family Residential), which requires a concurrent General
Plan Land Use Map Amendment from Residential – Rural Density to Residential – Low Density.

The existing Residential – Rural Density designation is intended to support very low-density
residential development, including rural residential zoning districts and larger-lot development
patterns. The General Plan generally describes Rural Density Residential as accommodating
residential development with lot sizes generally averaging approximately 21,000 square feet or
larger.
By contrast, the Residential – Low Density designation is intended to accommodate detached single-
family residential development generally consisting of lot sizes ranging from approximately 8,700
square feet to 17,400 square feet. Staff finds the Residential – Low Density designation may more
accurately reflect the existing development pattern surrounding the subject property while
maintaining detached single-family residential land use.
Staff acknowledges the proposal represents a departure from the historic intent of the existing
Residential – Rural Density designation, which was originally intended to preserve larger lot
development patterns and limited rural residential character within portions of the City. However,

                                                                                         Page 5 of 11
                                                              Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                             Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

staff finds the surrounding neighborhood has evolved over time and now contains a mixture of lot
sizes, development patterns, and conforming and legal nonconforming residential properties.

Staff further notes that approximately 29 of 57 surrounding lots (approximately 51%) within the RR-
1-21 area are already legal nonconforming lots that do not meet current RR dimensional standards.
In addition, Section 8.14.020 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code requires a minimum lot size
of 20,000 square feet to qualify for livestock rights within the RR district. As a result, a substantial
portion of surrounding properties are already unable to fully utilize livestock rights associated with
the RR zoning designation.

The Cottonwood Heights General Plan contains policies emphasizing:
   • preservation of low-density residential neighborhoods;

   •   protection of established neighborhood character;
   •   maintenance of compatible land use patterns; and
   •   preservation of community identity.
Staff finds the proposal maintains detached single-family residential land use and does not
introduce multifamily, commercial, or other high-intensity land uses that would substantially alter
the established residential character of the area.
The General Plan also contains policies supporting:
    • efficient use of infrastructure;

   •   orderly residential growth;
   •   development compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and
   •   accommodation of future housing needs within developed portions of the City.


Staff finds the subject property is located within an already developed and serviced residential area
with existing roadway access and utility infrastructure available to support the proposed
development. Staff further finds the proposal represents moderate and context-sensitive infill
development generally compatible with portions of the surrounding neighborhood development
pattern.

Accordingly, staff finds amending the General Plan Land Use Map from Residential – Rural Density
to Residential – Low Density may provide a more appropriate policy basis for the requested R-1-15
zoning designation and may better align the property with the existing and anticipated development
pattern of the surrounding neighborhood.

General Plan amendments are legislative policy decisions intended to allow the City to periodically
reevaluate land use designations in response to evolving development patterns, neighborhood
conditions, and community needs.




Neighborhood Compatibility Analysis


                                                                                           Page 6 of 11
                                                               Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                              Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

The surrounding neighborhood is developed primarily with detached single-family residential uses
and contains a variety of lot sizes and configurations.

Staff finds the prevalence of existing legal nonconforming lots within the surrounding RR-1-21 area
demonstrates that the neighborhood has historically developed with a smaller lot pattern than
currently required under the RR district. Staff finds this existing development pattern relevant in
evaluating neighborhood compatibility and the practical functioning of the area today.

Although the surrounding area retains RR zoning, staff finds the neighborhood today exhibits a hybrid
development pattern containing both rural residential characteristics and low-density suburban
residential development patterns.

The proposed R-1-15 zoning designation would maintain:

    •   detached single-family residential use,

    •   relatively low-density residential development,

    •   and lot sizes generally compatible with portions of the surrounding neighborhood.

Staff further finds the proposal does not introduce:

    •   multifamily housing,

    •   commercial uses,

    •   or substantially higher-intensity land uses that would materially alter neighborhood
        character.


Rural Residential Functionality Analysis

One of the primary distinguishing characteristics of the RR zoning district is the opportunity for
limited livestock and rural residential uses. However, Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code Section
8.14.020 establishes that a minimum lot size of 20,000 square feet is required for the keeping of
livestock.

The applicant’s submitted neighborhood analysis indicates approximately 51% of lots within the
surrounding RR-1-21 area are already legal nonconforming lots that do not meet current RR
dimensional standards.

Staff finds this information relevant in evaluating the practical functionality and existing character of
the neighborhood. While portions of the area continue to exhibit rural residential characteristics, a
substantial portion of the surrounding neighborhood already cannot fully utilize livestock rights
associated with the RR district due to existing lot dimensions.




Public Services & Infrastructure

                                                                                            Page 7 of 11
                                                              Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                             Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

The applicant states that existing water, sewer, stormwater, roadway, and utility infrastructure are
available to serve the proposed lots.

Staff finds the proposal represents a modest increase in residential density within an already
serviced neighborhood and that impacts to public infrastructure and services are anticipated to be
minimal and manageable through standard subdivision review and engineering requirements.

Any future subdivision application would remain subject to:

   •   engineering review,

   •   utility approval,

   •   drainage and stormwater requirements,

   •   fire access standards,

   •   roadway improvements,



Public Health, Safety & Welfare

Staff finds the proposed amendment would not materially negatively impact public health, safety, or
welfare because:

   •   the proposal maintains residential land use consistent with existing neighborhood;

   •   the property is located within an already developed and serviced residential neighborhood;

   •   future development would remain subject to all applicable building, engineering,
       subdivision, and fire standards;

   •   and the request does not introduce incompatible land uses.

Staff additionally finds the proposal may provide public benefit through:

   •   efficient utilization of existing infrastructure,

   •   additional housing opportunities,

   •   reinvestment in underutilized residential property,

   •   and context-sensitive infill development.




Analysis & Procedure


                                                                                       Page 8 of 11
                                                             Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                            Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

Staff finds the proposed General Plan Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment are supportable
for the following reasons:

   1. The proposal maintains detached single-family residential land use consistent with the
      existing neighborhood.
   2. The surrounding RR-1-21 area already contains numerous legal nonconforming lots with
      varying lot sizes and development patterns.
   3. The proposed R-1-15 zoning designation represents a moderate and incremental transition
      that remains generally consistent with the existing neighborhood character.
   4. Existing public infrastructure and municipal services are available to support the proposed
      development.
   5. The proposal represents context-sensitive infill development within an already developed
      residential area.
   6. Staff finds the request will not materially negatively impact public health, safety, or welfare.



Procedure
Zoning map amendments and general plan amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the
Planning Commission’s authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal,
and make recommendations to the City Council. The City Council is the final approval authority for
this application.

Chapter 19.90.070 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for general
plan amendments:

       19.90.070 General Plan Amendment; Procedure
       The city council may amend the general plan. A proposed amendment to the general plan
       shall not be made or become effective unless it is first presented to the planning
       commission and, before making its recommendation concerning the proposed
       amendment, the planning commission holds a public hearing on the proposed
       amendment preceded by all required public notice. The planning commission thereafter
       shall forward the proposed amendment and its recommendation concerning it to the city
       council.


Chapter 19.90.010 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.90.10 Amendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
          of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
          ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
          section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
          first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
          effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive
          recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
          of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
                                                                                        Page 9 of 11
                                                            Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                           Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

       B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
          planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council…. The city
          council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
          reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
          made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 / 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.



Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were mailed
to property owners within 1000’ feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property. Returned notices and a list of all noticed properties have been kept by staff.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with applicable local and state noticing
      requirements.
   2. The proposed amendment maintains low-density single-family residential land use
      generally compatible with the surrounding neighborhood character.
   3. The surrounding RR-1-21 neighborhood already contains a substantial number of legal
      nonconforming lots that do not meet current RR dimensional standards.
   4. The proposed R-1-15 zoning designation is generally compatible with existing lot
      configurations and development patterns within the area.
   5. A substantial portion of the surrounding RR-1-21 neighborhood is already unable to fully
      utilize livestock rights associated with the RR zoning designation due to existing lot size
      limitations established under Section 8.14.020 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
   6. The proposed amendment would facilitate infill development utilizing existing infrastructure
      and public services.
   7. Staff finds that the public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment and
      that reasonable justification exists to support the requested changes.




Recommendation & Model Motions

Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-26-002/GPA-26-002 to the City
                                                                                      Page 10 of 11
                                                                Planning Commission –June 3, 2026
                                                               Project ZMA-26-002 – 2193 E. 6525 S.

Council (Note – two separate motions and votes will be required – one for the proposed land use
map amendment, and one for the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same
project reference number).
Approval
I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-26-002/GPA-26-002 to the City Council based on
the findings and recommendations listed in the staff report dated June 3, 2026…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-26-002/GPA-26-002 to the City Council based on the
following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…


ATTACHMENTS

   •     Applicant’s Narrative
   •     Proposed Singal family Designs
   •     R-1-15 - Residential Single-Family Zone Zoning Code




                                                                                       Page 11 of 11
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONING MAP AMENDMENT



WRITTEN NARRATIVE

Project: Zoning Map Amendment from RR-1-21 to R-1-15 Subdivision of ±1.08 acre lot into
three (3) ~0.36-acre residential lots.

Location: 2193 East 6525 South Cottonwood Heights, Utah



Rendering to illustrate the potential development of property upon rezoning and
subdivision approval.




1. Project Rationale / Intent

The intent of this project is to subdivide an underutilized one-acre residential parcel in the
RR-1-21 zoning area into three approximately third acre lots that are consistent with the
existing development in the area.

This proposal responds to increasing demand for moderately sized single-family lots that
balance livability, a[ordability, and e[icient land use. The project is designed to:

 • Provide additional housing opportunities within an established neighborhood

 • Utilize existing infrastructure e[iciently

 • Create a predictable, well-designed inﬁll development that aligns with market
demand
Rather than maintaining a single underutilized lot, the subdivision introduces more
e[icient land use while preserving the character of a low-density residential neighborhood.



2. Consistency with the General Plan & Long-Term City Goals

Although the rezoning of the single parcel would be an amendment to the General Plan in
one context, it would also support the General Plan for growth and development in
Cottonwood Heights by:

   •   Providing increased housing
   •   Supporting inﬁll development
   •   Utilizing existing infrastructure and resources
   •   And providing conformity to and preserving the integrity of the existing neighborhood

The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the guiding principles outlined in
the Cottonwood Heights General Plan, including:

  • E[icient Land Use: Encourages thoughtful inﬁll development within existing
neighborhoods to accommodate population growth without expanding into undeveloped
areas.

 • Housing Diversity: Supports a broader range of lot sizes and housing opportunities to
meet changing demographic and economic conditions.

  • Neighborhood Compatibility: Promotes development that respects the scale and
character of the surrounding neighborhood.

  • Infrastructure Optimization: Maximizes the use of existing utilities, roads, and public
services.

This proposal aligns with the city’s long-term vision of managing growth through
incremental, context-sensitive development rather than large-scale or disruptive changes.

3. Existing Development Pattern & Compatibility

The surrounding area is characterized primarily by single-family residential development,
with a mix of lot sizes that include both larger parcels and smaller subdivided lots.

The proposed subdivision will be harmonious with the existing neighborhood by:

 • Maintaining single-family residential use

 • Introducing lot sizes (~0.36 acre) that already exist in the RR-1-21 zoning area.
  • Ensuring compatible building scale, setbacks, and design

  • Preserving neighborhood character while allowing gradual evolution

This is a logical continuation of the area’s existing development pattern rather than a
departure from it.



4. Impact on Public Services & Mitigation

The proposed subdivision is expected to create only a modest increase in demand on
public services due to the small scale of development of three total lots.

Utilities:

Existing water, sewer, stormwater, and power infrastructure are available and capable of
serving the proposed lots with standard extensions and connections.

Emergency Services:

The site will maintain compliant access for ﬁre and emergency vehicles. The incremental
increase in demand is negligible relative to service capacity.

Schools:

The addition of a small number of homes is not expected to signiﬁcantly impact school
enrollment levels.

Mitigation Measures:

  • Coordination with utility providers for capacity and connection requirements

  • Compliance with all city engineering and public works standards

  • Proper drainage and stormwater management systems

  • Fire code-compliant access and hydrant placement



5. Impact on Public Health, Safety, and Welfare

The proposed rezone and subdivision will positively contribute to public health, safety, and
welfare by:

    •   Improving land use e[iciency within an already serviced area
    •   Reducing pressure for outward expansion into undeveloped land
    •   Ensuring all new development meets current building, safety, and engineering
        standards
    •   Enhancing neighborhood vitality through reinvestment and redevelopment
    •   Increased annual tax revenue from $3, 226.98 for an undeveloped 1.08-acre lot to
        an estimated $5,000.00-$6,000.00 per lot and a $15,000-$18,000 overall increase.

No adverse impacts to health or safety are anticipated, as all development will adhere to
current codes and regulations.



6. Appropriateness of Proposed Zoning vs. Existing Zoning

The proposed zoning is very appropriate for the existing area. The current RR-1-21zoning
provides animal and agricultural rights to landowners who live on parcels in the zoning that
are large enough to utilize those rights. The proposed zoning change of the single 1-acre
parcel will not impact the rights of any existing homeowners in the RR-1-21 zoning area and
still allow for appropriate and conforming development within the area that aligns with the
city goal of providing more housing and responsible inﬁll development.

The proposed zoning:

 • Aligns with the existing moderate-density single-family development

 • Allows for e[icient use of land and infrastructure

 • Supports housing demand without introducing incompatible uses

In contrast, maintaining the current zoning would underutilize a well-located residential
parcel within an established neighborhood.

The current RR-1-21 zoning requires a minimum lot size of 21,00 square feet. Currently,
55% of parcels in the RR-1-21 zoning area are legal non-conforming lots which are smaller
than the minimum 21,000 square foot requirement.

Animal rights, speciﬁcally for livestock, are one of the main beneﬁts of the RR-1-21 zoning
designation. For a lot to utilize the livestock beneﬁt, a minimum 20,000 square foot lot size
is required. Currently, only 46.5% of lots qualify for the livestock beneﬁt due to not meeting
the minimum lot size and only an estimated 12% of the lots meet the additional fencing
and containment requirements of the livestock beneﬁt. It is estimated that 5 or fewer total
lots in the RR-1-21 zoning are currently utilizing the livestock beneﬁt. The proposal does not
displace any livestock or farms, nor does it limit or take away the existing rights of any
residents or landowners in the zoning area.
7. Changes Since Original Zoning

Several key factors have changed since the property’s original zoning designation:

 • Market Demand: Increased demand for smaller, more attainable single-family lots

 • Growth Pressures: Continued population growth within Salt Lake County

  • Development Trends: A shift toward inﬁll development rather than large-lot
subdivisions

 • Infrastructure Availability: Existing infrastructure now supports slightly higher density
development

These changes justify a reevaluation of the property’s zoning to better reﬂect current
conditions.



8. Community-Wide Beneﬁts vs. Impacts

When considering the amendment proposal to the General Plan, the beneﬁts are greater
than the potential impacts.

Community Beneﬁts:

   •   Adds thoughtfully designed housing supply in a high-demand area
   •   Supports e[icient land use and sustainability goals
   •   Reinforces neighborhood stability through investment and development
   •   Expands housing options for a broader range of residents
   •   Develops an undeveloped property that will improve the quality of the existing
       neighborhood.
   •   Provides an e[icient use of existing infrastructure
   •   Reinforces planned development that matches existing development and enhances
       community character.
   •   Increased annual tax revenue.

Potential Impacts:

   •   Slight, and likely unimpactful increase in tra[ic and service demand.
Why Beneﬁts Outweigh Impacts:

The scale of the project is modest, and any impacts are minimal and manageable through
standard development requirements. The broader beneﬁt of increased housing availability
and e[icient land use provides a net positive outcome for the community.



9. Applicable Conditions Supporting the Amendment

The request to amend the General Plan and zoning of a single lot within the RR-1-21 zoning
area of Cottonwood Heights is compatible with the larger planning framework and in
alignment with the city by:

   •   Supporting managed inﬁll development which is an objective at the city, county, and
       state levels
   •   Utilizing undeveloped land in a serviced area
   •   Promoting e[icient land use
   •   Increasing housing opportunity
   •   Preserving residential character
   •   Displaying responsible growth management

The proposal directly supports General Plan goals related to inﬁll development, housing
diversity, and e[icient land use. There is clear demand for smaller residential lots,
necessitating development that would require a zoning amendment but also conforms to
city’s growth initiative.



Closing Statement

This proposal represents a thoughtful, incremental improvement to an existing residential
property that aligns with Cottonwood Heights’ long-term planning goals. It balances growth
with neighborhood compatibility, supports housing demand, and utilizes existing
infrastructure responsibly.

The requested zoning amendment and subdivision should be viewed as a logical and
beneﬁcial evolution of the property that contributes positively to both the immediate
neighborhood and the broader community.

This rezoning proposal is an acceptable balance between maintaining the integrity of the
current neighborhood while allowing for appropriate development of an underutilized
existing parcel.
My intent of this narrative is to persuade decision makers to consider the beneﬁts that
would be made possible by granting this amendment and realize that while a small change
would be necessary, there is a greater good that does not impact the rights of landowners
in the designated area or inhibit anyone from utilizing the existing beneﬁts of the RR-1-21
zoning that currently exists.
Owner Consent Form
Context Map of Subject Property




Site Photos
Application ZMA-26-002
Appendix 1
Applicant: Jordan and Brooke Brady

I am submitting this appendix to provide the members of the Cottonwood Heights City Council
and Planning Commission with a fuller understanding of this project, as well as my intent and
motivation for applying for an amendment to the General Plan and Zoning Map. While this
information is more personal than what is typically included in the formal application materials, I
believe it is important context for consideration.

I am the grandson of Elsie Irene Brady and Robert Clyde Brady, both deceased, who were the
original owners of the property now held by The Brady Family Trust. The trust also owns the
adjacent lot to the north, which contains the family’s primary residence. I have recently been
granted owner consent to apply for these amendments with the intent of purchasing that
residence, affectionately known for nearly 50 years as “Nana’s House.”

I want to protect and enhance the integrity of the surrounding neighborhood by pursuing a
development model that is compatible with the existing character of the area and desirable for
surrounding homeowners and residents. My parents built their retirement home on a lot adjacent
to the underutilized parcels in question. I would like to help ensure that their property, along with
those of neighboring families who have similarly invested in this community, will continue to be
surrounded by homes and lots that reflect the same quality and character that make this
neighborhood special.




In addition, Nana’s House has been a foundational place for both our family and me personally
throughout our lives. My grandfather built the home in the 1950s using a plan and materials
from a Sears Roebuck catalog. Over the decades, Nana’s House has served as the gathering
place for four generations of Brady family holidays, celebrations, birthdays, weddings, cookouts,
and community events. It is where I learned to drive a tractor, hammer nails, swing a golf club,
use power tools, weld, and appreciate the value of hard work and family tradition.

My intent is to continue the legacy of Nana’s House as a place that strengthens families,
friendships, and community connections.

This property also holds deep personal significance for my own family. Nana’s House played an
important role during my courtship with my wife, Brooke, and during the early years of our
marriage. Today, it is our family’s current residence. My wife and I, along with our five children,
have rented Nana’s House for the past two and a half years, and we have lived in Cottonwood
Heights for the past six years.

We are active members of the community. One of our sons recently graduated from Brighton
High School, and another will enter his junior year at Cottonwood High School this fall. Our
daughter and younger son will both attend Butler Middle School, and our youngest daughter will
begin kindergarten at a local elementary school. Through athletics, recreation programs, and
extracurricular activities, each of our children has had the opportunity to grow and thrive within
this community.

We also volunteer and serve locally as youth leaders and coaches. My wife, Brooke, has served
on the Brighton Youth Football Board for the past four years. In addition, we serve our
neighborhood and community through our church. Our family is not simply living in
Cottonwood Heights — Cottonwood Heights is part of our family.

I am not a professional developer, nor do I expect to profit significantly from this project. My
primary goal is to preserve our family property and ultimately purchase my grandmother’s home
once the project is complete.

The development strategy is straight forward, and the proposal would allow subdivision of the
south parcel into three residential building lots to be sold to families who would construct single-
family homes. Additionally, approximately one-half acre would be subdivided from the primary
residence parcel and sold for the construction of another single-family home. Notably, this
portion of the subdivision does not require an amendment to the General Plan or Zoning Map.




Approval of this application would allow for the thoughtful development and improvement of
approximately 2.4 acres of residential property, including 1.58 acres that are currently
undeveloped and underutilized under the existing zoning. All new development would bring
these properties into compliance with current city development standards.

I believe this proposal aligns with both the intent and spirit of the Cottonwood Heights General
Plan. The General Plan was created to preserve and protect the residential character of the
community while allowing for thoughtful and appropriate growth as community needs evolve
over time. My proposal seeks to preserve neighborhood character while responsibly improving
underutilized residential property.
The General Plan itself describes the document as an overarching guideline intended to evolve
with the changing needs of the community and to be interpreted by elected officials in the
context of the time and circumstances in which they serve.

The General Plan identifies ten guidelines to consider when reviewing proposed amendments. I
believe this proposal is consistent with all seven guidelines relevant to this parcel and does not
negatively impact the remaining three.
-Section1.3, Amending the Plan, Cottonwood Heights General Plan

Guidelines Relevant to and Supportive of This Proposal
   • Support economic sustainability
   • Promote efficient use of land, natural resources, and public infrastructure
   • Provide community amenities and benefits
   • Create safe, attractive neighborhoods and protect residential quality of life
   • Minimize conflicts between adjacent land uses
   • Consider present and future housing needs across a range of social and economic
circumstances
   • Recognize and respect the rights of individual property owners

Guidelines Not Significantly Impacted by This Proposal
  • Protect environmentally sensitive lands, viewsheds, and open spaces (This parcel does not
contain environmentally sensitive lands, protected viewsheds, or designated open space.)
  • Support convenient and safe transportation networks for automobile and transit use
  • Support alternative modes of transportation, including bicycle and pedestrian access. (This
parcel is not located within a transportation or pedestrian corridor.)

As stated in the Cottonwood Heights General Plan:
“The primary vision of the Cottonwood Heights General Plan is to ensure that these qualities are
maintained and preserved. The community likes Cottonwood Heights the way it is, and the intent
of the General Plan is to protect the characteristics of the city that residents value. In general, the
General Plan carries forward the status quo, while recommending selected improvements to
enhance specific attributes of the city and the services it provides.”
-Section 1.4, Community Vision Statement, Cottonwood Heights General Plan

Thank you to the members of the City Council, Planning Commission, and city staff for your
time and consideration of this application. I sincerely appreciate the work you do for our city,
and I am grateful for the opportunity to present a proposal that is meaningful to my family.

I respectfully believe this proposal is consistent with the vision of Cottonwood Heights and
represents a thoughtful, family-centered approach to helping preserve the character, quality, and
long-term stability of the neighborhood and community.
Application ZMA-26-002
Appendix 2
Applicant: Jordan and Brooke Brady


The below map and chart illustrate that the Zoning Map Amendment proposal is
compatible with the character of the existing lot sizes in the RR-1-21 zoning area.

RR-1-21 ZONING MAP

   •   RED = LEGAL NON-CONFORMING (32/57 or 56%)
          o Do not meet the minimum lot size, or do not meet the minimum lot width.
   •   GREEN = CONFORMING LOTS (25/57 or 44%)
   •   ORANGE = NOT PART OF THE RR-1-21 ZONING AREA.
   •   BLACK DOT = LOT UNDER CONSIDERATION
5/28/26, 11:29 AM                                                              Print Preview


 19.23 R-1-15 - Residential Single-Family Zone
 19.23.010 Purpose
 19.23.020 Permitted Uses
 19.23.030 Conditional Uses
 19.23.040 Minimum Lot Size
 19.23.050 Minimum Lot Width
 19.23.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements
 19.23.070 Maximum Height Of Structures
 19.23.080 Maximum Lot Coverage
 19.23.090 Open Space Requirement

 19.23.010 Purpose

 The purpose of the R-1-15 zone is to allow for the establishment of single-family homes organized in
 low-density residential neighborhoods characteristic of traditional suburban residential developments.

 19.23.020 Permitted Uses

 Permitted uses in the R-1-15 zone are as follows:

       A. Single-family detached dwellings; and
       B. Accessory buildings customary to single-family housing.

 19.23.030 Conditional Uses

 Conditional uses in the R-1-15 zone are as follows:

       A. Churches and private non-profit recreational grounds associated with that use;
       B. Planned unit developments;
       C. Public and quasi-public uses;
       D. Wireless telecommunication towers; and
       E. Home occupations.

 19.23.040 Minimum Lot Size

 The minimum lot size in the R-1-15 zone is 15,000 square feet.

 19.23.050 Minimum Lot Width

 The minimum lot width in the R-1-15 zone is 80 feet measured 20 feet from the front lot line.

 19.23.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements

       A. Setbacks/yard requirements are intended to provide a description of the required space
          between buildings and property lines. The primary buildings shall maintain a minimum distance
          from property lines as follows:
                    1. Front: 25 feet.
                    2. Sides: 10 feet on interior lots, 20 feet on the street side of corner lots.
                    3. Rear: 20 feet.
https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.23_R-1-15_-_Residential_Single-Family_Zone   1/2
5/28/26, 11:29 AM                                                              Print Preview


       B. Accessory buildings in the R-1-15 zone shall maintain a minimum distance from property lines
          as follows:
                    1. Front: Accessory buildings, including detached garages, shall maintain a setback of at
                       least six feet from the primary building in the rear yard of the particular property.
                    2. Sides: Three feet on interior lots; 20 feet on the street side of corner lots.
                    3. Rear: Three feet on interior lots; 20 feet on the street side of corner lots.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 429 on 1/7/2025

 19.23.070 Maximum Height Of Structures

       A. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
          stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.
       B. All other properties shall maintain a maximum structure height of 35 feet.
       C. No accessory structure shall exceed 20 feet in height. For each foot of height over 14 feet,
          accessory structures shall be set back from property lines an additional foot from the minimum
          setback to allow a maximum height of 20 feet.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.23.080 Maximum Lot Coverage

 The maximum lot coverage in the R-1-15 zone is 50%, which includes all structures, except portions of
 those properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot coverage
 shall be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.

 HISTORY
 Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

 19.23.090 Open Space Requirement

 The minimum open space requirement for developments over five acres in the R-1-15 zone is ten
 percent for standard subdivisions. For PUD’s, the minimum open space shall be determined by the
 planning commission, but shall not be less than 15%.




https://cottonwoodheights.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=19.23_R-1-15_-_Residential_Single-Family_Zone   2/2
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
June 3, 2026


Summary
Project Number:
ADU-26-001

Subject Property:
2982 E. 7375 S.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Permit for
Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit

Applicant:
Zacharias Payne

Recommendation:
Approve




Context
Property Owner:
Zacharias Payne

Property Size:
0.30 Acres

Parcel:
22-26-177-007-0000

Zoning:
Residential Single-Family (R-1-8)




                                    1
                                                                 Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                                                                Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.



Overview
The applicant has requested approval of a detached accessory dwelling unit (ADU) in the rear yard of
2982 E. 7375 S. The proposed ADU includes an approximately 800-square-foot footprint, a height ranging
from approximately 10 to 15 feet, and will be affixed to a permanent foundation. Required parking for
the ADU will be provided adjacent to the proposed structure.




                                        Proposed ADU Exterior




                                          Concept Image
                                                                                                    2
                          Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                         Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.




Subject Property Rear Yard




                                                           3
                                           Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                                          Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.




Aerial Image of Subject Property with Approximate Location of
                        Proposed ADU


                                                                            4
                                                                   Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                                                                  Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.




Analysis
Use Analysis
Detached Accessory Dwelling Units are allowed as conditional uses in the city’s R-1 (single-family), RR-1
(rural residential), and F-1 (foothill residential) zones. The subject property is zoned R-1-8, which is an
eligible zone. Below is a summary of the main ADU use regulations.

Number of ADUs on Site
    •   Requirement: Only one ADU may be created per property.
    •   Project Compliance: The proposed ADU is the only ADU on site.

Owner Occupancy
    •   Requirement: The property owner must occupy the main home or the approved ADU as their
        permanent residence, and can at no time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit.
    •   Project Compliance: The property owner and project applicant, Zacharias Payne, will continue to
        occupy the main home. He has provided a signed affidavit which documents his commitment to
        comply with this regulation.

Short-Term Rental of ADUs
    •   Requirement: ADUs cannot be utilized as short-term rentals.
    •   Project Compliance: When staff reviewed the application, the applicant confirmed that the ADU
        will not be used as a short-term rental.

Site Analysis
Staff has conducted an initial review of the proposed ADU and finds no significant issues that conflict
with a recommendation of approval. A building permit must be obtained for the construction of the
ADU, at which point all departments review for building code and zoning compliance. Below is a
summary of key ADU development regulations.
General Code Compliance
    •   Requirement: ADUs must meet the current applicable standards for building, plumbing,
        electrical, mechanical, fire, and health code.
    •   Project Compliance: No conflicts with these codes were identified during staff’s review. The
        applicant will be required to obtain an approved building permit, which will formally confirm
        code compliance.
Permanent Structure
    •   Requirement: Detached ADUs must be a permanent structure. Trailers, mobile homes, and other
        portable structures shall not be permitted as detached ADUs.
    •   Project Compliance: The proposed ADU will be affixed to a permanent foundation.



                                                                                                              5
                                                                 Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                                                                Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.

Utility Meters
    •    Requirement: The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited.
    •    Project Compliance: No separate utility meters are proposed. All utility hookups must be
         reviewed and approved by utility providers during the building permit process.

ADU Location
    •    Requirement: All detached ADUs must be located in the rear yard of the subject property.
    •    Project Compliance: The proposed ADU meets this requirement.

Lot Coverage
    •    Requirement: In the underlying zone, there is a maximum total lot coverage of 50%, and a
         maximum rear yard coverage of 25%.
    •    Project Compliance: Including the proposed ADU, the total lot coverage is less than 50%, and
         the rear yard coverage is less than 25%.

Setbacks
    •    Requirement: The proposed ADU must meet the same setbacks as primary dwellings in the
         underlying zone.
    •    Project Compliance: The proposed ADU meets, and even exceeds, the required minimum
         setbacks for the R-1-8 zone.

Height
    •    Requirement: The maximum height allowed for detached ADUs is 20 ft.
    •    Project Compliance: The proposed ADU is 10-15 ft.

Buffering
    •    Requirement: Applicants must provide a fencing and or landscaping buffer between the ADU
         and the adjacent neighboring lot.
    •    Project Compliance: There is an existing 6 ft fence with opaque vegetation running along the
         east property line between the ADU and the adjacent lot.

Parking
    •    Requirement: Detached ADUs must have two off-street parking stalls in addition to the two
         required for the primary single-family home.
    •    Project Compliance: The applicant will provide two ADU parking spaces in the backyard adjacent
         to the ADU structure.

Staff Findings
Staff finds the proposed ADU meets the relevant use and development standards. Findings include:

•   The proposed use described in the report is allowed as a conditional use in the R-1-8 (Residential
    Single-Family) Zone.
•   The proposed use will be required to continually meet the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.75,
    “Accessory Dwelling Units,” of the Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance.

                                                                                                         6
                                                                   Planning Commission – June 3, 2026
                                                                  Project ADU-26-001 – 2982 E. 7375 S.

•   The proposed use will be required to continually meet the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.84,
    “Conditional Uses,” of the Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance.
•   A public hearing will be held in accordance with local and state requirements.
•   Proper notice of the public hearing was given.
•   Landscaping and fencing have been provided to mitigate the impact of parking areas and ADU
    entrances from adjoining property owners.
•   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort, order, or general welfare of
    persons residing or working in the vicinity.
•   The proposed use will comply with the intent, spirit and regulations of the city zoning ordinance and
    general plan.
•   Nuisances related to traffic, parking, lighting, and noise will be abated by the conditions imposed.
•   The applicant will be required to comply with all imposed conditions.
•   The protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be assured.



Recommendation & Model Motions
Recommendation and Conditions
Staff recommends approval of this project, subject to the following conditions:
    1. Applicant shall obtain an approved building permit for the construction of the ADU, including a
       passed final inspection which confirms the ADUs compliance with all relevant codes.
    2. Applicant shall obtain an approved city business license to act as the landlord for the ADU.

Model Motions
Approval

I move to approve project ADU-26-001, with the conditions and based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated June 3, 2026…

    •    Add any additional findings for approval…
    •    Add any additional conditions for approval…
    •    Adjust any conditions from the staff report if needed…

Denial

I move to deny project ADU-26-001, based on the following findings…

    •    List findings for denial




                                                                                                          7
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING
STAFF REPORT
June 3, 2026

Summary
Project #:
CUP-26-007

Subject Property:
7136 S 1700 East

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval for a
rectory

Applicants:
Sasha Urano, Authorized Agent

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions




                                                       Aerial View

Context
Property Owners:
James Litton, Wasatch Anglican
Fellowship

Address & Parcel #:
7136 S 1700 East
22-28-129-004-0000

Acres:
±1.19

Zoning:
R-1-18 Residential Single-Family
Zone


                                   View of existing structure (rectory) from parking lot
                                        Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                            June 3, 2026


Request
St. John's Anglican Church requests approval of a Conditional Use Permit to construct a rectory accessory to
the existing church located at 7136 South 1700 East.

Pursuant to CHMC 19.04.520, a rectory is defined as:

        "A place of residence for ministers, priests, nuns or rabbis."

Rectories are identified as a conditional use within the R-1-8 Residential Zone and therefore require
approval by the Planning Commission pursuant to CHMC 19.84. The proposed rectory will serve as a
residence for the church's priest and family and provide long-term housing for future clergy associated with
the church. The residence will be located on church-owned property and function as an accessory use to
the principal church use.

Background/Summary
The subject property contains an existing church building, associated parking facilities, and an existing
residential structure located within the southern portion of the site. Based on staff's understanding and
discussions with the applicant, the existing residential structure historically served as a rectory for previous
congregations occupying the property. However, due to the age and deteriorated condition of the building,
the structure is no longer suitable for residential occupancy and is proposed to be demolished and
replaced. The proposed project will continue the historic residential use of this portion of the property
while improving the site's overall appearance and functionality.

The existing church building contains approximately 3,964 square feet, consisting of a 2,764-square-foot
main floor and a 1,200-square-foot basement. The proposed replacement rectory contains approximately
3,270 square feet and will remain subordinate to the principal church building.

The proposed rectory is designed as a single-story, slab-on-grade residence with a maximum height of
approximately twenty-two (22) feet measured to the peak of the roof. The dwelling contains five bedrooms
and three bathrooms and features a modest residential architectural design utilizing materials commonly
found throughout the surrounding neighborhood, including horizontal siding, asphalt shingles, and a
traditional gable roof form. The applicant states the roof pitch was intentionally selected to complement
the architectural character of the existing church building.

Parking for the residence is provided through an attached two-car garage and an attached two-vehicle
carport, resulting in four dedicated off-street parking spaces. This exceeds the City's minimum requirement
of two off-street parking spaces for a single-family detached dwelling.

The applicant states the rectory will function solely as a residence and will not contain church offices,
employees, business operations, or other activities beyond those normally associated with a single-family
residence.




                                                                                                Page 2 of 11
                                        Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                            June 3, 2026


Property Description
The subject property is developed with an existing church, parking facilities, and an accessory residential
structure located within the southern portion of the site. Based on staff's understanding, the existing
residential structure historically functioned as a rectory serving clergy associated with previous
congregations that occupied the property. The structure has fallen into a significant state of disrepair and is
no longer considered habitable.

The applicant proposes to demolish the existing structure and replace it with a new rectory intended to
provide long-term housing for the church's priest and future clergy members. Redevelopment of this
portion of the site will also remove an aging structure and improve an area currently characterized by
deteriorated improvements and overgrown landscaping.

Adjacent Land Uses

 Direction                     Zoning                    Existing Land Use

 North                         R-1-8                     Single-Family Residential

 South                         R-1-8                     Single-Family Residential

 East                          R-1-8                     Single-Family Residential

 West                          R-1-8                     Single-Family Residential


Applicable Code
CHMC 19.04.520 – Church, Rectory or Temple

Defined as: " A building for regular assembly for religious worship which is used primarily and designed for
such purpose and those accessory activities which are customarily associated therewith, and the place of
residence for ministers, priests, nuns or rabbis on the premises (tax exempt as defined by state law).."

CHMC 19.34 – R-1-8 Residential Zone

Rectories are permitted as a conditional use within the R-1-8 Residential Zone.

CHMC 19.84 – Conditional Uses

Conditional uses may be approved when the Planning Commission finds that the proposed use complies
with applicable zoning regulations and can be operated in a manner that protects public health, safety,
welfare, and neighboring properties.




                                                                                               Page 3 of 11
                                    Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                        June 3, 2026


Zoning Map




                      Subject property is located within the R-1-8 zoning district

Analysis
Development Standards
Applicable Development Standards

The Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code defines a rectory as a conditional use within the R-1-8
Residential Zone; however, the Municipal Code does not establish specific dimensional or
development standards applicable to rectories, including setbacks, building height, lot coverage,
building placement, or parking requirements.

In the absence of specific standards, staff evaluated the proposal using the development standards
applicable to principal structures within the underlying R-1-8 Residential Zone. Staff finds this
approach appropriate because a rectory functions as a permanent residence and is intended to
                                                                                       Page 4 of 11
                                     Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                         June 3, 2026

provide housing for clergy and their families. Applying the standards of the base zone is more
restrictive than applying the standards generally associated with accessory structures and results in a
development pattern that is more consistent with surrounding residential development.

Building Design and Height

The proposed rectory consists of a single-story, slab-on-grade dwelling containing approximately
3,270 square feet of living area, five bedrooms, and three bathrooms. The structure has a maximum
height of approximately twenty-two (22) feet measured to the peak of the roof, which is substantially
below the maximum building height of thirty-five (35) feet permitted within the R-1-8 Zone.

The proposed architectural design incorporates residential building forms and materials commonly
found throughout the neighborhood, including horizontal siding, asphalt shingles, and a traditional
gable roof design. The residence is modest in appearance and scale and remains subordinate to the
principal church building located on the property.

Setbacks and Lot Configuration

Based on the submitted site plan, the proposed rectory complies with all applicable setback
requirements of the R-1-8 Zone. The structure is setback approximately thirty (30) feet from the
perceived front property line (edge of church parking lot), one hundred one (101) feet from the rear
property line, eight (8) feet from the eastern side property line, and thirteen (13) feet from the western
side property line. These setbacks meet or exceed the minimum setback requirements established for
principal structures within the zone and provide adequate separation from neighboring properties.

Although the property is not proposed for subdivision, the proposed site layout demonstrates that the
rectory is situated on a portion of the property that could function as a conforming residential lot if
separated from the church property in the future. The area occupied by the rectory has a lot width of
approximately ninety-four feet seven inches (94'-7"), which exceeds the minimum lot width
requirement of seventy (70) feet established for the R-1-8 Zone. Combined with the proposed
setbacks and building placement, the site layout reflects a development pattern consistent with that
of a legal residential lot under current zoning standards.

Parking

Parking associated with the rectory exceeds the City's minimum residential parking requirements. The
residence includes an attached two-car garage and an attached two-vehicle carport, providing a total
of four dedicated off-street parking spaces for the occupants of the dwelling. This exceeds the
minimum requirement of two off-street parking spaces for a single-family detached dwelling and
ensures adequate parking is available without reliance on church parking facilities.

Landscaping

The submitted site plan identifies landscaping within the front, side, and rear yard areas surrounding
the proposed residence. The conceptual landscape layout demonstrates the applicant's intent to
provide landscaped open space consistent with the character of the surrounding neighborhood and to
soften the visual appearance of the development.



                                                                                          Page 5 of 11
                                      Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                          June 3, 2026

Because detailed landscape information has not been submitted as part of the conditional use
application, staff recommends that a detailed landscaping and irrigation plan be submitted as part of
the building permit review process. This will allow staff to verify compliance with all applicable
landscaping, irrigation, and screening requirements of the Municipal Code and ensure the final
landscape design provides an appropriate transition between the rectory and adjacent residential
properties.

Utilities

The submitted site plan identifies existing utility connections serving the existing residential structure
proposed for demolition. Based on staff's review of the site plan, the existing water, sewer, and
electrical services appear to be stubbed into the property from the southern portion of the site and
appear to function independently from the utility services currently serving the church building.

The apparent existence of separate utility connections supporting the existing residential structure
suggests that utility infrastructure has historically been available to serve a residential use in this
location. While the final design and adequacy of all utility connections will be verified during the
building permit review process, the information provided indicates that public utility services are
available to support the proposed rectory.

Any modifications to existing utility infrastructure, new service connections, relocation of facilities, or
utility upgrades required by the applicable utility providers shall be reviewed and approved through
the building permit process. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining all required approvals
from the City and applicable utility agencies prior to construction.

Staff Analysis

Based on the proposed setbacks, building height, lot configuration, parking provisions, landscaping,
and overall site design, staff finds the proposed rectory complies with the dimensional standards of
the R-1-8 Residential Zone and is compatible with the scale, intensity, and character of surrounding
residential development. Additionally, the proposal reflects a development pattern that would be
consistent with a conforming residential lot under current zoning regulations, further supporting its
compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood.

Conditional Use Standards (CHMC 19.84)
Staff have further evaluated the request based on the standards set forth in CHMC 19.84 and find the
following:

1. The proposed use is specifically listed as a conditional use.
   The subject property is located within the R-1-8 Residential Zone. Pursuant to CHMC 19.04.520, a
   rectory is defined as a "place of residence for ministers, priests, nuns or rabbis." Rectories are
   specifically identified as a conditional use within the R-1-8 Zone and may be approved by the
   Planning Commission through the conditional use permit process.

   Staff Finding: This criterion has been satisfied.

2. The use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
   The proposed rectory will function as a single-family residence occupied by clergy associated with
   the existing church. The use does not include commercial activities, employee workspaces, public
                                                                                        Page 6 of 11
                                     Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                         June 3, 2026

  assembly areas, or other operations that would create impacts beyond those normally associated
  with a residential dwelling. The property is served by existing public streets and utilities, and all
  applicable building, fire, engineering, and life-safety requirements will be reviewed during the
  building permit process.

  Staff Finding: The proposed use is not anticipated to be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort,
  order, or general welfare of nearby residents or property owners.

3. The use is consistent with the intent and planning objectives of the City.
   The Municipal Code expressly contemplates rectories as an appropriate conditional use within R-1-
   8 residential zoning districts. The proposal provides housing for clergy associated with an existing
   religious institution while maintaining a residential appearance and scale consistent with the
   surrounding neighborhood. Although the Municipal Code does not establish specific development
   standards for rectories, staff evaluated the proposal using the standards applicable to principal
   structures within the R-1-8 Zone, ensuring compliance with the intent and purpose of the zoning
   ordinance.

  The proposal supports the City's planning objectives by encouraging orderly development,
  maintaining neighborhood character, and allowing institutional uses specifically contemplated by
  the zoning ordinance to function effectively within residential areas.

  Staff Finding: The proposal complies with the intent and spirit of the zoning ordinance and is
  consistent with the City's planning goals and objectives.

4. The use will be harmonious with neighboring residential uses.
   The proposed rectory is residential in character and similar in scale and appearance to surrounding
   single-family homes. The structure is designed as a single-story dwelling with a maximum height of
   approximately twenty-two (22) feet and includes architectural materials and forms commonly
   found throughout the neighborhood. The use itself will function as a residence and is compatible
   with surrounding residential properties.

  Additionally, staff understands that the existing structure on the property historically served as a
  rectory for previous congregations. Therefore, the proposal represents a continuation and
  modernization of an established residential use rather than the introduction of a new or
  incompatible land use.

  Staff Finding: The proposed rectory will be harmonious with neighboring residential uses.

5. Potential nuisances can be mitigated through conditions.
   The proposed use is not anticipated to generate nuisances such as excessive noise, traffic, glare,
   odors, vibration, or other impacts beyond those normally associated with a single-family residence.
   Conditions of approval requiring compliance with building, engineering, lighting, landscaping, and
   site development requirements provide additional safeguards to ensure compatibility with adjacent
   properties.

  Staff Finding: Any potential impacts can be adequately mitigated through compliance with
  applicable regulations and conditions of approval.


                                                                                          Page 7 of 11
                                     Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                         June 3, 2026

6. Property values, environmental quality, and the City’s tax base will be protected.
   The proposal replaces an existing deteriorated and uninhabitable residential structure with a
   modern dwelling that is consistent with surrounding development patterns. Redevelopment of this
   portion of the property is expected to improve the overall appearance and condition of the site and
   maintain investment in the property. Staff is not aware of any environmental concerns associated
   with the proposal that cannot be addressed through standard development review and permitting
   processes.

  Staff Finding: The proposal is expected to maintain and potentially enhance surrounding property
  values while preserving the City's tax base and protecting environmental resources through
  compliance with applicable regulations.

7. The use is consistent with the City’s General Plan.
   The General Plan supports the preservation of stable residential neighborhoods while recognizing
   the role of institutional and community-serving uses that are compatible with surrounding
   development. The proposed rectory serves an existing religious institution and is designed to
   function as a residential use compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.

  Staff Finding: The proposal is consistent with the goals and policies of the City's General Plan.

8. Compliance guarantees may be imposed.
   Compliance with all conditions of approval will be required prior to occupancy of the structure.
   Building permits, inspections, and certificate of occupancy requirements provide an enforcement
   mechanism ensuring compliance with applicable conditions and regulations.

  Staff Finding: Compliance with all conditions of approval will be assured through the City's
  permitting and inspection processes.

9. Internal circulation and access are adequate.
    The proposed rectory utilizes existing site access and circulation patterns associated with the
    church property. Vehicular access to the residence is provided through existing driveways and
    parking areas. Staff finds the existing circulation network adequate to safely accommodate
    residential traffic associated with the proposed use.

  Staff Finding: Internal vehicular circulation is adequately designed to serve the proposed
  development.

10. Utilities and public services are adequate.
   The property is currently served by public water, sewer, storm drainage, power, and other utility
   services. Any required upgrades or service connections will be reviewed and approved through the
   building permit process and by applicable utility providers.

  Staff Finding: Adequate utility services are available to serve the proposed development.

11. Appropriate buffering is provided.
   The proposed use is residential in nature and therefore inherently compatible with surrounding
   residential properties. Existing setbacks, landscaping, and building placement provide separation
   from adjacent homes. Conditions of approval requiring downward-directed and shielded lighting
   will further minimize potential impacts on neighboring properties.
                                                                                         Page 8 of 11
                                      Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                          June 3, 2026

   Staff Finding: Appropriate buffering and site design measures are provided to protect adjacent
   land uses.

12. Architectural compatibility is maintained.
   The proposed rectory utilizes residential architectural elements and materials commonly found
   within the surrounding neighborhood, including horizontal siding, asphalt shingle roofing, and a
   traditional gable roof design. The scale and appearance of the structure are consistent with nearby
   residential development and compatible with the character of the area.

   Staff Finding: The architecture and building materials are compatible with surrounding
   development and applicable City standards.

13. Landscaping compliance is maintained.
   The applicant proposes redevelopment of a portion of the site currently characterized by
   deteriorated improvements and overgrown landscaping. Disturbed areas will be required to be
   landscaped and maintained in accordance with applicable City ordinances and development
   requirements.

   Staff Finding: Landscaping will be provided in compliance with applicable City requirements.

14. Historic and environmental features are preserved.
   Staff is not aware of any designated historic resources, significant architectural features, or
   sensitive environmental resources located within the proposed development area. The proposal
   replaces an aging structure that is no longer habitable while maintaining the longstanding
   residential use historically associated with this portion of the church property.

   Staff Finding: The proposal does not adversely affect known historical, architectural, or
   environmental resources.

15. Operating hours are compatible with surrounding uses.
   The proposed rectory is a residential use and does not involve commercial operations, scheduled
   deliveries, customer traffic, or business hours. Activity associated with the residence will be
   consistent with that of surrounding single-family homes.

   Staff Finding: Operating characteristics of the proposed use are compatible with adjacent
   residential properties.

Noticing
Notice of the public hearing was mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property at least
10 days prior to the public hearing, in accordance with CHMC §19.84.050.




                                                                                            Page 9 of 11
                                     Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                         June 3, 2026


Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
Based upon the application materials, site characteristics, and review of applicable City ordinances,
staff recommends the Planning Commission adopt the following findings:

   1. The proposed use meets the definition of a rectory as established in CHMC 19.04.520 and is
       an allowed conditional use within the R-1-8 Residential Zone.
   2. The proposed rectory is accessory and subordinate to the principal church use located on the
       property and will serve as a residence for clergy associated with St. John's Anglican Church.
   3. Although the Municipal Code does not establish specific development standards for rectories,
       the proposed structure complies with the applicable development standards of the underlying
       R-1-8 Residential Zone. Application of the base zone standards provides a more restrictive
       review framework than standards typically applicable to accessory structures and ensures
       compatibility with surrounding residential development.
   4. The proposed rectory is designed as a single-story residential dwelling with a maximum height
       of approximately twenty-two (22) feet and includes four dedicated off-street parking spaces,
       exceeding the City's minimum parking requirements for a single-family detached dwelling.
   5. The proposed use is residential in character and is compatible with the surrounding
       neighborhood with respect to building scale, architecture, traffic generation, and intensity of
       use.
   6. The proposed rectory will not create adverse impacts related to noise, lighting, odor, traffic,
       public safety, or other nuisances beyond those typically associated with a single-family
       residence.
   7. Adequate public facilities, utilities, access, drainage facilities, and infrastructure are available
       to serve the proposed use.
   8. Redevelopment of the southern portion of the property will replace an existing deteriorated
       residential structure and improve the overall appearance and functionality of the site,
       contributing positively to the surrounding neighborhood.
   9. The proposed rectory will replace an existing residential structure that historically functioned
       as clergy housing on the property. The replacement of the deteriorated and uninhabitable
       structure will continue the longstanding residential use of this portion of the site while
       improving the condition and appearance of the property.
   10. Subject to the conditions of approval contained herein, the proposed rectory satisfies the
       intent and requirements of CHMC 19.84 governing conditional uses and will not be
       detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare.




                                                                                         Page 10 of 11
                                      Planning Commission Public Hearing Staff Report for CUP-26-007
                                                                                          June 3, 2026


Recommendation
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve Conditional Use Permit CUP-26-007 for a rectory
at 7136 South 1700 East, subject to the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval
   1. Development shall substantially conform to the site plan, floor plans, elevations, and narrative
      submitted with the application unless otherwise modified through City review and approval.
   2. The approved structure shall be used solely as a rectory serving clergy associated with St. John's
      Anglican Church and shall remain accessory to the principal church use.
   3. Any future conversion of the structure to another use shall require review and approval by the City
      and may require additional land use approvals.
   4. The rectory shall comply with all applicable development standards of the R-1-8 Residential Zone,
      including setbacks, building height limitations, lot coverage requirements, and other applicable
      zoning regulations.
   5. The applicant shall obtain all required building permits and comply with all applicable building, fire,
      engineering, utility, stormwater, and public works requirements prior to commencement of
      construction.
   6. Exterior lighting shall be downward-directed and shielded to minimize impacts on adjacent
      residential properties.
   7. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall submit a detailed landscaping and
      irrigation plan for review and approval by City staff. All landscaping shall be installed and
      maintained in accordance with applicable provisions of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
   8. Any modifications required by the Building Official, Fire Marshal, City Engineer, or other reviewing
      agencies to ensure compliance with applicable codes shall be completed prior to issuance of a
      building permit or a certificate of occupancy.

Model Motions
Approval
I move that the Planning Commission approve Conditional Use Permit CUP-26-007 for a rectory at
7136 South 1700 East, based upon the findings contained in the staff report and subject to the
conditions of approval listed therein
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-26-007, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1. Applicant Narrative
   2. Plan Set



                                                                                            Page 11 of 11
  Attachment - A
Applicant Narrative
                                                     Project Narrative

         In May 2025, St. John's Anglican Church was given the church building and property at 7136 S 1700 E by
their former owner Mountain Springs Community Church. Now, a year later, having settled into its new permanent
address, St. John’s Anglican Church is desiring to put roots down in its new Cottonwood Heights home, and to set
long-term goals for the future. Thus far, the pre-existing church building has served the congregation well—as a house
of worship, as offices for the clergy and staff, and as a community center. However, other areas of the property are
showing serious untapped potential.

The entire southern panhandle of the lot continues to be an eyesore not just to churchgoers but to the many neighboring
residents whose homes look directly onto this part of the property. Situated at the rear of the panhandle is a shoddily
built, one-story concrete block structure that appears to have fallen into a state of disrepair a long time ago. Its cramped
side and rear yards are overgrown, and the area in front of it—which appears to have been at one time a beach
volleyball court—is now a large, ugly pile of sand, weeds and debris.

This proposal seeks to revive and beautify this portion of the lot by transforming it into a residence for the priest of St.
John’s Anglican Church and his family, whose 40-mile commute from their current home in Layton is unsustainable.

Under the Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance the proposed residence would be a "rectory"—that is, a “place of
residence for ministers, priests, nuns or rabbis”—and would be accessory to the main church building (see definition in
CH Municipal Code 19.04.520).

While the zoning ordinance does not address size regulations for rectories, according to discussions and preliminary
design reviews with the Cottonwood Heights planning staff and the Community Development Director, the size of the
proposed rectory "is acceptable so long as the structure remains smaller than and incidental to the primary structure (the
church)." (Refer to email from Sheldon Howa dated April 8, 2026) The church is 3,964 sq ft. (main floor 2,764 sq ft. +
basement 1,200 sq ft.), and the proposed rectory is 3,270 sq ft.

The proposed rectory has been designed to be simple and dignified in appearance, and to harmonize with its context in
a few key ways:

    1.​ Through careful siting relative to its immediate neighbors so as to maintain generous spacing between itself
        and nearby homes;
    2.​ Through the use of materials that are commonly found on many of the homes in this neighborhood, including
        asphalt shingle roofing and horizontal board siding; and
    3.​ Through the use of a traditional symmetrically-pitched gable roof whose slope angle echoes that of the church
        building’s roof.

As a residence, the use of the rectory would not involve any business activities and would not pose any potential
nuisances (noise, odor, etc.) other than those that might be expected of any typical single-family residence. There
would be no employees in the rectory as the main church building already fulfills all functional needs of the church’s
business operations, including workspaces for the staff.

St. John’s Anglican Church is interested in long-term goals aimed toward its establishment as a welcome resident in
this neighborhood and as a much needed service for the community of Cottonwood Heights and the Salt Lake area
more broadly. This proposed rectory should be thought of as a home not just for the current priest of St. John's
Anglican Church but for all future clergy members who will become the caretakers of this property in generations to
come.
Attachment - B
      Plan Set
                                                   Legend




                                                   NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION


                                                   Conditional Use Permit Application Set Revised                      05/13/2026
                                                   Conditional Use Permit Application Set                              04/28/2026
                                                   Site Plan Draft for City Comments                                   03/02/2026
                                                   Client
                                                   Saint John's Anglican Church
                                                   7136 S 1700 E
                                                   Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                                                   Tel: (909) 851-5828

                                                   Architect
                                                   Sasha Urano
                                                   360 W Broadway #228
                                                   Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                                                   Tel: (609) 933-4653




                                                   © 2026 Sasha Urano
                                                   These drawings and specifications, including the design and arrangement
                                                   represeneted herein, are the property of Sasha Urano. No part shall be copied,
                                                   disclosed to others, or used in conjunction with any work other than that for which
                                                   they have been prepared without the express consent of Sasha Urano.




                                                   Key Plan




                                                   Project                                                                     2601


                                                   St. John's Anglican
                                                   Church Rectory
                                                   Title


        Drawing Index:                             Conditional Use Permit
C-000   Cover Sheet/ Drawing Index   N.T.S.
                                                   Application Set
A       Architectural
A-100   Site Plan                    1"=20'-0"
A-110   Floor Plan                   3/16"=1'-0"   Scale                                                                 As Noted
A-111   Roof Plan                    3/16"=1'-0"
A-200
A-210
        Elevations
        Sections
                                     3/16"=1'-0"
                                     3/16"=1'-0"
                                                   Sheet
                                                                                                                     C-000
                                                                                                                                                             E Shadow Cv




                                       7136 S 1700 E
                                    (E) Church Building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Legend
                                  to Remain, No Change
                                  One Story + Basement
                                           3,964 SF
                                        (1F: 2,764 sf)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EM             ELECTRIC METER
                                         (B: 1,200 sf)
                                      Not Sprinklered                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EP            ELECTRIC PANEL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GM             GAS METER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WM             WATER METER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WC             WATER CONNECTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SC             SEWER CLEANOUT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PP            POWER POLE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E            ELECTRIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G            GAS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S            SEWER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W            WATER
                                                                                                                                                  (E) Parking Lot to Remain, No Change, Protect During Construction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DA            DATA
                                                                                                                                                  (E) Landscaping to Remain, No Change, Protect During Construction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (E) Fence/ Trash Area to Remain, No Change, Protect During Construction


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Conditional Use Permit Application Set Revised                      05/13/2026
                                                                                                (N) Landscaping                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Conditional Use Permit Application Set                              04/28/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Site Plan Draft for City Comments                                   03/02/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  130.28' PL
                                      7136 S 1700 E                                                                                                                                                                                        (E) Landscaping to Remain
                                       (N) Rectory                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Client
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (E) Curb/ Pavement to Remain                                                         Saint John's Anglican Church




                                                                                                              Min. 2% Slope




                                                                                                                                                                     Min. 2% Slope
                                        One-Story




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 1700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7136 S 1700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (E) Curb to be Demolished                                                            Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                                         3,270 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tel: (909) 851-5828
                                     Not Sprinklered
                                  Type V-B Construction                                                                                                                                                                                    (N) Curb/ Pavement to Match Existing                                                 Architect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sasha Urano
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'-0"                                                                                                                        360 W Broadway #228
3,270 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tel: (609) 933-4653
                                                                                                      B
                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                      L
                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                      T
                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                      U
                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                      C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (N) Attached Carport




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Attached Carport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23'-4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                © 2026 Sasha Urano
                                                                                               EM                                               EP                                                                                                                                                                              These drawings and specifications, including the design and arrangement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                represeneted herein, are the property of Sasha Urano. No part shall be copied,
2,534 SF                        (N) Fence/ Gate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 disclosed to others, or used in conjunction with any work other than that for which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                they have been prepared without the express consent of Sasha Urano.

                                                                                                                                                                                         DA
                                                                                                                                                                 GM                                                                        (N) Fence/ Gate




                                                         Rectory
                                                          63'-5"
                                                                                     Min. 2%                                                                     WM
                                                                                       Slope
                                                                                       1'-4"                                                                               1'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40'-0"
                                                                                       Eave                                                                                Eave
                                                                                                                                                                                         Min. 2%
                                                                                                                                                                                         Slope
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Line of exterior wall beneath roof                                                   Key Plan

                                                                        198.08' PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                           194.54' PL
                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                (N) Canopy above                                                                                                                                     G
                                window/ door, Typ.




                                                                                                                              Min. 2% Slope
                                (N) Deck

                                                                                      E                                                                                                                                                    (E) Curb/ Pavement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to be Demolished



                                                                                                                                              (N) Landscaping
                                                         101'-2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        101'-2"
                                                                                                          S
                                (E) 1" Water connection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Project                                                                     2601
                                found behind pre-existing
                                structure

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (E) Building to be Demolished                                                        St. John's Anglican
                                                                   PP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Church Rectory
                                (E) 3-1/2" Sewer                                                                                                                                                                                           (E) 1" Gas line found behind
                                cleanout found behind                                                                                                                                                                                      pre-existing structure
                                pre-existing structure                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Title
                                                                                               SC                                               WC

                                                                                                                                                 94.69' PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Site Plan
                                                                                      13'-1"                                   51'-7"                                     22'-0"                   8'-0"
                                                                                                                              Rectory                                Attached Carport



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Scale                                                                 As Noted


      1    Site Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A-100
           Scale: 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                 4         2                                    5
                                                                                               A-210     A-200                                A-210




                                                                                               51'-7"                                                           2'-6"                       19'-4"

                                                        19'-10"                                 9'-3"                               19'-10"



                                                                                                Grade
                                                                                                +0'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Legend
                                                  B
                                                  M
                                                  O
                                                  D
                                                  E
                                                  L
                                                  N
                                                  R
                                                  T
                                                  A
                                                  C
                                                  U
                                                  P




                                                                                                T.O. Slab
                                                                                                +1'-0"




                           10'-0"
                                                        Kitchen
                                                         002

      3                                                                                                                                                                               3
    A-210                                                                                                                                                                           A-210

                                                                                                                                    Garage




                                                                                                                                                                                                     23'-0 1/2"
                                                                                                                                      017




                                                                                            Entry Hallway
                                                                                                001




                           11'-7 1/2"
                                                      Dining Room
                                                         003



                                                                                                Fin. Floor                          Garage
                                                                                                +1'-0 1/2"                          +0'-0"




                                        Bedroom                                  Bathroom                        Bathroom                             Bedroom

                           12'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                        12'-0"
      2                                                                                                                                                                               2
    A-210                                 006                                      004                              007                                 008                         A-210
              63'-4 1/2"


      3                                                                                                                                                                               4
    A-200                                                                                                                                                                           A-200
                                                                  Water Heater
                                                                      005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION




                                                                                                                                                                        2'-1 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Conditional Use Permit Application Set Revised                      05/13/2026
                                                                                                                             Closet                                                                               Conditional Use Permit Application Set                              04/28/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Site Plan Draft for City Comments                                   03/02/2026
                                                                                                                              015
                                                                            Utility Room                         Bathroom                                                                                         Client
                                                                                            Sitting Room
                                                                                 010                               016                                Bedroom                                                     Saint John's Anglican Church
                                                                                                009                                                                                                               7136 S 1700 E




                                                                                                                                                                        9'-9"
                                                                                                                                                        014                                                       Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
      1                                                                                                                                                                               1                           Tel: (909) 851-5828
    A-210                                                                                                                                                                           A-210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Architect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sasha Urano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  360 W Broadway #228
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tel: (609) 933-4653
                           27'-1"




                                                                                                                                                                        4'-1"
                                                      Living Room
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  © 2026 Sasha Urano
                                                         011                                                                                                                                                      These drawings and specifications, including the design and arrangement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  represeneted herein, are the property of Sasha Urano. No part shall be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  disclosed to others, or used in conjunction with any work other than that for which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  they have been prepared without the express consent of Sasha Urano.




                                                                                                                   Bedroom                            Bedroom




                                                                                                                                                                        10'-0"
                                                                                                                     012                                012


                                                                                                T.O. Slab
                                                                                                +1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Key Plan




                                                        19'-10"                                 9'-3"                               19'-10"




                                                                                                 4         1                                    5
                                                                                               A-210     A-200                                A-210                                                               Project                                                                     2601


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St. John's Anglican
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Church Rectory
1      Floor Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                 Title

       Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Floor Plan



                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Scale                                                                 As Noted


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A-110
                                                                                    4         2                    5
                                                                                  A-210     A-200                A-210




                                1'-5"                                             51'-7"                                        1'-5"
                                Eave                                                                                            Eave
                                                             16'-0"                 9'-3"               16'-0"




                                                         8" / 1'-0"




                                                                              8" / 1'-0"




                                                                                                    8" / 1'-0"
                   3'-2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Legend

                                                                                                                                                                     Notes
                                                     B
                                                     O
                                                     D
                                                     E
                                                     L
                                                     M
                                                     N
                                                     T
                                                     R
                                                     A
                                                     C
                                                     P
                                                     U




                                                                                                                                                                     1. Range Hood Exhaust Vent
                                                                                                                                                                     2. Chimney w Decorative Metal Shroud
            1                                                                                                                                                        3. Furnace Combustion Vent
                                                                                                                                                                     4. Water Heater Vent
                                                                                                                                                                     5. Plumbing Vent
                                                                                                                                                                     6. Skylight
      3                                                                                                                                           3
    A-210                                                                                                                                       A-210                7. N/A


                                                                                                                                        5" / 1'-0"      5" / 1'-0"



                                                                          6




      2                                                                                                                                           2
    A-210                                                                                                                                       A-210
                   63'-4 1/2"                                         5
      3                                 5" / 1'-0"                                                                 5" / 1'-0"                     4
    A-200                                                                                                                                       A-200
                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION

                                                                      3

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Conditional Use Permit Application Set Revised                      05/13/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Conditional Use Permit Application Set                              04/28/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Site Plan Draft for City Comments                                   03/02/2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Client
                                                                          6                                                                                                                                 Saint John's Anglican Church
                                                                                                                                                                                                            7136 S 1700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
      1                                                                                                                                           1                                                         Tel: (909) 851-5828
    A-210                                                                                                                                       A-210
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Architect
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sasha Urano
                                                                                                                                                                                                            360 W Broadway #228
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tel: (609) 933-4653




                                                                                                                                                                                                            © 2026 Sasha Urano
            2                                                                                                                                                                                               These drawings and specifications, including the design and arrangement
                                                                                                                                                                                                            represeneted herein, are the property of Sasha Urano. No part shall be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            disclosed to others, or used in conjunction with any work other than that for which
                                                                                                                                                                                                            they have been prepared without the express consent of Sasha Urano.




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Key Plan
                                                         8" / 1'-0"




                                                                              8" / 1'-0"




                                                                                                    8" / 1'-0"
                   3'-2"




                                                             16'-0"                 9'-3"               16'-0"




                                                                                    4         1                    5
                                                                                  A-210     A-200                A-210                                                                                      Project                                                                     2601


                                                                                                                                                                                                            St. John's Anglican
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Church Rectory
1      Roof Plan                                                                                                                                                                                            Title

       Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Roof Plan



                                                                                                                                                                                                            Scale                                                                 As Noted


                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A-111
                                                                                Legend

Roof Peak                               Roof Peak
+22'-0"                                 +22'-0"




T.O. Plate                              T.O. Plate
+9'-1"                                  +9'-1"




T.O. F.F.                               T.O. F.F.
+1'-0 1/2"                              +1'-0 1/2"
Grade                                   Grade
+0'-0"                                  +0'-0"




             4   East Elevation                      2   North Elevation
                 Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"                    Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"

                                                                                NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION


                                                                                Conditional Use Permit Application Set Revised                      05/13/2026
                                                                                Conditional Use Permit Application Set                              04/28/2026
                                                                                Site Plan Draft for City Comments                                   03/02/2026
                                                                                Client
                                                                                Saint John's Anglican Church
                                                                                7136 S 1700 E
                                                                                Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                                                                                Tel: (909) 851-5828

                                                                                Architect
                                                                                Sasha Urano
                                                                                360 W Broadway #228
                                                                                Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                                                                                Tel: (609) 933-4653




                                                                                © 2026 Sasha Urano
                                                                                These drawings and specifications, including the design and arrangement
Roof Peak                               Roof Peak                               represeneted herein, are the property of Sasha Urano. No part shall be copied,
                                                                                disclosed to others, or used in conjunction with any work other than that for which
+22'-0"                                 +22'-0"                                 they have been prepared without the express consent of Sasha Urano.




                                                                                Key Plan


T.O. Plate                              T.O. Plate
+9'-1"                                  +9'-1"




T.O. F.F.                               T.O. F.F.
+1'-0 1/2"                              +1'-0 1/2"
Grade                                   Grade
+0'-0"                                  +0'-0"




             3   West Elevation                      1   South Elevation        Project                                                                     2601

                 Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"                    Scale: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                St. John's Anglican
                                                                                Church Rectory
                                                                                Title


                                                                                Elevations



                                                                                Scale                                                                 As Noted


                                                                                Sheet
                                                                                                                                                   A-200
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT (WORK SESSION)
June 3, 2026

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-005

Subject Property:
6851 S. Big Cottonwood
Canyon Rd

Action Requested:
Review and discussion




                         Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Doug Shelby; WDOM
Properties LLC

Acreage:
0.86 acres




                               Google Street View
                                                           Planning Commission Work Session– June 3, 2026
                                                    Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd


Summary / Background
Staff has prepared this report to assist the Planning Commission in its ongoing review of the request
submitted by Doug Shelby to demolish the Old Mill, a locally and federally designated historic structure.
Pursuant to Section 19.86.040 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code, applications involving
designated historic sites must pend before the Planning Commission for a minimum period of one year
prior to a final decision.
The purpose of these work sessions is to provide both the applicant and the Planning Commission
sufficient time to gather, prepare, and review studies, historical records, technical reports, and other
relevant documentation related to the Old Mill structure. This phased review process is intended to
assist the Commission in developing a complete and well-supported record that will inform its eventual
recommendation and decision once the required pendency period has elapsed.
This report is intended to provide the Commission with an update regarding the status of applicant
submittals and other efforts being undertaken to continue development of the record.
On May 13, 2026, the applicant notified the City that no materials would be submitted for review at the
June 3, 2026, Planning Commission work session. As a result, the remaining topics included in the
applicant’s amended materials submittal schedule will be deferred by one month. Materials previously
anticipated for the June 2026 work session will now be presented at the July 2026 work session, and
materials previously anticipated for the July 2026 work session will now be presented at the August
2026 work session.
Additionally, the City is currently negotiating a professional services agreement with a qualified
consultant to perform an independent third-party analysis of the Old Mill structure. The purpose of this
review is to provide the City with an independent assessment of the building’s condition and
preservation-related considerations. Once contract negotiations have been completed and the
agreement has been approved by the City, staff will publicly identify the selected consultant and provide
additional information regarding the scope and schedule of the analysis.
Prior Applicant Submittals (May 6, 2026, Work Session)
For the May 6, 2026, work session, the applicant submitted materials intended to provide additional
context regarding the structural condition of the Old Mill, the feasibility of preservation, and potential
reuse of the structure. These materials included:

    •   Proposals for Use
    •   Research on Preservation of Historic Buildings
    •   Seismic Detail Summary
    •   Deseret Paper Mill / Assembly Hall Comparison
    •   Historical Restoration Contract Documents
    •   Submission to Mayor Bennion Regarding Retrofit, Remediation, and Rehabilitation

The submitted materials addressed historical reuse proposals, preservation research, seismic and
structural considerations, historical construction methods, and prior restoration efforts associated with
the Old Mill.

Commissioners are encouraged to review all previously submitted materials and prepare any questions
or clarification items for discussion during future work sessions.


                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
                                                           Planning Commission Work Session– June 3, 2026
                                                    Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd



Current Applicant Submittals
The applicant has informed staff that no additional materials were submitted for review as part of the
June 3, 2026, work session. Accordingly, there are no new applicant attachments associated with this
meeting.
Staff anticipates that future applicant submittals will continue in accordance with the revised schedule
outlined in the “Upcoming Work Session Submittals” section below.

Independent Third-Party Structural Analysis
As part of the City's ongoing review of the demolition request, staff initiated a qualifications-based
procurement process to retain an independent consultant to evaluate the Old Mill structure. On March
26, 2026, the City issued RFQ No. CH-2026-001, Structural Integrity Assessment and Preservation Cost
Study of the Old Mill Structure, seeking statements of qualifications from firms experienced in structural
engineering, historic masonry evaluation, historic preservation, and rehabilitation planning.
The purpose of the study is to provide the City and Planning Commission with an objective,
professionally prepared assessment of the structure's condition and preservation considerations. The
RFQ requested consultant services including review of historical documentation and prior engineering
reports, on-site structural evaluation, identification of structural deficiencies and life-safety concerns,
recommendations for stabilization and phased preservation, preparation of an opinion of probable costs
for stabilization and rehabilitation, and preparation of a written structural assessment report. The
selected consultant may also be asked to present findings to the Planning Commission and/or City
Council.
Responses to the RFQ were due on April 22, 2026. Staff received statements of qualifications from five
(5) consulting teams. The submissions were reviewed by a City evaluation committee using the criteria
identified in the RFQ, including relevant experience, technical qualifications, project approach, historic
preservation expertise, availability, and prior project performance.
Following review of the submitted qualifications, the City identified the highest-ranked consultant and
has entered into negotiations regarding the final scope of services and compensation, consistent with
the City's qualifications-based selection process.
At the time this report was prepared, contract negotiations were ongoing and no agreement had been
finalized. Upon completion of negotiations and approval of the professional services agreement by the
City, staff will publicly identify the selected consultant and provide additional information regarding the
scope of work, project schedule, and anticipated completion date of the analysis.
The independent study is intended to supplement information previously submitted by the applicant
and provide the Planning Commission with an additional technical resource as it continues to develop
the record during the required one-year review period.



Upcoming Work Session Submittals
The applicant has indicated that additional information will be presented at future Planning Commission
work sessions:




                                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
                                                      Planning Commission Work Session– June 3, 2026
                                               Project CUP-25-005 – 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Rd

  •   March 2026 Work Session - Flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law and
      code, and SL County Inspection Report (1996)
  •   April 2026 Work Session - Donations and contributions related to preservation
  •   May 2026 Work Session - Proposals for Use, Research on Preservation of Historic Buildings, and
      a Seismic Detail Summary
  •   June 2026 Work Session - Submittals deferred to July work session meeting
  •   July 2026 Work Session – Maintenance, rebuilding, and renovation considerations (previously
      scheduled for June 2026)
  •   August 2026 Work Session – Old Mill business review (previously scheduled for July 2026)

Attachments
      No attachments




                                                                                          Page 4 of 4
                     MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                        PLANNING COMMISSION WORK SESSION

                                     Wednesday, May 6, 2026
                                             6:00 p.m.
                                    2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                      City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:         Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                         Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                         Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:           Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                         Recorder, Sydney Pierce; Planner III, Maverick Yeh; Planner I, Emma
                         Glende; System Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner III, Sheldon Howa

WORK SESSION

1.0       Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Steinman reviewed the Business Session Agenda. Items on the Agenda included a General
Public Comment period, followed by Projects CUP-25-005 and ZTA-26-001 and the Consent
Agenda.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung, provided an update on Project
CUP-25-005. The flood damage statement, seismic analysis, Utah seismic law, and 1996 Salt
Lake County inspection report were delivered in March. Donations and contributions related to
preservation were delivered in April.

The May packet included the following:

      •   Proposals for use
      •   Research on the preservation of historic buildings
      •   Seismic detail summary

Materials related to maintenance, rebuilding, and renovation considerations would be delivered in
June, and the Old Mill business review was due in July.

The Request for Qualifications (“RFQ”) for the seismic analysis closed on May 1, and five
submittals were received. Staff would complete interviews with the firms that week, and all looked
promising. There is a broad range of expertise amongst the firms; some focus on historic
preservation while others focus on both whether the structure can be saved and if it would have a
viable economic use.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                       1
The RFQ requested an expert third-party opinion on the current condition of the building and
different scenarios to preserve some or all of the structure, as well as the feasibility of doing so.
The study would be a first step in assessing whether the structure can be saved, and the matter
would then be turned over to the property owner. It was a question of how involved in the process
the City would like to be. For example, one group indicated that they are well-versed in the
development side and have the ability to market the building to potential investors. The report
was expected to be completed by September 1.

Chair Steinman stated that the Planning Commission needed a better understanding of the
feasibility of full or partial preservation, and perhaps adaptive reuse should be the focus. The
applicant’s primary claims were that the building was in disrepair and did not have a foundation,
so it was not structurally sound. The city needed to understand if that was true. The building had
never been condemned, so it may be structurally sound. Many of the numbers presented by the
applicant were for full preservation, but he did not believe anyone expected the structure to be
restored to what it once was. He believed the expectation was that it in some way represents what
the Old Mill was, and that any opportunities for external funding should be explored. The study
should provide a better understanding of the cost. If the $50 to $75 million estimate provided by
the property owner was accurate, it would be a different conversation.

The goal was to understand the feasibility and cost of preservation, as well as tools that may be
available to the applicant, such as grants and bringing in other stakeholders, such as Preservation
Utah. The applicant asserted that the building has no foundation, but many citizens who spoke at
the public hearing indicated otherwise. Information had since been provided that there is a
foundation, but it was different from modern foundations.

Mr. Spung reviewed the RFQ. The evaluation is expected to include a review of the existing
structural conditions, potential stabilization strategies, feasibility considerations associated with
possible preservation, and order-of-magnitude cost implications. All five firms had indicated that
anything can be saved depending on the final goal and the amount of money available to spend.
For example, a hotel would have very different requirements than a mini-golf course. He believed
the final result would be a high-level, conceptual review of the current state and options for
preservation that can be used to inform the City’s decision on the current application.

Commissioner Shelton stated that one goal was to aid the City Council in the next step in the
process, determining whether a Certificate of Appropriateness should be issued. However, the
Planning Commission needed to be careful not to take on the role of dealmaker, as its decision was
only in regard to the Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”). He asked what specific information
requested in the RFQ was relevant to whether the CUP could be granted. A primary question was
whether the building represents a significant risk to the health, safety, and welfare of the
community, but he was uncertain whether that was relevant to the matter at hand, either.

Mr. Spung directed the Commission to its responsibility as outlined in the Cottonwood Heights
Municipal Code (“CHMC”). The report will help determine the severity of the structure’s current
condition. If it could be stabilized for a relatively small investment, that would be worth
considering.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                          2
Commissioner Mills stated that if the Planning Commission rejected the application for
demolition, they should provide a stratified list of possible scenarios for preservation and their
associated costs. He recommended that the consultant be asked to provide three to five options
for preservation based on their area of expertise.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the application was the inverse of how the Planning Commission
normally considers applications. In that scenario, they would be stating that the property owner
could spend a certain amount of money to fix the problem, and as a result, the Commission would
not approve tearing it down. Commissioner Mills noted that the City was working to remedy a
problem that predated the Planning Commission and the City itself. It was a unique circumstance,
and as a result, there was no danger of setting a precedent.

Chair Steinman remarked that a CUP is usually for a change of use, but in this case, it was actually
for demolition. If someone were to request a permit to demolish their home, they would have to
complete several steps and provide specific information, such as an asbestos certificate. If that
information was not provided, they would not be allowed to demolish the home. Because the Old
Mill is one of only two Historic Structures in Cottonwood Heights, the request had triggered a
CUP that requires the same level of due diligence. The City was willing to invest in studies
because it needed to be properly informed.

Mr. Spung stated that it is important to have reliable, scientific, objective data that is prepared by
an expert. Both local and national firms replied to the RFQ, some of which had worked on historic
restoration projects in Washington, D.C. They will be able to provide a thorough, accurate report
on the structure’s condition. Because it is a conditional use, the City can place conditions on
approval. They could approve demolition of specific portions of the structure and require others
to be preserved, but they first needed the facts to make an informed decision.

Commissioner Shelton stated that the City Council has more discretion because the Planning
Commission must follow the same rules as other CUPs. It must be granted unless they cannot
mitigate any potential harm. Mr. Spung stated that it is a unique application because there are only
two Historic Structures in the City, but the study will be very helpful. Once it is available, Staff
will review it against the ordinances and present that information to the Planning Commission.

Planner II, Sheldon Howa, reported that the final decision should be based on the study. The
current mindset may be to tear it down because it would cost millions of dollars to restore, but that
was not certain. The study may put the City in a position where it can negotiate with the landowner
to preserve the structure.

Commissioner Mills agreed with Commissioner Shelton and remarked that stratified solutions
should be provided prior to negotiating with the landowner. He encouraged Staff and elected
officials to be cautious with any ex parte communications with the landowner.

Chair Steinman indicated that any members of the public who wished to speak to the matter could
do so during the Business Session.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                           3
Commissioner Barnes stated that the property owner had asked the Planning Commission to make
a decision, and it seemed that the City was taking a leadership position on what can or cannot be
done on property that it had no equity interest in. Cottonwood Heights was spending money when
it was facing a $3 million budget shortfall, and he believed it should be the owner’s responsibility
to determine what should be done. He asked if the action was within the City’s purview.

Mr. Spung clarified that the property owner had requested permission to demolish the structure,
and the City’s role was to follow the procedures and standards for Historic Structures. He agreed
that the applicant had the burden of providing evidence and information for the Planning
Commission to review, which they had done. The assessment would verify that the information
provided by the applicant was accurate and ensure that the City makes a good choice. Demolition
cannot be undone, and it is worthwhile to have a third party triple-check the provided information.
If they determined that the applicant’s conclusions are valid, it would be an easy decision.
However, they could find inaccuracies or determine that new technology is available to mitigate
preservation costs. The City could not speculate on that outcome and needed an expert opinion.

Commissioner Barnes asked if the City would take the same approach with similar situations.
Mr. Spung stated that there would likely never be a similar situation. Per CHMC § 15.15.040.B:
The City Council may issue a Certificate of Appropriateness of Demolition of a Historic Structure
only after finding that all of the following conditions are met based on clear and convincing
evidence presented by the applicant that is not reasonably refuted by one or more qualified experts
engaged by the director. The study would verify whether this requirement had been met.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung confirmed that the consultants he had spoken with had
verified that they could perform a structural analysis, create cost estimates, and speak with
developers to determine the potential return on any investment. Knowing how much it would cost
to rehabilitate the structure was only helpful if developers were interested in doing so.

Commissioner Smith asked if the property owner could be compelled to salvage the structure.
Commissioner Mills stated that it was not the Planning Commission’s responsibility. They would
make a recommendation to the City Council. If the CUP was denied, it would be backed up by
the study. Anything else was outside the Commission’s purview.

Commissioner Barnes stated that the property was currently a safety hazard, and the property
owner was concerned enough that they fenced it in. Chair Steinman indicated that that was outside
the Commission’s authority. The Planning Commission’s decision on the CUP would inform the
City Council’s decision on the Certificate of Appropriateness.

Chair Steinman referred to CHMC § 15.15.040.B.4, which states: The claimed hardship is not a
mere reduction in the economic value of the Historic Structure and its host property, is not caused
by the owner's financial ability to rehabilitate the Historic Structure, is not caused by the owner's
lack of due diligence to rehabilitate the Historic Structure, and is not caused by any other self-
imposed condition of the owner such as a failure to maintain the Historic Structure under Section
19.86.045 of this code, neglect, or negligent or intentional destabilization of the Historic Structure.
He saw neglect as a major component, as the structure was required to be upkept. If the property
owner were found to be in breach of this section, there would be hefty repercussions, and the City



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                            4
needed to better understand the structure’s condition before making a decision. There were only
two Historic Structures in the City, and it was important to conduct due diligence.

Mr. Spung cautioned the Commission against drawing conclusions before the study is completed.
As the process continued, Staff would clearly differentiate between the Planning Commission and
City Council responsibilities. The Council was burdened with the final decision, and its criteria
included review of economic impacts that the Planning Commission could not consider. The item
was included in the Business Meeting agenda, and at that time, the Commission could discuss a
continuance. He did not believe there would be any benefit to holding another public hearing
before the study was completed.

In response to a question, Mr. Spung reported that a contractor would be chosen the following
week. Chair Steinman stated that it would be beneficial to include the item on the next Work
Session agenda, but agreed that a public hearing should not be held until the study was completed.
Mr. Spung reported that the study would be finalized by September 1, and Staff would then need
time to review the report. The consultant will also present their findings to the Planning
Commission. He recommended that the item remain on future Work Session agendas, as materials
will be delivered monthly.

Commissioner Anderson asked about public comment on the item. Mr. Spung reported that it
would not be open to public comment again until it is advertised as a public hearing.
Commissioner Anderson stated that it can be misleading to have items on the Business Session
agenda that do not allow public comment. It was clarified that citizens can speak to the item during
the General Public Comment period.

Mr. Spung reported that notice will be sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject
property prior to the public hearing. It can be frustrating for the public to receive notice and attend
a public hearing where no new information is provided and a decision is not made. It was
important to hold a public hearing in January so the public was aware of the application. However,
he recommended that the next hearing be delayed until citizens can provide meaningful input.
Public comment at meetings and via email or phone is always accepted.

Commissioner Mills stated that if the public was asked to provide input, the Planning Commission
needed to be willing to actually listen and pivot if necessary. Mr. Spung stated that it is equally
important to inform the public of the information the City has. The consultant’s information would
be objective and unbiased. If the public was educated and understood what the Planning
Commission had to grapple with, it would inform their feedback.

After further discussion, it was decided that the consultant would be asked to present the study to
the Planning Commission on September 2, and the public hearing would be continued to a later
date. There would be one to two public hearings before a final decision was made prior to the
January 2027 deadline.

Planner I, Emma Glende, reported on Project ZTA-26-001, a resident-initiated Text Amendment
to update Chapter 19.75: Development Standards, and Chapter 19.76: Supplementary and
Qualifying Rules and Regulations. The proposed amendment would allow second utility meters



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                            5
for guest houses and Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”) in cases where existing utilities
cannot be adequately sized or where upgrades would be unreasonable, while also requiring that
the primary residence remain responsible for billing associated with both meters.

CHMC §19.75.050 prohibited the installation of separate utility meters for ADUs, and §19.76.030
prohibited separate utilities for guest houses. However, Staff had received feedback from the
applicant and multiple other residents that this code was overly restrictive when physical site
conditions or infrastructure limitations make connecting to the primary structure’s utility meter
impractical, which may create unnecessary financial and logical burdens. Salt Lake County does
not allow internal ADUs to be separately metered, but does allow a separate meter for detached
ADUs under the condition that the property owner is billed for both.

The applicant, Nash Williams, was in the process of designing a casita at 3396 East Antler Way.
The proposed location was approximately 194 feet from his power meter and 123 from his gas
meter. However, the power nearest to the proposed structure was only three feet from the northeast
corner of the property. Both Rocky Mountain Power and Enbridge Gas had recommended a
second meter. Approval would greatly reduce impacts to existing infrastructure and landscaping
and save the applicant thousands of dollars. The Site Plan and photographs were reviewed, and
Ms. Glende reported that the heated driveway, mature landscaping, and site grading would be
impacted if utilities had to be run from the primary meter.

City Attorney, Shane Topham, reviewed the proposed Text Amendment and made minor textual
changes. The proposed text was as follows:

       19.75.050.E: The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited unless it
       can be demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the applicable
       utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the ADU or that
       bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably achieved. In such cases, the
       property owner must be billed for both meters.

       19.76.030.A: The installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is prohibited
       unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the
       applicable utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the guest
       house or that bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably achieved.

No public comments were received in response to the public notice. Staff determined that the Text
Amendment would maintain the original intent of the code to maintain the functional and financial
integration of ADUs and guest houses with the primary residence, and recommended that the
Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council.

In response to a question, Ms. Glende reported that the original intent of the code was to provide
integration to ensure that the ADU is an accessory to the home, not a separate entity. The property
owner was in the process of determining whether the casita would be a guest house or an ADU.
Chair Steinman asked about the difference. Ms. Glende clarified that an ADU can be rented to a
separate household, but requires a separate application with the City and must have a signed
affidavit recorded with Salt Lake County. Mr. Spung added that a separate permit and license is



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                             6
required for an ADU. If someone were to use a guest house as an ADU, that would be a Code
Enforcement issue.

Commissioner Shelton recommended that the text be changed to state, “The installation of separate
utility meters for an ADU is permitted. The property owner must be billed for both meters.” That
would eliminate the need for Staff to determine if the property met a list of criteria. Commissioner
Anderson agreed that if the City was going to allow separate meters, it should simply allow them.
Chair Steinman asked about potential problems with allowing separate meters. Mr. Spung reported
that complications could include issues with addressing. The intent behind requiring a single meter
is so that the home does not operate as a duplex, especially in cases of internal ADUs. Two meters
and two addresses would qualify as a duplex, which is not allowed in a single-family zone. If the
language was changed, he recommended that it only apply to Detached ADUs as there is no reason
for an internal ADU to need a separate meter.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Ms. Glende confirmed that both utility
companies had recommended separate meters for the subject property. The applicant’s narrative
indicated that one utility would add “1/2” to his address for the second meter, and the other would
add “B” to distinguish between the two meters. Chair Steinman expressed concern about a future
owner operating the home as a duplex. Ms. Glende stated that an affidavit is recorded with the
county for ADUs. Mr. Spung added that both meters would still be billed to the property owner.
If someone were operating an illegal duplex, the City has mechanisms to address that.

Commissioner Anderson remarked that the two meters would be billed in the same way regardless
of the language in City Code. Chair Steinman agreed but noted that the Text Amendment would
not just apply to the subject property, and allowing two meters would present the opportunity to
operate as a multi-family dwelling in a single-family zone. Multiple meters are typically not
allowed in single-family homes unless they are located in a multi-family zone. He would be more
comfortable if the City required an affidavit for both uses as that would alleviate the risk.

The discussion was continued during the Business Session.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Anderson seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:01 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                         7
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                   Wednesday, May 6, 2026
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:       Chair Sean Steinman, Vice-Chair Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Lucy Anderson,
                       Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Sydney Pierce; Planner III, Maverick Yeh; Planner I, Emma
                       Glende; System Administrator, Alex Earl; Planner III, Sheldon Howa

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Sean Steinman called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:06 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications and Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items

       3.1       Project CUP-25-005 – The Planning Commission will Review a Request from
                 Doug Shelby for a Conditional Use Permit for the Demolition of a Historic
                 Structure (Cottonwood Paper Mill) at 6851 S. Big Cottonwood Canyon Road.

Mr. Spung reported that the above item was discussed in the Work Session, and the applicant and
their counsel were present to answer any questions. There were no questions.

Commissioner Mills moved to CONTINUE Project CUP-25-005 to the September 2, 2026,
Planning Commission Meeting. Commissioner Shelton seconded the motion. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                    8
       3.2     Project ZTA-26-001 – The Planning Commission will hold a Public Hearing to
               Review a Zoning Text Amendment Request initiated by Nash Williams. The
               Request is to Amend City Code Chapters 19.75 and 19.76 to Allow Second
               Utility Meters for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) and Guesthouses Under
               Specific Conditions.

Ms. Glende presented the Staff Report and indicated that Project ZTA-26-001 was a resident-
initiated request for a Zoning Text Amendment to update Chapter 19.75: Development Standards,
and Chapter 19.76: Supplementary and Qualifying Rules and Regulations of the CHMC. The
proposed amendment would allow second utility meters for guest houses and detached accessory
dwelling units (“ADU”) in cases where existing utilities cannot be adequately sized or where
upgrades would be unreasonable, while requiring that the primary residence remain responsible
for billing associated with both meters.

Under existing code, CHMC §19.75.050 prohibited installation of separate utility meters for
ADUs, and §19.76.030 prohibited separate utilities for guest houses. However, Staff had received
feedback from multiple residents that the code was overly restrictive when physical site conditions
or infrastructure limitations make connecting to the primary structure’s utility meter impractical,
which can create unnecessary financial and logical burdens.

Salt Lake County has a precedent of similar code. They allow detached ADUs to be separately
metered under the condition that the property owner is billed for both.

The applicant was in the process of designing a casita at 3396 East Antler Way, the proposed
location of which was approximately 194 feet from his power meter and 123 feet from his gas
meter. However, power was available closer to the proposed structure and only three feet from
the northeast corner of the property. Both Rocky Mountain Power and Enbridge Gas had
recommended a second meter. Approval would greatly reduce impacts to existing infrastructure
and landscaping and save the applicant thousands of dollars. Locations of the existing and
proposed power meters were indicated on a site photograph and the Site Plan.

The proposed text was as follows:

       19.75.050.E: The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited unless it
       can be demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the applicable
       utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the ADU or that
       bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably achieved. In such cases, the
       property owner must be billed for both meters.

       19.76.030.A: The installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is prohibited
       unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant, with supporting documentation from the
       applicable utility provider, that the existing utilities cannot be adequately sized for the guest
       house or that bifurcation from the principal residence cannot be reasonably achieved.

No public comments were received in response to the public notice. Staff recommended that the
Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council as the Text



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                             9
Amendment would maintain the original intent of the code to maintain the functional and financial
integration of ADUs and guest houses with the primary residence while allowing flexibility for
extenuating circumstances.

The applicant, Nash Williams, stated that the narrative provided with the application describes his
site conditions, but his site was not unique, and the current requirement could be an unreasonable
burden. Cottonwood Heights allows ADUs, and his understanding was that ADUs were rental
properties. He did not intend to subdivide his property. Connecting the ADU to his existing meter
would cost an additional $30,000 and destroy mature landscaping.

In response to a question from Chair Steinman, Mr. Williams stated that the structure would be an
ADU for legacy purposes. He and his wife did not intend to rent it out, but a licensed ADU would
add to the home’s value for his children.

Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Oliver Williams gave his address as 3482 East Oak Ledge Road and stated that the structure would
not meet the setback requirements to subdivide the property.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Anderson asked if approval would set the precedent that code is changed any time
it is inconvenient or costly for a homeowner. Commissioner Mills remarked that Cottonwood
Heights is a young city, and much of the Planning Commission’s work involves clean-up code. It
may benefit the homeowner, but it may also be of benefit to the City.

Commissioner Anderson indicated that the focus should be on detached ADUs, as she did not
believe guest houses should be separately metered. Chair Steinman agreed. ADUs require
additional steps, and the Text Amendment would be citywide, so potential abuse needed to be
considered.

Commissioner Shelton stated that it was a logistical matter of providing power to a new structure.
If it would cost significantly less to get a second meter, he believed that the purpose of the structure
was a secondary issue. He had no objections to landowners anywhere in the City deciding that it
is better to add a second meter that is billed to and paid by the same party, and he did not believe
it was any more likely to be abused than any other ADU requirement. He did not believe it was
beneficial to the City to continually review matters like this that add no value.

Commissioner Anderson agreed that the language should be changed to allow separate metering
for detached ADUs without additional criteria, but she was not in favor of allowing guest houses
to be separately metered.

Chair Steinman raised the concern that, typically, multiple meters are only allowed for multi-
family land uses, and approval would provide an easier path to allowing multiple families in one
space. Commissioner Shelton disagreed, as he believed it would only provide an easier path to
power the buildings they live in, and the path to have multiple families in one space already existed.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                            10
Chair Steinman clarified his concern that the utility company will bill two unique addresses at the
single-family home. He was not concerned about the specific site but rather the opportunity for
abuse by property owners who have a guest house and now do not have to take the appropriate
steps to license an ADU.

Commissioner Mills stated that to his understanding, approval of second meters for any ADU
would be a matter of convenience and would not grant approval for the ADU. The City would
need to separately have confidence in its ability to police ADUs and guest houses being illegally
used as ADUs. He would be opposed to the Text Amendment if it led to allowing an ADU on the
basis that the structure had a separate meter.

Commissioner Shelton stated that it is difficult to get a detached ADU approved, and the resistance
was due to the fear that a guest house may be used as an ADU. He did understand how that would
be prevented by either increasing the cost of getting power to the structure or forcing the property
owner to run all power through the main meter. He believed that was an unnecessary barrier.

Chair Steinman stated that to his understanding, owner occupancy of the primary dwelling is
required for an ADU, and there is a process for verifying that. Approval would allow utility
companies to create two unique addresses for the site. Under current code, only one address can
be associated with any single-family property. The Text Amendment would create a multi-family
opportunity for guest houses and ADUs in single-family zones. Currently, an ADU that violates
the owner occupancy requirement would rely on the tenant of the main home to distribute mail to
the rear tenant, which was a barrier to multi-family rentals in single-family neighborhoods. He
was concerned that approving the citywide Text Amendment would allow for rental families in
both structures.

Commissioner Anderson stated that the primary residence must be owner-occupied regardless.
Chair Steinman reiterated that it would be harder to regulate if there were two meters because the
utility billing system would have unique addresses for each structure. He did not know of other
cities that allow two meters on a single-family parcel. Commissioner Anderson indicated that all
mail would still go to the primary address, and the property owner would be the responsible party.

Chair Steinman stated that it is easy to obtain approval for an attached ADU because owner-
occupancy is easier to manage. Detached ADUs are very difficult, and one reason for that
difficulty is to prevent multi-family dwellings in residential neighborhoods. Due to those inherent
constraints, he was comfortable with the language regarding ADUs, but he was not comfortable
with allowing guest houses to be separately metered.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Mr. Spung reported that Farmington allows
ADUs to be subdivided and sold as a separate lot. The proposed text was taken from Salt Lake
County, which allows a second meter for detached ADUs. He agreed with Commissioner Shelton
that the issue was getting utilities to the structure regardless of its use. There had been requests to
separately meter a detached garage, for example, but that was not allowed. A notarized affidavit
was already required, but the language could be clarified. When the City approves a building
permit application, they clearly indicate whether it is authorized as a guest house or ADU, and that
information is also recorded with the County. If a structure is being used illegally, there is a record



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                           11
of the approved use. He did not believe the Post Office or the City’s geographic information
system would assign the second address used by the utility.

Mr. Spung cautioned against approaching the amendment through the lens of how it might be
abused. Any regulation can be abused, but there are safeguards and mechanisms for addressing
noncompliance. However, the specific criteria were recommended by Staff to guard against abuse.
He understood Chair Steinman’s point, but it would make sense to allow a second meter on
properties like Mr. Williams’. To address Commissioner Anderson’s question, Staff does not
consider all requests for code changes. They met with Mr. Williams multiple times prior to
recommending that he submit an application for a Text Amendment, and they did so because they
recognized that it made sense in his scenario, and multiple property owners had made similar
requests.

The Planning Commission could recommend approval of Staff’s suggested language, allowing a
second meter in certain circumstances or with no special conditions, as suggested by
Commissioner Shelton, or they could recommend denial. Staff believed that the draft language
achieved the goal of allowing a second meter where needed but not where it is not warranted.

Chair Steinman stated that he was comfortable with the draft language for external ADUs, but not
with guesthouses because they allow for too much gray area. The City needed to be very careful
to not allow both the primary dwelling and a separately metered guest house to be rented out. He
would be in favor of allowing a second meter on a guest house only if the structure exceeds a
certain distance from the primary dwelling, and in that case, he would like to discuss additional
guardrails.

Ms. Glende reported that the current code prohibited the rental, lease, or use of a guest house as a
permanent residence for a second family. Mr. Spung added that the way a guest house is used is
not determined by whether it is separately metered. The use is recorded with the County and would
be clearly stated on any future buyer’s title report to help them understand what is and is not
allowed. Absolute compliance cannot be ensured, and Code Enforcement will enforce any
violations.

Chair Steinman reiterated his position and indicated that property owners would be able to obtain
a landlord account with Rocky Mountain Power. Commissioner Anderson stated that that was
outside the City’s control. Mr. Spung stated that Chair Steinman had made valid points. A
potential solution was to retain the draft language regarding guest houses to only allow a second
meter if the property owner can demonstrate a need.

In response to a question raised by Chair Steinman, Ms. Glende reported that the City did not
currently require an affidavit for guest houses, but Staff had discussed adding the requirement.
Chair Steinman stated that he would be comfortable with the draft language if an owner affidavit
is required.

Commissioner Shelton moved to recommend APPROVAL to the City Council for Project ZTA-
26-001 as modified to state:




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                        12
       19.75.050.E: The installation of separate utility meters for a detached ADU is permitted
       as long as the property owner must be billed for both meters.

       19.76.030.A: The installation of separate utility meters for a guest house is permitted as
       long as the owner is billed for both meters. An owner affidavit is required.

Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Anderson-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes;
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes; Chair Steinman-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of April 1, 2026, Planning Commission Minutes.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented. Commissioner
Anderson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Business Meeting. Commissioner Anderson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at 6:53 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                                     13
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, May 6, 2026.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/06/26                               14
