Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting IZI   Work Session [XI   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No [XI Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved ~ Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature: _ _ _ :;J)j__


Agendas -Agendas for June 16, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes -Meeting Minutes for City Council Meetings on 5/19/2026 and 6/02/2026.

CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
3.0 REPORTS
3a. Public Utilities Advisory Board Ted Boyer
3b. America 250 Micki Harris

4.0    STAFF REPORTS
4a.    Interim Budget Scott Jurges
4b.    The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a Property Tax Impact
       Schedule as a separate document from other budget documents. Scott Jurges
4c.    Just Serve Discussion Jared Gerber
4d.    Short Term Rental Discussion CM Suzanne Hyland


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
4.0 Reports
    UFA Report Battalion Chief Riley Pilgrim

7 .0   Action and Disclosure Items
7.1    Resolution 2026-34
7.2    Resolution 2026-35
7.3    Resolution 2026-36
7.4    Resolution 2026-37
7.5    Resolution 2026-38
7.6    Resolution 2026-39
7.7    Resolution 2026-40
7.8    Resolution 2026-41
7.9    Resolution 2026-42
7.10   Resolution 2026-43
                   ~    .-t::la.llllilJ(A-
                                         ~
                                         '
                        Cottonwood          Heights
                        City b~tr..un the m11Jrm;




                       AGENDAS

                       June 16, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                        WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, June 16, 2026, in the Cottonwood
Heights City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights,
Utah. The public may remotely view the open pmtions of the meeting through live broadcast by
connecting to https:/fo."ww.voutube.com/(ti;CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube
channel.

4:00 p.m.     1.        WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.        REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                        Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion {10-15 min.)

              3.        REPORTS
                   a. Public Utilities Advisory Board
                      Ted Boyer (15 min.)
                   b. America 250
                      Micki Harris (15 min.)

              4.        STAFF REPORTS
                        (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method
                        ofkeeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set
                        aside to allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council
                        up to date regarding any changes since the report was made).

                   a. Inte1im Budget Adoption
                       Finance Director Scott Jurges (30 min.)
                   h. The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a
                      Property Tax Impact Schedule as a separate document from other budget
                      documents.
                       Finance Director Scott Jurges (10 min.)
                   c. Just Serve Discussion
                        City Manager Jared Gerber (15 min.)
                   d. Short Tenn Rental Discussion
                        Councilmember Suzanne Hyland (20 min.)


              5.        REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                        a. Short Term Rental Town Hall - Tuesday, June 30th from 6:00 p.m. to
                           8:00 p.m. at City Hall in the Cmmnunity Room
                        b. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026
                        c. Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside Plaza
     *For more information, please visit CHUTAHGOVand click Community
      Calendar


6.   POSSIBLE   CLOSED    MEETING   TO   DISCUSS
     LITIGATION; REAL PROPERTY PURCHASE OR
     LEASE; THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
     COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH
     OF AN INDIVIDUAL; AND/OR ANOTHER PERMITTED
     PURPOSE UNDER UCA 52-2-205

7.   ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                                        ,,...
                                                        Jt.\ (
                                          Cottonwood
                                          C.."itJ b~ttl
                                             1    1 1
                                                        Heights
                                                  t i:n th!) {." /:1,lj'QnS




            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, June 16, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open po1iions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https ://ww"\-v .voutubc.com/(il)Cottonwoodl lcights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder(a)ch.utah.2:ov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distrihutcd to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and infonnation are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public arc encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME -Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE -By Invitation

               3.0     RECOGNITION
                       Recognition of Ted Boyer for his years of service on the Public Utilities
                       Advisory Board

               4.0     REPORTS
                       Unified Fire Authority Report - Battalion Chief Riley Pilgrim


               5.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS
                       During each regular city council meeting (spec(fically excluding work sessions),
                       there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. "
                       (Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances 2. 30.160 (B)) Persons physically
                       attending the meeling in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to
                       the City Council when invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the
                       meeting remotely may not make verbal comment::, to the City Council during the
                       meeting. Persons attending the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting
                       either physically or remotely, are invited to submit written comments to the City
                       Recorder before Noon. on the meeting date. Written comments that are submitted
                       timely ,11ill be admitted into the record of the meeting and distributed to the City
                       Council but will not be read at the puhlic meeting.
6.0   RECOGNITION
      Recognition ofLucy Anderson and Dan Mills for serving the maximum terms
      on the Planning Commission

7.0   ACTION ITEMS
7.1   Consideration of Resolution 2026-34 Adopting the Interim Budget (the
      "Interim Budget'') Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) that is based
      on the Proposed Tax Rate Increase and in Effect for the Period Beginning 1
      July 2026 and Ending After the Date on which the Council, Subject to the
      Requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, Adopts a Final Budget for
      Fiscal Year 2026-2027; and Setting Aside, in a Restricted Budget Account,
      $3.5 Million of Budgeted Property Tax Revenue.
      (By this resolution, the council adopts the Interim Budget as required under State
      law for entities proposing an increase to the certified tax).
7.2   Consideration of Resolution 2026-35 Adopting the Prope1ty Tax Impact
      Schedule Prepared Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §§59-2-924(8) and 59-2-
      919( 4) and IncoqJOrating the Property Tax Impact Schedule into the Interim
      Budget as adopted by the Council Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-
      924(8).
      (By this resolution, the council adopts the Property Tax Impact Schedule with
      updated information as required by Utah lawfor entities proposing an increase to
      the certified tax rate).
7.3   Consideration of Resolution 2026-36 Adopting a Proposed Tax Levy and
      Rate Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912, on Real Property within the
      City made Taxable by Law for Fiscal Year 2026-2027, Subject to Further
      Action as Required by §§59-2-919 and 59-2-924 and directing the City
      Manager or Designee to Report the Proposed Tax Levy and Rate to the Salt
      Lake County Auditor and the Utah State Tax Commission before 22 June
      2026.
      (By this resolution, the council adopts a proposed tax levy and rate as required
      before 22 June 2026, subject tu further action as required by State law including
      a truth-in-taxation hearing on i 1 August 2026 or such date as determined by the
      Salt Lake County Auditor).
7.4   Consideration of Resolution 2026-37 Approving and Ratifying a Bid and
      Awarding a Construction Contract for the Staker Way Drainage
      Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville D1ive Roadway Improvements
      Project.
      (By this resolution, the council ,vil! approve and rat/fy a $259,786.50 bid and
      award a construction contract tu Stapp Construction, inc. for the work and
      materials to complete the city's prqject no. 25. 009---Staker Way Droinage
      Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway improvements Project).
7.5   Consideration of Resolution 2026-38 Approving and Ratifying a Bid and
      Awarding a Construction Contract for the 3000 East & Big Cottonwood
      Canyon Trail Crosswalk Project.
      (By this resolution, the council will approve and ratify a $298,166,55 hid and
      award a construction contract to Acme Construction, Inc. for the work and
      materials to complete the city's project no. 006.26-3000 Hast & BCC Trail
      Crosswalk Project).
7.6   Consideration of Resolution 2026-39 Approving an Amendment to a
      Transportation and Land Use Connection Agreement Through Wasatch
      Front Regional Council.
        (By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to the referenced 2020
        agreement concerning consulting services for an update of the city 's general plan
        being performed by Landmark Design. 111e purpose of the amendment is to modify
        the scope of work anticipated to he needed to complete the suqject general plan
        update).
7.7     Consideration of Resolution 2026-40 Approving a Consulting Agreement
        for an Analysis of the "Old Mill" Structure.
        (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
        whereunder Dunn Associates, Inc , will conduct an independent structural integrity
        assessment and preservation cost study ofthe historic "Old Mill'' strnc:ture located
        at 6851 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road in the city).
7.8     Consideration of Resolution 2026-41 Approving Entry into a Vehicle
        Repurchase Option Agreement with Garff Enterprises, Inc. for Police and
        Public Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment.
        (The city's leased fleet (f police and public works vehicles is rotated every
        approximately two years. Because the vehicle lessor [here, Zions Bank] requires
        the city to purchase the fleet at the end of the lease term, the city requires the
        original seller of the fleet [here, Garff Enterprise5] to agree at the time of sale to
        repurchase theJleel at the end of the lease term, thereby insulating the city Ji-om
        the repurchase risk. This resolution will approve the city's entry into that
        repurchase agreement).
7.9     Consideration of Resolution 2026-42 Approving Entry into a
        Lease/Purchase Agreement with Zions Bancorporation, N.A. for the Lease
        of Police and Public Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment and
        Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of all Related Documents and the
        Taking of All Required Actions.
        (This resolution will approve the city's entry into the lease of a ne111_fleet of'polic:e
        and public works vehicles from Zions Bancorporation).
7. IO   Consideration of Resolution 2026-43 Consenting to Appointments to the
        Planning Commission.
        (By this resolution, the council will consent to the manager's appointment of three
        members of the city's planning commission).
7.11    Consideration of Resolution 2026-44 Consenting to Appointments to the
        Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee.
        (By this resolution, the council will consent to !he manager's appointment offour members
        of the city's park~, trails and open space committee).

8.0     CONSENTCALENDAR
8.1     Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
        Meetings of May 19, 2026, and June 2, 2026.

9.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting (specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing
     to comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council
     during the Public Comment perio<l. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period
     shall request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and stale !heir
     name, slate if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council
     district; and then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to
     no rnore than three (3) minutes unless rnorc or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who arc
     present will be asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5)
     minutes unless more or less time i~ specified by the Mayor. AH comments shall be directed to the City
     Council. No person addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to Gomment
     more than once <luring that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the
     Mayor, City CounGil or City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue.
     In such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such
     speakers will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live,
     submitted written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at
     the public meeting.


On Thursday, June 11, 2026, a copy ofthejhregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer ofthe
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Collonwood Heights, Utah. T1ie agendas were also posted on the City's website at
www.ch.wah.gor and /he Utah Public Notice website at fl11n,·11/pmn.11rah go1 •.

DATED this ll1" day of June 2026                               Tiffany Janzen, Oty Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with
disabilities may make requests for reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7015 or ,ecorder(a-ch.wuli.gm', at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                                r1.\.'\r,
                      Cottonwood Heights
                      Cil)· b<111vm tilt (,U()am




                MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 5/19/2026 and 6/02/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, MAY 19, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                  Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                          Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                          Member Ellen Birrell

Staff P.-esent:           City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                          Director, Scott Jurgcs; Police Chiet: Robby Russo; Administrative
                          Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                          Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung; IT
                          Manager, Matt Ervin; PLtblic Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                          Shipp; Uni tied Fire A!Jthority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim;
                          Consultant, Frank Nakamura; Consultant, Kerri Nakamura

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the~Gity Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA-Mayor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion revicw_cg, the Meeting Agenda and_stated that-the Youth City Council would be
sworn in after the Pledg't( of Allegiance, followed by City Council Committee Reports and Citizen
Comment Period. Staf[reports would include the Public Works Report and Cottonwood Heights
Police Department Report.

There were six action items. Item 7. l was consideration of Ordinance 464 Enacting Code Chapter
9.63, Community Clean Energy Program. Council Member Hyland remarked that a lot of public
comment was expected and asked if an agreement could be reached regarding potential action
should the public comment period run longer than the allotted one hour. Mayor Bennion stated
that each citizen would have three minutes to speak, so 20 citizens could comment within the hour.
The State Legislature limits speakers to one minute. City Manager, Jared Gerber reported that the
amount of time for each speaker could be decreased at the Council's discretion. Council Member
Birrell suggested that Mayor Bennion review the number of comment cards and make that
determination during the meeting.

Council Member Birrell asked why the vote was changed from June 2 to May 19. Council Member
Newell clarified that May 19 was the original date, but it was pushed to June 2. Mayor Bennion
stated that she requested the move to June 2 because the planned article was not included in the
newsletter, and she believed it was a good idea to provide more notification and additional time.
It was also decided via email, not in a public meeting, not to have the FlashVote survey.

Council Member Hyland stated that the Council had been discussing Utah Renewable
Communities ("URC") since January. Due to how divisive the issue was, the majority wanted to

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     1
finalize the vote and move on to other important matters. She would be meeting with FlashVote
to discuss the membership panel. They had promised a representative sample, but the panel
c1mently was not representative, and it is important that survey results can be trusted. The City
Council discussed the matter via email and did not feel that what was presented in the newsletter
included all infom1ation about the URC. Because there was not enough time to address those
issues, they chose not to have an article. She found it disappointing that it had been misrepresented.

Council Member Birrell stated that if the public had not had the opportunity to understand the
complexity of URC, she did not understand why they would be given even less time to do so.
Council Member Hyland stated that she had never received more feedback on an issue. Many
people were involved, aware, and commenting on URC, and she did not believe that two more
weeks would change anything. Council Member Birrell stated that comments were five-to-one in
favor of the program, which showed that it was an extraordinary response. In her four years on
the Council, she had never seen the public so enlivened over an issue. She interpreted that as
something that the public deeply cares about and should be given the foll len!:,1h of time.

Council Member Newell stated that stating the responses were five-to-one in favor was a misnomer
based on the comments he had received. There was also a whole segment of the population that
did not know about URC. Council 'Member Birrell stated that the City Council had received
comments through the website in addition to the public comments hear<l at five public meetings.
Her calculations showed that comments were five-to-one in favor. Com1cil Member Newell stated
that his experience differed. Council Member Hyland stated that fonn letters from people who did
not identify as being from Cottonwood Heights should be discounted, and those comprised
approximately 40% of the comments she received. Many communities had already voted, so the
City was not unique in voting on May 19 instead of June 2.

Council Member Holton encouraged citizens he spoke with to send c01mnents, but many of them
did not frequently engage with City government or feel comfortable with that process. Each
Council Member had different experiences with their outreach that was not necessarily reflected
in the emails.

Item 7.2 was consideration of Ordinance 465 Amending Code Sections 19.75.050 and 19.76.030
Regarding Separate Utility Meters. Cow1cil Member Hyland asked if the ordinance was intended
to address separate metering for accessory dwelling units ("ADU"). Community and Economic
Development Director, Jim Spung, reported that it was a resident-initiated request to update code
to allow second utility meters for guesthouscs and detached ADUs. He reviewed photographs of
the applicant's property. The existing utility meter is on the opposite end of the property from a
proposed ADU, and both Rocky Mountain Power and Enb1idge Gas recommended that he install
a second meter. It would greatly reduce impacts to existing infrastructure and landscaping and
save tens of thousands of dollars. Gas lines also lose efficiency over such a distance. Other
property owners with detached structures had made similar requests in the past.

Staff drafted the proposed Text Amendment to allow a second meter in cases where it would make
sense. The property owner would be required to provide evidence that it is not reasonable to
connect to the primary meter and be responsible for all utility billing on the site. For guesthouses,
they would also be required to record an affidavit with Salt Lake County clarifying that it is a

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     2
guesthouse, not an ADU or separate residence. The affidavit would transfer with the title to
subsequent owners.

Mr. Spung reported that other communities in Utah allow second meters. Salt Lake County and
Eagle Mountain allow them on detached ADUs, and Provo requires a second meter. Fannington
allows detached ADUs to be subdivided and sold separately from the home. He believed the Text
Amendment was a good compromise to provide flexibility in appropriate circumstances without
opening the door to misuse.

Council Member Hyland asked if a second utility meter was allowed for internal ADUs.
Mr. Spung reported that second meters of any kind were currently prohibited on single-family
properties. He did not research internal AD Us, hut it would be uncommon to have a second meter
because it is part of the home.

Council Member Birrell stated that since AQJJs are one of the City's three moderate-income
housing strategies, she appreciated that Staff w.as taking a deeper dive into accommodating them.
Mr. Spung stated that it would remove some burdens on property owners who wish to run power
and gas to detached structures.
                                         --
                                       µ.=..c

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Spung reported that the Planning
Commission initially recommended that separate meters be allowed on all detached ADUs
regardless of the circumstances. That was an option, but his recommendation was that the
pennissions be narrowe_d to only allow a separate meter if it is not reasonable to connect to the
primary meter. ColL,Il£!1 Member Hyland asked if it would require a Conditional Use Permit
("CUP"). Mr. Spudflfoonfirmed that detached ADUs require Planning Commission review and
approval. The utility meter was more applicable to the building permit but would not create more
work for Staff.

Item 7.4 was consideration of Ordinance 467 Granting a Cable TV System Franchise to Comcast
of Utah II, Inc. Mr. Gerber reported that Comcast had been operating in the City without a
franchise agreement but had tired of pEJ-ying the additional fees. In response to a question from
Council Member Hyland, it was clarified that they would now pay a franchise fee. Public Works
Director, Matt Shipp, stated that they would pay a general foe rather than pay every time they do
a cut. City Attorney, Shane Topham, reported tha.t the City originally offered them a franchise
agreement in 2016 or 2018, but they were not interested until recently. The agreement had the
same terms as CenturyLink, with some minor language changes.

ftem 7.5 was consideration of Resolution 2026-31 Approving an Agreement with H. W. Lochner,
Inc. for Design Services for the Bengal Boulevard Pedestrian Trail. This item was discussed later
in the meeting.

Item 7.6 was consideration of Resolution 2026-32 Consenting to Appointments to the Cottonwood
Heights Historic Committee.

The final agenda item was review and approval of the April 7 and April 21, 2026 City Council
Work Session and Business Meeting Minutes.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026        Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     3
3.0       REPORTS

          3.1   V nllcy Emergency Communications Center - Erin Downs and Amber
                Widdison.

Valley Emergency Communications Center ("VECC") Fire Communications Commander, Amber
Widdison, introduced herself and Police Communications Commander, Rosa Olivos. VECC
Executive Director, Ivan Whitaker, was unable to attend the meeting. He had been with the center
for 24 months and had 29 years of public safety experience in emergency dispatch and as an
emergency medical technician and emergency medical services director. He was also a director
at Priority Dispatch and vice president at MD Ally. Mr. Whitaker had brought a lot of experience,
insight, and innovation to VECC.                      -

The executive leadership team included Chief of Operations, Elyse Hagge1ty; Chief Financial
Officer, Tyson Montoya; and Chief of Professional Standards and Development, Shondra Young.
Ms. Haggerty began her career with Salt Lake City 911 dispatch and had been with VECC for five
years. Mr. Montoya had been with VECC for two years and provided a strong financial foundation
for the center. Ms. Young was bujJding a new training division to benefit both new hires and
seasoned employees. VECC was co'i~ 1itting resources to developing new dispatchers who would
fill similar executive roles during their s;areers.

Commw1ications Commanders included Emergency Communications Commander, Nicole Lopez
and Administrative Communications Commander, Danni Harris. Ms. Lopez was over all law
enforcement and was the liaison between VECC, police chiefs, and deputy chiefs. Ms. Widdison
was the liaison between VECC, fire chiefs, and deputy chiefs. Facilities Manager, Brice Rawlings
kept VECC infrastructure running. Technical Services Manager, Brad Morris, has worked with
pai1ner agencies and cities on technical infrastructure.

VECC receives approximately 600,000 non-emergency calls every year, as well as 250,000 911
calls and 250,000 administrative and towing calls. Their total call volume is approximately 1.1
million calls. They serve 22 police and fire agencies across 17 municipalities. In response to a
question raised by Council Member Hyland, Ms. Widdison stated that the call volume could he
attributed to population, which was growing drastically on the west side. The population is also
older and requires more services. VECC is govemed by a board of trustees and finance
committees. It was fom1ed in 1998 and had grown in that time. They now have 147 total
employees.

In 2025, Cottonwood Heights generated approximately 15,000 police calls. Combined UFA calls
totaled 32,500 across all cities they serve.

VECC was facing issues with:

      •   Population growth



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     4
            o  Utah is the fastest-growing state in the United States, with a growth rate of 18.4%
               and a projected population of four million by 2032. That would increase call
               volume, staffing needs, and associated fiscal demands. Salt Lake County was
               growing at a much faster rate than Utah, Davis, and Weaver Counties.
   •    Citizens living longer
            o By 2035, 22.8% of adults in the VECC service area will be 65 years of age or order,
               and only 15.2% under the age of 18.
   •    The mental health crisis
            o Mental health concerns contributed to a large number of constant and re-addressing
               callers. The suicide rate was 20.1 per 100,000 community members, and VECC
               was not equipped to handle the current call volume.

Council Member Newell asked ifVECC works with mental health partners in the Salt Lake Valley
that callers can be referred to. Ms. Widdison stated that the VECC was operating under a process
that was created 20 years previously, but they were actively working with the Salt Lake County
Mental Health Task Force to divert calls that do not require a public service response to the Mobile
Crisis Outreach Team ("MCOT"). They were not currently utilizing resources like the Department
of Veterans Affairs and University of Utah Behavioral Center. They did not have a triage process
to identify a caller in crisis, so they depended on keywords in callers' statements to divert them to
better resources. Not all agencies have an embedded social worker or someone who can provide
that type of clinical support. They were worki~g on a program to help those community members
access the co1Tect resources, which would also take some pressure off of first responders.

Ms. Widdison continued reviewing VECC's current challenges.

    •   Low acuity calls

           o 24% ofcalls were low acuity callers who could be seen by a doctor' s office in three
               to five business days rather than being handled through an emergency 911 response.
           o 30% of calls were for basic life support. VECC was working on ways to better
               identify and res·pond to basic life support calls.
           o 20% of calls were critical like cardiac arrest, accidents, house fires, etc.
    •   The need for technological enhancements

            o Text to 911 was currently used, and they could now receive video calls.
              Dispatchers could provide callers with a link to upload video, and doing so provides
              the agency with tum-by-tum directions based on the phone's location. The video
              can also be shared live with responders.
            o AI upgrades including:
            o Translation now correctly identifies the caller's language and actively interprets
              while waiting for a live interpreter.
            o VECC was revamping their medical protocols and implementing AI technology to
              better address calls.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     5
Over the next three years, VECC hoped to have solutions to population, call volume growth, and
mental health response, and to create a technology strategy to bling the center into the next five
years and prepare them for the Olympics.

Mayor Bennion stated that some City Council Members had been through the Citizens Police
Academy, and it was very helpful to sec what the VECC was doing with technology.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Bin-ell, Ms. Widdison stated that the AI
technology can translate up to 36 languages, many of which dispatchers cannot identify just by
hearing it spoken. VECC has many dispatchers who can interpret Spanish, but a lot of callers
speak Farsi, Vietnamese, Korean, and other lm1guages. Ms. Olivos stated that it can be difficult to
identify the language a caller is speaking because dialects can be very different, but AI is able to
identify and begin translating the language.

        3.2     Youth Citv Council Recognition of Outgoing Officers - Council Member
                Suzanne Hvland.

Youth City Council ("YCC") Advisor, Scott Bracken, was present at the Work Session and
indicated that all officers except the mayor would attend the Business Meeting.

Council Member Hyland recognized the contributions of Council Member Birrell. She did not
have time to serve on the Youth City Council wben she first took office, and Council Member
Birrell graciously volunteered to serve in her stead. Council Member Hylm1d had only heen to a
few meetings thus far and was excited for the opportunity.

In the past year, the YCC committed 177 hours of service at Butlerville Days. They also served
at Bark in the Park, the 9/11 Day of Service, trail cleanup, the Monster Mash, and the Thanksgiving
5K. She spoke with a constituent earlier that day who was very complimentary of the YCC
steppinK ~LP to help with the Pioneers Cemetery on Creek Road. They also showed up for
Pinwhe~ls for Hope child abuse awareness event and ushered at the City play. Members of the
YCC mentioned that they appreciated Community and Friendship Day with the Legislature, as
well as meeting with other youth city council groups at the Capitol and Utah State University.

Council Member Hyland had noticed the variety of students who participate in YCC. Some
members were very high achievers, some middle of the road, and some less academically
proficient. She admired how they were all welcomed into a supportive community where they
belong. Some arc shy and step back, and some are very exuberant and step forward, which she
believes creates a good learning environment.

New YCC officers were elected hy ranked choice vote and would be sworn in during the Business
Meeting. Council Member Hyland recognized the outgoing officers. By charter, the mayor must
be a junior or senior, m1d outgoing Mayor MaryAnn Jensen was graduating. The Service Officer
was Orion Ehrhart. The Education Officer was Airton Oliveria. The Social Officer was Renata
Begin. Council Member Hyland admired that the YCC focuses on three different areas. In
addition to perfonning service, they also engage in education and understanding what it means to


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                     6
govern. She would like to encourage them to participate more in committees and come to more
Council meetings. The social aspect was also important.

Appointed officials included Mayor Pro Tempore, Orion Ehrhart; Deputy Service Officer, Oliver
Strong; Deputy Education Officer, Baines Entraming; Deputy Social Officer, Cassie Higer;
Treasurer, Cam1cn Ho: Recorder, Hannony Hansen; and Public Relations, Silas Dasi\.

Council Member Hyland appreciated that the YCC tried to mimic the City Council. New elected
officials typically speak, but outgoing officials do not. That tradition would be continued in the
Business Meeting. New Mayor, Renata Begin; Service Officer, Orion Ehrhart; Education Officer,
Airton Oliveria; and Social Officer, Silas Dasi! would be sworn in during the meeting.

Mayor Bennion was impressed by the YCC at Pinwheels of Hope event. They picked up all the
pinwheels so the Family Support Center only needed to retrieve them. The YCC is an amazing
service organization for the City.

4.0     STAFF REPORTS

        4.1     Bengal/Highland Intersection Project -Public Works Director Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp reported that the Business Meeting agenda would include a resolution for approval of a
contract with H.W. Lochner for design of the county portion of Bengal Boulevard, including the
Butler Hills Drive and 2160 East intersections. Safety improvements for the crosswalk at Brighton
High School were also included in the design. City Engineer, Ben Nelsen, Council Member
Hyland, and Mr. Shipp presented the project to the Brighton High School Community Council,
and they had a lot of questions an<l ideas. Students, parents, and teachers spoke at the last City
Council Meeting about their concerns with the crosswalk.

The Bengal Boulevard project included two federal aid projects that were funded in 2022 or 2023.
An environmental assessment and 30% design for the intersections and trail p01tion were
completed by the City prior to receiving funding. A total of $1.1 million had been received from
the County for the majority of the trail, as well as traffic calming and pedestrian safety measures
throughout the corridor. The City was originally required to spend the funds by 2026, but Staff
requested and received an extension to December 2028. The City Council would be reviewing the
agreement during the Business meeting and making a decision on whether to move forward.

The remainder of the project was ready to move forward under the federal aid agreement. The
funds had been budgeted to pay the City's 6.77% portion of the overall cost, which was
approximately $300,000. The State, which administers federal aid funds, had contacted Mr. Shipp
several times to discuss the project timeline. Staff had met with the Wasatch Front Regional
Council ("WFRC"), which also questioned the timeline. Mr. Shipp info1med them that the project
was on hold until the Council determined whether to move forward. The 30% design was
completed several years previously. lt was then brought before the eunent City Council but stall cd
due to Council concerns. Mr. Shipp believed it was important to complete the entire project rather
than only the county portion as it would address traffic calming, pedestrian safety, bicycle safety,
and traffic flow.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ _   _ __

                                                     7
\Vhen the City applies for federal grants, it includes an escalating inflationary rate based on when
the money should actually become available. Both the County and federal portions of the project
had been funded some years previously, and costs had increased. Mr. Shipp cautioned against
waiting longer as prices would continue to increase, which would require either a smaller scope or
a higher City contribution.

Council Member Hyland asked for a description of the County portions of the project. Mr. Shipp
reported that a federal aid grant was received for the intersection of Bengal Boulevard and
Highland Drive, and a second federal grant was received to cover an additional section of Bengal
Boulevard. The WFRC had agreed to combine the two grants into one project. He then identified
Cow1ty projects on the sides of the project area. The trail will be tied in from City Hall to the
crosswalk to the east and from the end of the federal project to the sidewalk to the northwest. He
recently met with representatives from the State, County, and WFRC, and they agreed that the
County projects could be moved to the eastern end of the project area, and the federal project
would encompass the remainder. The resolution was for the new County portion, which would be
extended as far west as funding allows. The federal portion would then also be extended as far as
possible to the west.

ln response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp reported that on the north,
there would be a two-way, 10-foot multi use pedestrian/bicycl~ trail. It would be separated from
the road by jersey barrier walls, curb, and gutter. To the south, the existing bicycle lane will
remain. Council Member Binell asked if the bicycle lane would go through the intersection or if
cyclists would need to cross the slip lane. Mr. Shipp confim1ed that the lane would be completely
separated from motofiJ ts turning right unless they intended to keep traveling north.

Council Member Hyland stated that the School Community Council ("SCC") expressed concem
about removing the slip lane at the intersection of Highland Drive and Bengal Boulevard, and that
was an issue the Council had struggled with. Council Member Birrell noted that there will be a
dedicated turn lane. ln response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Shipp stated
that the proposed new bus stop location would be on the other side of the intersection. Council
Member Holton stated that he believed cars would still queue in their own, dedicated lane but on
a different path. Mr. Shipp stated that they would need to stop at a red light. The proposed right
lane would allow for extra queueing, and the lights could be timed for longer turn movements
during peak times. There would still be two through lanes.

Mr. Shipp reported that a primary issue was the crosswalk at Brighton High School. Students and
other pedestrians stop traffic for one to two minutes at a time, which pushes peak~timc traffic back.
That can be somewhat mitigated by installing a different crossing and changing signal timing.
They were also considering other options that could work within the project budget. Another issue
was parents dropping their children off in front of the school and stopping traffic to do a U-turn.
The new configuration may still have a delay, but it would improve safety during peak times. A
different type of crosswalk and parent education would also be helpful.

Council Member Hyland commented that the SCC's biggest concern was how much traffic backs
up due to the steady stream of students. They were advocating for a crossing guard who can stop

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     8
pedestrians and let traffic go through, as they believe that would alleviate the impatience. The
goal was for the student crossings to be timed in a way that addresses safety concerns.

Council Member Holton stated that he had three goals with the project. Many students from
District 1 walk or bike to Brighton High School, but some parents do not feel comfortable with
their child crossing the slip lane. He wanted to ensure that it was safe for them to go to school, but
also that it does not worsen drivers' experience, and that student crossings were more controlled.
His understanding was that the project would definitely address the first two items, and Mr. Shipp
was continuing to work on solutions for the crosswalk. As such, he was comfortable moving
forward with the project.

Council Memher Hyland stated that parents may not have understood that there would still be a
dedicated right-hand turn lane. In response to her question, Mr. Shipp confirmed that there would
be a green arrow to keep traffic moving. Council Member Hyland asked how the project would
make it safer for pedestrians to cross from Parkridge Drive to Bengal Boulevard. Council Member
Holton stated that the slip lane was the only difference, and the Highland Drive intersection would
otherwise stay the same.

Council Member Birrell stated that over the past two years, the WFRC active transportation tour
visited places that understand daylighting of intersections. Mr. Shipp had implemented elements
like separation and space that make motorists very aware of pedestrians and bicyclists and align
with modem daylighting techniques. Council Member Hyland remarked that Council Member
Birrell had helped her understand that vehicles making right turns are most dangerous to
pedestrians and cyclists. Council Member Birrell stated that it is dangerous not to require motorists
to stop. National standards should instruct signal timing to make it as efficient as possible while
protecting pedestrians and cyclists.

Council Member Hyland stated that she was still unclear about how students coming from
Parkridge Drive would get to Bengal Boulevard. Mr. Shipp indicated their route on the project
map. ihey would cross Highland Drive to access the trail.

Mr. Gerber noted that the map was indicative of 30% design, and the pedestrian crossing would
be finalized in the full design. Mr. Shipp was given a directive by a previous Council to obtain
grants and then pulled together four different grants to make the project happen. The current
Council needed to decide whether to move forward. If not, the grant money would likely be lost,
and the costs would increase further. He commended Mr. Shipp on his efforts for the project.

Mayor Bennion also commended Mr. Shipp for always being available to meet and answer
questions, and urged the Council to meet with him whenever questions arise. She asked about trail
maintenance costs and surface materials. Mr. Shipp reported that the 10-foot trail will be asphalt,
and the trail connections to Bengal Boulevard will likely be concrete and asphalt. Asphalt is less
expensive to maintain, softer for rnnners, and has better skid resistance. Annual maintenance costs
would be added to the snowplowing budget. Mayor Bennion stated that she bad spoken with
residents who live on the north side of Bengal Boulevard who had had vehicles land in their
backyards, and the trail will provide them with a buffer. People sometimes complain about trails
near their homes, but in this case she believed it would benefit everyone in the area.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     9
Council Member Hyland stated that she loves the plan for the n01th side but was unclear about the
pedestrian crossing. However, she did not realize that the 30% design was not the final design and
could be modified. Mr. Shipp reported that the bicycle lane on the southeastern side of Highland
D1ivc has an offramp to go right on Bengal Boulevard and another onramp back onto the trail
further down Bengal Boulevard. Cyclists continuing through the intersection on Highland Drive
will follow standard rnles of the road, as will cyclists traveling south from Bengal Boulevard onto
Highland Drive. The next design phase would consider pedestrian safety in regard to the dedicated
right-hand tum lane.

Council Member Birrell referred to concrete fencing in the area that hinders visibility at the
intersection. She was unsure how to address the issue as it was on private property, but it was an
impediment to both pedestrians and motorists. In response to her question, Police Chiet: Robby
Russo, stated that he presented the data six months previously and there had not been as many
accidents as they had thought, but he would update that infonnation. Council Member Hyland
stated that the City should look into purchasingiight-of-way from the property owner, if possible.
Mr. Shipp reported that the property was owned·by an HOA, and there were no funds available for
property acquisition. The wall interferes with line of sight but has been in place for 50 years. Any
changes would require a new projQCt-to purchase the property and move the fence. Council
Member Holton stated that it is a difficult area. Council Member Birrell stated that the issue shOLLld
be discussed with the HOA, as lhey m]y be willing to remove the fence at the City's expense.
Council Member Holton stated that he believes it is a sound wall, and there is a matching wall on
the other side that he did not believe was in an HOA.

Mayor Bennion state!f_5.that Mr. Shipp had secured funding for the project at hand, and the City
needed to move forwaro..,i50 that the funding was not lost. Mr. Gerber added that the Council was
only voting on the County1fortion of the trail, but Staff needed confirmation that they were ready
to move forward with the full project. Mr. Shipp stated that if so, he would begin finalizing the
federal agreement. The Council majority was in favor of moving forward.

Council Member Hyland asked if the plan could be presented to the SCC prior to finalizing the
federal project. Mr. Shipp indicated that they discussed the dedicated turn lane in more detail after
the SCC meeting. It will cause some inconvenience during peak times, but that was unavoidable.
Some members of the SCC were vehemently opposed to it; however, there was no other option.
In response to a question from Council Member Holton, he reported that the inconvenience would
be waiting slightly longer at the light prior to making a right-hand turn, which could be somewhat
mitigated by adjusting signal timing during peak hours. Council Member Hyland stated that she
had been persuaded about the project, but it would be a good-will gesture to go back to the SCC
and explain how it will work. Mr. Shipp stated that he was happy to meet with them.

Mr. Shipp reported that he would move forward with the Federal Aid Agreement between state
and federal agencies. The engineering fim1 had been chosen by the State, but was the same finn
that was working on the County portion. Once the process begins, new cost estimates will be
generated and the City Council will need to determine whether to increase the budget or scale the
project down. There was no match on the County portion, but the City may need to cover any


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                     10
increased costs due to the delay. Mr. Shipp stated that he will make the money stretch as far as
possible and hopes to extend tbe project past the second intersection.

       4.2        Fireworks Map Discussion - Battalion Chief Riley Pilgrim.

UFA Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim, reported that there was a push to restrict fireworks east of
1300 East in 2020 or 2021, and all cities from Salt Lake City to Draper followed that
recommendation. In 2022 and 2023, cities like Cottonwood Heights began to feel like it was
overly restrictive and started walking the restrictions back. The fireworks map had since been
fine-tuned based on legislative requirements.

Per Utah Code § l SA-5-202.5-l (b), fireworks can be restricted in:

        1. l. 1   Mountainous, brush-covered, forest-covered, or dry grass areas;
        1.1.2     Within 200 feet of waterways, trails, canyons, washes, ravines, or similar areas;
        1.1.3     Wildland Urban Interface areas (any urban interface areas where wild or
                  undeveloped area commingles with strnctures);
        l .1.4    A limited area outside the hazardous areas described above to facilitate a readily
                  identifiable closed area.

Chief Pilgrim reported that it was challenging to update the map to address areas without straight
roads, but they had done their best to incorporate the areas within statute and 200 feet beyond. A
map with straight lines helps residents understand where fireworks are allowed, and clearly
delineated areas also aids in enforcement.

The existing and proposed fireworks restrictions map was reviewed. Areas in red were already
restricted, and areas in purple were suggested after extensive review of geographic information
system ("DIS") data, citizen and Council feedback, and in-person visits to problem areas. Most
of the proposed changes were in challenging areas of the City that have many hillsides and ravines
adjacent to homes and no straight lines. These areas included Highland Avenue south of Bengal
Boulevard a!'!_d Parkridge Drive and the open space adjacent to Crestwood Park.

Chief Pilgrim reported that they bad to be careful not to create islands where residents can still
light fireworks because it would make enforcement difficult. They could use the provisions of
Item 1.1.4 above to restrict fireworks in the entire area, but that could be overly restrictive. For
example, the proposed new restricted area along Mill Lane included a pocket of approximately 35
houses that could technically be allowed to have fireworks, but no one else around tbcm could.
Sandy had restricted fireworks along Creek Road, and he did not want to create a situation where
they were allowed by Cottonwood Heights in the same area and a fire breaks out on a property in
Sandy.

Council Member Holton stated that he would prefer some flexibility to do sparklers with your
children, for example. However, he understood the reasons behind the restrictions. Chief Pilgrim
stated that the fire service met with representatives of the fireworks industry who were frnstrated
with the restrictions. They understood the public safety concerns, but tbe restrictions prohibit
people from using basic fireworks as well.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     11
Chief Pilgrim pointed out other unrestricted pockets in the City that were outside of the allowed
200 feet. However, if they were entertaining one resident's concerns, they should be willing to
entertain all of them, and people had expressed fire safety concerns about those areas. He and Mr.
Topham believed that Bengal Boulevard could he used as a clear cutoff. It extended slightly
beyond the hazard area, hut the statute allows for such exceptions to facilitate a readily identifiahle
dosed area. Chief Pilgrim then indicated other areas on the map that he would like to modify to
ensure that all restricted areas were clearly identifiable. Incorporating those limited areas outside
of the hazard zones would simplify enforcement and reduce additional threats to those areas, but
may be considered excessive by some residents. Once the map was approved, he would forward
it to Salt Lake County for inclusion on their website.

Mayor Bennion stated that Utah was in an extreme dro]._ght. The recommendations were serious
and would prevent a lot of problems. Chief Pilgrim stated that UFA had done its best to perform
an education analysis of likely conditions. Areas outside of the red zone were not really impacted
by the drought, but he was concerned about open spaces hctween houses being at higher risk for
fire due to summer temperatures.

Council Memher Holton stated that he trusted Chief Pilgrim's opinion, and he approved of the
increased restrictions in his district. If the City's fireworks were brought back in the future, he
would like to see messaging asking residents to enjoy the public show but not light their own
fireworks in the City. Chief Pilgrim reported that UFA me8saging encourages citizens to take
advantage of municipal shows as they arc pcm1itted, coordinated, and have preventative measures
in place. Mayor Bennion stated that it is hard messaging because citizens enjoy their fireworks.

Council Member Newell asked if the areas in purple would become permanent parts of the map.
Chief Pilgrim confirmed that they would be pennanent unless the City Council directed him to
change it or the need arose to modify the map. However, it can be confusing if the map is
constaQtly changed. The proposed map mirrored the pre-2020 map with a few modifications.

Council Member Holton stated that the City Council would receive calls, and he would like to be
ahle to tell citizens that the map was approved for safety reasons and based on the advice of UFA.
He would prefer not to broaden areas for convenience but only for safety.

Chief Russo stated that in the past, anything that left the ground or exploded was illegal. Now it
was hard to tell the difference. The last firework-related fires were caused by a rocket launched
from an area where they were legal into an area where they were illegal. He encouraged the City
Council to be more stringent for that reason. Chief Pilgrim agreed and noted that the statute was
based on fireworks that arc legal in Utah.

Council Member Birrell stated that 90% of the input she had received over the past four years had
been concerns about all fireworks in Cottonwood Heights, including the fireworks show. In
response to her question, Chief Pilgrim confirmed that the effort to really restrict fireworks only
lasted one to two years and was mostly walked back due to complaints about overly burdensome
restrictions. Mr. Topham indicated that the Legislature also stepped in. Council Member Binell
stated that Sandy still prohibits fireworks east of 1300 East. She was in favor of removing the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     12
dogleg sections and making the map very clear by including everything east of 2700 East. She
hoped that the City would be responsive to what aridification is doing to the state. Chief Pilgiim
stated that 2700 East may be too far to the west, but it was challenging to create a clear line near
Bywater Park and 2700 East would allow for that.

Chief Pilgrim stated that Mountain View Memorial Cemetery near Bywater Park caught fire in
2017, and they believed it was caused by a firework from well outside of the restricted area. The
cemetery was very unkempt at the time and was now well-maintained. He considered such
historical fires in creating the proposed map, and the fact that there had had been few fires showed
that the restrictions worked.

Council Member Hyland stated that she was contacted by a resident on Sable Avenue, east of
Brighton High School, who sustained property damage from aerial fireworks launched from a
neighbo1ing property. She 01iginally thought they could just include that area, but Chief Pilgiim
had indicated that all similar pockets should be included. She was concerned about including safe
areas in her and Council Member Bolton's district. There is a waterway near her home, for
example. Chief Pilgrim stated that his proposal was to use Creek Road, Pine Creek Lane, and
Lorita Way as the boundary.

Cotmcil Member Holton stated that he wanted to maintain significant areas where people can
congregate and people could go to a friend's home in a safe area and do sparklers, for example.
He was not in favor of prohibiting smart, safe fireworks like sparklers in those areas, but he
approved of expanding the map to include additional unsafe areas. It was important to keep some
areas open for children to enjoy fireworks legally and safely. Chief Pilgiim agreed but noted that
the challenge was how to connect areas with no straight roads. He did his best to keep pockets
open for safe fireworks use.

Chief Pilgrim asked for approval to set the boundaries as discussed between Creek Road and
Bengal Boulevard. He visits properties when complaints are received, and they are often outside
of the restricted area. He respects their concerns, hut some discretion is necessary for those areas
that fall within statute but may not need to be restricted.

Council Member Holton expressed concern about noncompliance. He was in favor of including
the pmple areas and most of the changes that had been discussed, but would like to monitor the
changes. Chief Pilgrim stated that the decision must be defensible, and some of the pockets in
southern Cottonwood Heights were challenging. Council Member Holton stated that he was in
favor of adding the small area around the school to the restricted area. Chief Pilgi·im stated that
the restriction could include areas cast of Highland Drive, but specific areas above Creek Road
and helow Bengal Boulevard could remain open.

Council Member Bin-ell asked about areas south of Fort Union Boulevard and east of 2700 east.
Chief Pilgrim stated that it was outside the danger area, but it was a defensible decision and he
would take the Council's direction. Council Member Hyland stated that she would prefer not to
be so restrictive. She was in favor of following Chief Pilgrim's recommendations this year. If it
is safe for some homeowners to have sparklers and other safe fireworks, they should be allowed


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _   _ _ __

                                                     13
in those areas. She did not like aerial fireworks, but that cannot be controlled, and it would be
excessive to take away all oppo1tunities for residents to celebrate.

Council Member Birrell stated that a large number of constituents who live west of Byv.ater Park
were very concerned about fireworks, and she was expecting more restrictions in that area. Chief
Pilgrim indicated that the park itselfis restricted because fireworks are not allowed in public parks.
Some nearby areas could be included, but they are landscaped and irrigated.

Council Member Hyland did not object to the boundary being Sagebrush Circle. Sable Avenue in
her district should also be restricted. However, her neighbors on Lorita Way will complain that
they are not allowed to have fireworks when the rest ofthe neighborhood can. Chief Pilgrim stated
that the boundary could be Highland D1ive. Council Member Holton remarked that there was a
substantial pe1imeter as drawn.

Chief Pilgrim stated that when people are upset, the rationale can be clearly mticulated, but he did
not expect a lot of legal pushback. The restricted area could include Sagebrush Circle and a
minimal area adjacent to Byv.ater Park, which will connect at approximately 7180 South.

Mr. Topham indicated that the ordinance would adopt a map, but the Council was discussing
changing the map. Either the item could be deferred to the next meeting, which may create timing
issues, or the motion would need to precisely explain changes being made to the map and direct
the UFA to create a new map reflecting the stated changes. How the motion should be handled
was discussed, and Chief Pilgrim was directed to o~utline changes on the map and draft language
to be read during the Business Meeting.

Mayor Bennion stated that the UFA ve1ified that the map area was a Council decision, and they
were authorized to make changes with their Battalion Chief. She thanked Chief Pilgrim and the
City Council for the discussion.

        4.3     Budget Discussion - Finance Director Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reviewed a General Fund Balance Analysis from FY2018-2019 to
the FY2026-2027 Tentative Budget. He analyzed stmiing and ending fund balances, as well as
the required 6% minimum balance and compensated absence reserve. The compensated absence
reserve had been very stable, at approximately 9% each year. The mialysis also included the
percentages of fund balance and compensated absences.

In FY2018-2019, the fund balance was 19% of revenues. For two years begiuning in FY2020-
202l, the City experienced extreme sales tax growth in addition to an influx of one-time funds that
increased the ratio to 30%. It then began to decline. In FY2023-2024, there a significant decline
of approximately $ 1.8 million. FY2024-2025 saw an approximately $1.7 million decline. The
current year was projected to have a decline of approximately $1. 9 million. The total ending fund
balance for the year was projected at $4 million, which was in line with FY2018-2029 but reflected
a percentage decrease from 19% to 14%. The FY2026-2027 Tentative Budget reflected a $220,000
increase in fund balance, which would maintain a percentage of 13% to 14% at the end of the year.
From a percentage standpoint, the City's financial status was worse than FY2018-2019 when the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     14
last tax increase was implemented. With the proposed $3.5 million tax increase, base revenues
would be approximately $32.3 million. It could be seen as either increasing or decreasing the fund
balance, depending on whether it was viewed on a dollar or percentage basis.

Mr. Jurgcs reported that the minimum allowed fund balance percentage is 6%, and it was not
anticipated that l 00% of the Compensated Absences Reserve would be paid out in a given year.
Most property tax revenue is received between November and January, and sales tax revenue is
received on a two-month delay. A fund balm1ce is required to cover both ongoing expenses and
unexpected large capital expenditures. The larger the percentage, the better. Up to 35% is allowed,
and his preference was between 15% and 25%.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges clarified that the
percentage is of revenues, not expenditures, and excludes other revenues such as transfers in and
asset sales. Council Member Hyland stated that some general revenues arc received that arc
transferred out. Mr. Jurges confirmed that approximately $4 million of general revenues are
transferred out for debt service and $2 million far capital projects.

Mr. Jurges reported that there had been significant citing of Holladay's budget policies, and
Cottonwood Heights also included budget policies in past-year budget documents. He combined
both policy sources and added descriRtors and targets to create a seven-page draft policy document
with the goal of condensing it into a one-page summary to include with the Final Budget.

The document began with General Fund balance policies, as the balance fluctuates, but other funds
rely on the General Fund. Fund balance categories include non-spendable, restricted, committed,
assigned, and unassigqed. Unassigned fund balance is the balance that is truly available for
appropriation. Some poUcy elements were driven by Utah Code, and in those cases, the relevant
code section was cited. Those driven by the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code did not yet have
citations.

If the goal is to maintain a General Fund balance of 15% to 25%, that becomes the target range,
with caution being needed to bring anything outside of it back within the target. A balance outside
of range would require City CQuncil consent. Once reserves arc used, they should be replenished
in a timely manner through a reduction in expenditures or an increase in revenues.

Other fund policies were reviewed. Mr. Jurgcs reported that the Capital Projects Fw1d and some
other funds typically do not typically need to carry a large balance. However, grants are often
funded three to five years after being awarded, and one proposed policy would set aside the
projected City match to avoid needing to appropriate monies from the General Fund.

Council Member Hyland remarked that a five-year budget had been requested as it would better
anticipate those needs and prevent them from being lost from Council to Council. She was
concerned about setting money aside for three to fom years when it could be included in the five-
year plan and more easily accOlmted for each budget cycle. Mr. Jurges stated that any additional
monies could be assigned within the Capital Projects Fund, and that infonnation could be disclosed
so it is clear to Staff and the Council that was set aside for a specific project match. It could also
be retained within the General Fund, but he bad concerns about including it with operational funds.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     15
The set-aside would not preclude the City from pulling the money back into the General Fund if
the need arose. Council Member Hyland stated that operational dollars should be used for
operations if the City anticipated having the revenue to cover the match within three to four years.
Mr. Jurges stated that it could be set up in myriad ways, and any transfers would come before the
Council either as pait of the initial budget or an adjustment.

Mr. Jurgcs reported that the Stom1 Water Fund typically needs to maintain a balance of $500,000
in case of emergency repairs. Council Member Hyland asked why a dollar amount was specified
rather than a percentage. Mr. Jurges stated that they could consider a percentage. The dedicated
revenue source was approximately $2 million, so it would need to be set at 25%.

The Debt Service Fund typically does not can'Y a high balance, but it docs need approximately
$400,000 to $500,000 to cover deposits related to debt payment instrument requirements. The
paying agent must be prepaid approximately six months p1ior to the bond payment.

The Community Development and Renewal ("CORA") should carry a small balance for
redevelopment reasons. Any tax-increment financing development may require a higher balance.

The revenue policies specifies that Qne-time revenues should go toward one-time expenditures or
possibly to recoup fund balance if allowed by the revenue source. One-time revenues are often
required to be used for specific purposes, but the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds had no
such restrictions. If this policy was put in place, it would clearly match expenses to revenues to
make decisions easier if the revenues were depleted. For example, in the past the City received
seed grants to cover first-year costs for new police officers with the expectation that the City would
absorb those costs incfuture years.

Mr. Jurgcs stated that the City had been good at measuring revenue. For example, the City did not
initially hudgct $400,000 in the current year because they were not certain of the source and
amou' i-It was added lat~r in the year once the amount was clear.

Regardi11g expenditures, the policy would encourage the City to ensure that expenses do not exceed
current revenues and be as efficient as possible.

Compensation policies were hascd on cunent Holladay policies. If the City's salat)' range is more
than 5% below market, the grade would be adjusted upward. The City's pay plan should also be
reviewed and adopted annually with the budget.

Council Member Hyland noted that Item B states that the City should contract prior to considering
adding pennanent staff. Mr. Jurges stated that the policy was taken from Holladay but the language
could be modified at the Council's discretion. It can be good to outsource new positions if they
arc uncertain if the position will be long-tem1, but it often makes sense to bring in pcnnanent staff
when expanding something the City is already doing. However, an analysis of the benefits of in-
house versus contracted staff would be helpful in making that decision.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     16
Mr. Gerber reported that the draft document would be forwarded to the City Council for review.
Staff would then presented an amended document for further discussion. They also planned to
summarize the policies for easy review during the budget process.

Council Member Hyland stated that she thought the standing Budget Committee would review the
policies. Mayor Bennion stated that it would be good for the public to see that the policies were
being implemented immediately. Council Member Hyland recommended that the policies be part
of the budget this year but subject to review and input from the committee. Mr. Gerber agreed that
the document should be reviewed by the Budget Committee.

        4.4     The Budget Officer will present and make available to the public a Property
                Tax Impact Schedule as a separate document from other budget documents.
                Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Mr. Jurges reported that the proposed Property Tax Impact Schedule was available at the meeting
and on the City website. The docmnent outlines the tax increase and what it would fund as
discussed in detail in the last City Council meeting. Mr. Gerber added that the item must be on
the agenda every time the budget is discussed.

Council Member Hyland stated that several helpful documents were available on the website,
including the Staff Memo outlining exactly what was happening with the budget, a budget
narrative, and the Property Tax Impact Schedule.

Mr. J urges stated that the document detailed what would be funded by the $3 .5 million property
tax increase. The related statement available on the website provided department-level detail,
budget schedules, etc. He was also available to answer questions.

5.0     REVrEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        I!·     Senior Social Bingo- \Vednesday, May 20th from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. in the
                Community ~o_om at City Hall.
        b.      Public Works Open House for Residents - Wednesday, May 20th from 5:00
                p.m. to 7:00 p.rn. at the Public Works Building.
        c.      District 4 Town Hall Meeting - Wednesday, May 20th from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00
                p.m. in the Council Chambers at City Hall.
        d.      Memorial Day - Monday, May 25th, 2026 (City Hall Closed).
        e.      Summerhill Park Ribbon Cutting- Tuesday, May 26, 2026 at 12-noon.
        f.      Shred Event-Monday, June 1, 2026, 9: 00 a.m. to 12 :00 p.m. at Hillside Plaza (
                open to CWH residents only, 2-boxes per vehicle limit).
        g.      CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00
                p.m. at Hillside Plaza.
        h.      Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026.
        i.      Block Party/Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside
                Plaza.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     17
Council Member Birrell recognized Robby Overson for his efforts to bring the CHaRM event to
Cottonwood Heights. Mr. Overson had emphasized the importance of Council members
embracing the urrique event. Holladay's recent event collected 18,000 pounds, a contrast from the
5,000 pounds of hard-to-recycle materials collected last year in Cottonwood Heights. She
apologized to Mr. Overson, as she believed the item would be discussed at the Work Session.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION. PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UT AH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no Closed Meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. TI1c motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:39 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                     18
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, MAY 19, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                  Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                          Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                          Member Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:            City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                          Director, Scott Jurges; Police Qhicf, Robby Russo; Administrative
                          Services Director, Barbara Higfil!l§; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                          Community and Economic ,,--p_fvelopment Director, Jim Spung; IT
                          Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                          Shipp; Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim;
                          Consultant, Frank N a~amura; Consultant, Keni N akamma

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     OATH OF OFFICE

        3.1      Swearing-In of Youth City Council 2026-2027.

Council Member Hyland reported that the outgoing Youth City Council officers were recognized
during the Work Session, and the Council was excited and grateful that the new officers were able
to serve.

Council Member Birrell stated that it had been her honor to serve as the Council liaison for the
past four years. She congratulated new Youth City Council Mayor, Renata Begin.

City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen swore in the Youth City Council.

Youth City Council Advisor, Scott Bracken reported that Renata Begin was the new mayor and
Silas Dasi! the new social officers. Other officers were not present.

4.0     CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS

        4.1      Committee Reports by CounciJ Member Matt Holton.

Council Member Holton reported that he has the privi lcge of representing the City on the Wasatch

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     19
Front Waste and Recycling District ("WFWRD") and would love to speak to any citizens with
questions regarding recycling or trash pickup. The District had transitioned physical bills to
postcards to save paper costs, which would save $192,000 annually. Customers moving to
paperless billing would save even more.

Residents should be familiar with the scrap program where they can reserve a trash bin that is
delivered to their driveway, and they were looking at different, more efficient collection methods.
This year, they collected the bins and dlUnped them at a central location in Cottonwood Heights,
where they were able to consolidate materials from over 23 bins into a single bin. ln prior years,
all 23 bins would have been taken to the landfill near Magna.

Herriman City formally submitted notice that they will be leaving the WFWRD, which will impact
Cottonwood Heights residents. They will continue fo~provide the same level of service, in part
because they found efficiencies and removed redundancies to reduce the budget by $1.9 million.
They were exploring the option of a curbside pickup for spring cleaning, and he welcomed
residents' thoughts on the idea.

        4.2     Committee Reports by Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Suzanne Hyland reported that she serves on the Emergency Management
Committee, which is not glamorous until there is an earthquake or other natural disaster. Three
years ago, they had to sandbag due to Hooding. She had the opp01tunity to sit in on the Steering
Committee meeting and wanted to recognize them for their dedication and hard work. The City
also has an amateur ham radio club, and they had tested ways to disseminate information over ham
radio in the event that wi-fi and cellular go do\Vll. They can send a drone up to survey what is
happening in the City and convey that infonnation to a command center so resources can be sent
where they are needed. She reminded residents that everyone needs supplies on hand to take care
of themselves for three days, because in that time period the City would be putting resources where
they were most needed. ff children are in school, those resoLu-ces will go to the schools, not
individual homes. The Steering Committee is a grassroots committee of neighbors talking to and
watching out for neighbors, and many people long for that type of connection.

She also serves on the South Valley Chamber of Commerce Women in Business Committee, which
graduated 24 high school seniors from their Jrn1ior Women in Business program. They each
received a $1,000 scholarship, but most of them would say that they learned far more than the
$1,000 they were awarded for pmiicipating.       She honored the South Valley Chamber for
supporting the program and finding sponsors to help young women see what they can accomplish
and put them on a path toward it.

The City Council honored the outgoing Youth City Council. She was grateful to be able to serve
as liaison and recognize the incoming members. It is a great program. They do a lot of service for
the City while learning how govcnunent works, which hopefully sets them up to participate in the
ci vie process in the future.

Council Mernher Hyland thanked Staff and the group of volunteers led by Mickey Harris for their
efforts in planning the American250 celebration, where the City will celebrate the 250th

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026          Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     20
anniversary of the Declaration oflndependence from a tyrannical government. She did not believe
it should be minimized considering how few fonns of government had survived that long. She
was grateful that everyone would have the opportunity to celebrate, as well as the volunteers who
were helping with the event.

        4.3     Committee Reports by Council Member Sha·wn Newell.

Council Member Newell reported that he serves on four different committees for the City, one of
which is the Canyons School Foundation. They just held their gala, where they collected funds
for and presented $1,500 scholarships to eight students. They were planning a Fun Run in
collaboration with Sandy City, and everyone was welcome to participate. The run would be
divided, with students in one group and serious runners in another.

He also serves on the Arts Council, which is looking for members who enjoy the mis. It is a
wonderful way to pmticipate in the City and contribute your skillsets to helping the community.

Council Mcm bcr Newell serves on the Health inthe Heights Committee, which recently completed
a Community Health Assessment. Data from the Stuaent Health and Risk Prevention ("SHARP")
survey was compiled into a report ab_out health impacts for junior high school and high school
students in the commw1ity. The full data cannot be shared due to its sensitive nature, but the report
was available on the City website.

He also serves on the South Valley Chamber Of Comruerce Board of Directors. The Chamber
offers a great opportunity for business owners to connect, engage, and network at its seminars and
business roundtables.

Mayor Bennion reported that 40 speaker comment cards had heen received, but only one hour was
available for public comment. In order to ensure that everyone was heard, speakers would be
limited to one-and-a-half minutes. She asked that comments be kept concise.

        4.4     Committee Reports by Council Member Ellen Birrell.

Council Member Birrell expressed her appreciation for Council Member Newell's leadership on
the Health in the Heights Committee. Those present understood the importance of health. It had
been brought to her attention by constituents like Tim Jcan, an emergency physical who serves on
the committee, Diane Forster-Burke, who is a nurse, and Dr. Cosgrove, a retired pediatrician, that
the number-one thing that affects everyone in all walks of life is air quality. One of the ruost
exciting things she had experienced in her 45 years in Utah was the oppmtunity they had to vote
on legislation that may advance the Cmrununity Renewahle Energy Program.

Many constituents who live in District 4 prioritize public trail access, and she did want them to
think that it was not on the front burner. The City was working on the issue, and there would be
more news later in the year. Traffic noise on Wasatch Boulevard was getting worse on Friday and
Saturday nights and holidays, and she hoped to have more of a late-night police on the far eastern
side of the City.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                     21
She recently returned from Boulder, Colorado, where for the second year in a row she had been
studying active transpoitation and how to make streets safer and better for walking and rolling in
Cottonwood Heights. The Creek Road crosswalk study was ongoing, and Council Member Birrell
encouraged anyone who was familiar with the area to weigh in on safety issues, particular related
to potential sidewalks. Comments would be received through the end of June on the City website.

Council Member Birrell invited residents to a town haLI meeting on May 20, 2026, at 6:00 p.m.
She recently gave presentation on the North Gravel Pit Project and would be speaking about it at
the town hall.

        4.5     Committee Reports bv Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reported that she serves on the Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Board of Directors
and recently served on its Finance Committee. Each division in UFA was asked to cut up to 10%
of their budget to free up funds for an overdue training facility, which was currently operating out
of cohhled together containers in Magna. Including bonding for the new facility, their budget
increased by 5%. The City's increase was 4.28%, which was just one example of increasing fees
for the City and why a property tax increase was necessary. Eagle Mountain was currently a
member of United Fire Service Area, which was part of UFA, but were voting to hccome a direct
UFA member like Cottonwood Heights. UFA invited afl Salt Lake County residents to a wildland
fire town hall on June 11, 2026 from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. at the Emergency Operations Center
at 3380 South 9000 West to learn ahout defensible spaces. All residences in the Wildland Urban
Interface area should have a 30-foot space between structures and vegetation.

She attended the Wasatch Front Regional Council ("WFRC") trip to Boulder, Colorado to
experience the safe streets they had created for pedestrians and bicyclists. Their entire region had
a long-term commitment to the effort, and it was great to see what they were been able to create.
She had discussed what they had accomplished with Staff, but the City was severely limited in
what it could provide due to funding constraints. It was up to the City Council to work together
to create the vision they want and find ways to fund it, hecausc they could not expect Staffto create
miracles out of nothing. The State is investing $45 million annually in the Utah Trail Network for
protected separate paths for bikes and pedestrians, which is a huge and visionary investment, but
the Council needed to provide safe paths to access the Utah Trail Network as well as safe
transportation for everyone in the City.

Mayor Bennion and three Council Members attended the Utah League of Cities and Towns
conference in St. George, and she appreciated the focus on water. Utah only received 50% of
nom1al snowpack, and 2026 was a very serious year where everyone needed to conserve water in
every way possible. Speaker Gene Shawcroft, former Director of the Central Utah Conservancy
District and current Colorado River Commissioner, talked about the ongoing hot summers and
how the current drought was not a one-off. We are in a new time and must conserve water always
in our state, and it was encomaging to hear experts like him acknowledge the difficulties that we
face.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     22
5.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment Period and asked that comments be civil and kept to
one-and-a-half minutes or less. Members of the City Council had differing views on many topics,
but the win she sees every day is that they continue to work together and share experiences and
infonnation with one another so the Council can be prodnctive and not divisive in any way.

Kim Sleenblik stated that she is a resident of District 3 and is against the Utah Renewable
Communities ("URC") opt-out program. We can all do our part by opting in to the Rocky
Mountain Power Blue Sky program or other programs or installing solar panels, but there is a
difference between opt-in and opt-out. If you are relying on people to opt out, that is not good,
especially with the tax increases that we are having.

Dru Tidwell stated that she is a resident of District 2 and has lived in Cottonwood Heights for 21
years. She had stated her support for the URC before, and she attended two highly informative
meetings including the town hall and one at a neighbor's home where a group of approximately 15
citizens gathered to learn and advocate for the program. She had also done significant research
online to compare different energy sources and their costs and found that renewables are often half
as expensive as oil, gas, and nuclear~, Utah is in a unique place geographically to add solar, wind,
and geothermal to its energy portfolio. URC is a well-formed program, a collaboration of
government leaders from opposite sides of the political spectrum but came together thoughtfully
and in earnest to provide a platform where communities can work together to support sustainable
energy on a small scale. It was dedicated to grnw and would ve1y likely bring electricity bills
down within a few short years. The program was a kickstart to enliven good work for less
expensive and less harmful production of eleclric power. She urged the City Council to vote yes
to URC and make something historic happen in a very significant way.

Rob Jacobs stated that he was taken aback that there was even a question about whether to be in
or out._ Six years ago, Cottonwood Heights put $20,000 into the effort, and every mayor had
supported the program. The City Council passed a resolution that we should be 100% renewable
by 2030, and URC was the only thing he had seen that would make that happen. A survey indicated
that 88% of respondents were in favor of renewable energy, which was pretty significant. In his
opinion, URC was as good of a plan as they were ever going to get. It would allow him to power
his home 100% with renewable energy without installing solar panels, which would cost thousands
of dollars. Somebody mentioned that you could just subscribe to Blue Sky, but that was ridiculous
as it was four to five times the cost of URC. This program would force Rocky Mow1tain Power
into renewable energy. If the City opted out, that meant only the people who wanted to opt-out
would have a choice. If they opted in, everybody had a choice. His choice is to opt-in.

Leslie Kovach stated that she had lived in the area since 1984. In that time, she had watched the
area grow and change. When Cottonwood Heights became a city, she believed that they moved
to a more progressive government than was offered by Salt Lake County at the time. She felt that
our City would look out for the health of our citizens, and we would have a more responsive
Council when concerns and issues were raised by citizens. She feared that the Council may remove
Cottonwood Heights from the Community Clean Energy program. As a progressive community,
she endorsed the City staying in the program and continuing to move forward in funding it. For

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                    23
many years, she worked with Rocky Mountain Power in Utah and Wyoming, and APS and the
Salt River Project in Arizona, all of which were burning coal of some sort and moving toward gas-
fired turbines. The power plants were avoiding spending money on upgrading or cleaning up any
of their processes to address air pollution. For many years, she worked on selling these companies
products to reduce their problem, but they always gave her pushback and never bought because it
would reduce their profits and bottom line. She asked that the City Council continue to fund the
program.

Christine Mikell stated that as a former Council member, she knew firsthand the privilege and
responsibility of serving the people of our City. The Council had historically worked to improve
transparency and public engagement, which is the very foundation of serving our community.
From livcstrcamed meetings to expanded communication through the City newsletter and public
meetings, the Council worked hard to give residents tli-eoppo1tunity to understand issues before
major votes were taken on their behalf, which is why she asked that they delay the vote.
Cottonwood Heights residents deserved the chance to understand the issue, and moving the vote
forward deprived them of that. The City owed it to them to make that right. This issue is important
to her as a resident because she had strnggled ·to find meaningful public education for the City
itself explaining URC, a program that she and her fellow Council memhcrs voted for while she
was in office. Its implications were the broader context sun-ounding energy policy and air quality
today in Utah. She only recently learned about the open house that occurred last week. People
care deeply about this issue. They care about their children, growth, reliability, affordability, and
protecting the quality of life that makes this community special. Regardless of where someone
landed on the issue, they deserved the opportunity to become informed before a vote was finalized.
Cottonwood Heights is an educated, engaged community. She asked the Council to trust residents
enough to let them learn, ask questions, and participate. To delay the vote, hold additional public
outreach, put infonnation in the newsletter, have a poll, and give people time to understand what
was being proposed an<l what it means. Transparency does not slow democracy down; it
strengthens it.

Lynne Kraus thanked the Council for the time they spent investigating the URC program. HB 411
passed both the Utah House and Senate with strong bipartisan support in 2019, which Lmderscores
the fact that air quality is a siwifieant issue. No bill is perfect, and this one included the opt-out
provision that everybody was complaining about. After all the work that went into the legislation
and hearings before the Public Service Commission, it made no sense to discard the opportLmity.
There were ways to mitigate the opt-out problem via the City website, email, social media, and
newsletter. Her main concern was the City's hudget situation and the additional $18,000 that would
need to be invested in noticing, but someone had volunteered to pay that on the City's behalf so
that issue had been eliminated. She saw see no logical reason for the Council to vote no. A no
vote sends the message that the Council does not think residents have the intelligence to make the
decision on our own, and she strongly disagreed with that message. Those who think URC will
not make a difference can opt-out. Those who think URC is a PowerPoint presentation can opt-
out. If they think Blue Sky is better, they can pay the $ l .95, but they should not take the option
away from the rest of ns.

Maya Parsons stated that she lives in District 2 and was present to urge the Council to keep
Cottonwood Heights in the URC program. We have all seen how the burning of fossil fuels has

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     24
negatively affected om community, with air pollution causing worsening inversions, continual
hottest temperatures on record, and this year the lowest snowpack since the 1970s. A 2020
Brigham Young University study found that Utah's air pollution can cause up to 8,000 premature
deaths per year and estimated that Utah's air pollution costs $1. 9 billion annually. The only
solution they had control over was to adopt the Utah Conununity Clean Energy Program. The
decision on whether to approve the program would largely not affect the Council, but it would
affect Ms. Parsons, the Council's children and grandchildren, and the younger generations to come.
They will inherit worse air quality, failing health, and a deteriorating climate. They will face the
repercussions of this decision whether they liked it or not. The decision to continue with a clean
energy program was deciding to invest in a healthier futme for Cottonwood Heights residents.
Cottonwood Heights could be an example, a leader in investing in a sustainable future. She wanted
to be proud ofher hometown's commitment to protecting its residents' health and our environment's
health, which we depend so greatly on, and she felt confident that the City's leaders shared the
same sentiment.

Zach Robinson is a resident of Sandy City but felt compelled to address the Council. As a two-
term Sandy City Council member, he tried twice to get Sandy to become a member community,
but they did not have the makeup on the Council. He wanted residents to have the opportunity to
do their part. In his opinion, opting out of the URC would be a mistake and a missed opportunity.
He urged Cottonwood Heights to stay as a member city and trust its residents to make the right
decisions. He wanted to provide his community with that but did not get the opportunity to. This
community had already done it, and that should not be taken away from them.

Audrey Pines stated t~~t she is a resident of District 4. Everyone had been talking about the URC
for a long time, and shi was sorry for people that missed out on the conversation. She had done
deep dives into URC and knew that it was an emotional and political topic. The science on both
sides was very divided. She was against people having to pay attention to what is on their hills
and opt out. There are so many ways that people can support alternative energy if that is how they
feel. They should look at the hardships, as taxes and telecommunication fees are building and
building. Utah Power and Light helps people that do not have money put solar panels on their
houses, which is where they should he, not on our land, as they have put parameters on the land
they are taking.

Carl Churchill was present as a citizen and business owner in the community. He thanked Mayor
Bennion and the City Council. They had a difficult job. They were hearing from both sides and
would make a lot of people unhappy no matter what they did, but he appreciated that they were
taking the matter seriously and thinking deeply about it. A lot of good points had been made, but
if Cottonwood Heights opted out as a City, all the people who want to participate would not have
the opportunity. If they opted in as a City, people could individually opt out. It costs $4 a month
and is an opportunity for those of us who want 100% renewable energy to be able to opt in. The
Blue Sky program is terrible. He put solar on his honse and had xeriscaped his yard. This was an
opportunity for the City to make a positive statement, and he asked that they give residents the
opportunity and let people opt out if they do not like it.

Shannon Haley stated that she had previously spoken in favor of URC but wanted to focus on the
opt OLtt because that was the issue some Council members were preparing to say no because of.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026          App roved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     25
Every single default in civic and public life asks something of somebody, and we do not organize
public life around the principle that the default must always favor inaction. We organize it around
what best serves the community. 88% ofUtahns consider poor air quality a serious problem, 75%
are concerned about the state's water situation, and 71 % believe climate change is happening. That
is the Council's constituency and the majority they were elected to represent. If they voted no
because the opt-out was too much to ask of adults, what they were actually voting for was
stmcturing public policy to protect the passive preferences of the few over the active values of the
many. She had heard the objection that people should not be enrolled without consent, but they
were already enrolled in sewer, trash, schools, water infrastructure, grid maintenance, etc., often
without their vote. Social contract of community has always included shared systems. The URC
program gives everyone maximum choice. When a procedural objection consistently lands in the
direction that benefits the gas industry over public interest, it always results in more gas and less
renewables. At some point, citizens have to ask whether the procedure is really the concern.

Shelly Hanson read a statement from Mayor Mike Wickers, who was unable to attend. "I am sorry
I am not able to he here with you today. Along with former Mayors Cullimore and Peterson, I
would like to add my voice in opposition to the URC program with Rocky Mountain Power. I
have never met a person that does not want cleaner air, and I believe that renewable energy sources
can help decrease the amount of carbon monoxide in our atmosphere, but this program is relying
on an ill-conceived approach that flies in the face of fairness. The Federal Trade Commission is
an important government agency tasked with protecting consumers from illegal business practices
and can refer charges to the DOJ or implement fines for businesses that break our laws. If you go
to their website, the number-one common deceptive practice is opting in customers to the product
without their full and clear consent. It is remarkable thaj: the City of Cottonwood Heights is
considering implementing this exact practice on its residents with the justification that a
notification will be mailed to each household while knowing full well that a high majority will
discard that notice withotn reading it. To rely on a deceptive practice for a program that will not
work without implementation of such practice should be condenmed by everyone regardless of
political affiliation. The current Council has talked about increasing transparency within our City.
This is the exact opposite of transparency. I believe supporters of the current proposal should
lobby the legislature to change the program to an opt-in method for the entire state of Utah.
Perhaps then we would get the required funding it needs."

Mike Hanson stated that he is a resident of District 3. He was not present due to a political callout
but because he had spent a lot of time researching URC. Over the past months, he had seen
countless URC materials, and he had problems with long-term impacts and concerns about results.
He had been ridiculed for expressing his feelings in public. People have told him that he does not
care about clean air ifhe does not support this program, but nothing could be further from the truth.
He does care about clean air, but had a problem with the opt-out. If URC is truly a strong and
beneficial program, it should run on its own merits and fund itself. If we want to help with it, we
can fund it, but we do not have to do it on the opt-out end. He respectfully requested that the
program be rejected. The URC could then go to the legislature to change the policy. He would be
in favor of it without the opt-out.

Ken Garner, PE, stated that he is a leading expert in the power industry. Natural gas and electricity
are tied at the hip. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation was so worried that last

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     26
week they issued an unprecedented level three mandatory action, including fuel delivery systems
in natural gas. Planned data centers need hundreds of gigawatts and intend to use gas, causing a
10% increase in demand on pipelines that are already strained. The Penni an Basin already has
bottlenecks. This was seen the 1990s, when gas use expanded dramatically for power plants. H.B.
Williams built a parallel 1,300-mile Kem River pipeline across the foothills of Bountiful that was
now at capacity. After a few cold winter days in the early 2000s, gas costs spiked to four times
more than just a few years earlier. That led to higher bills and escalating power costs. Pipelines
fill up, restrict supply, and increase costs. Imagine a day where cold, bitter winter air comes in
and residents must conserve. Imagine building a third parallel 1,300 mile pipeline. We cannot
build new pipelines fast enough to solve the data center and export issues, but we can help by
reducing demand, which lowers gas and electric bills. He was disappointed that the City Council
decided not to poll residents with the prepaid FlashVote and asked that they delay the vote.

!Jelen Salas-McCarty stated that she had lived in Cottonwood Heights for 34 years and was a
grateful member of this remarkable and special community. She was certainly willing to pay $3
to $4 extra a month to fund cleaner energy that will benefit our community and our state, and a no
vote was a significant underestimation of the willingness of the community to pitch in. In Utah,
people band together and make the community better. She urged the Council to vote yes.

Dr. Mark Shah stated that he is an emergency physician. The last time he was at a podium speaking
to a non-medical community was during the COVID-19 pandemic, sitting next to Govcmor Cox.
He had a similar message: our health is precious and fragile, and an ounce of prevention is worth
a pound of cure. We know that fossil fuel extraction and burning is contributing to ill effects of
health, and he encouraged the City Council to take advantage of this opportunity to improve the
health of our community.

Jennifer Shah stated that many people had made comments that she supported, but she wanted to
focus on the opt-out issue. She found it ve1y admirable to be concerned about individuals in our
community who may not be able to afford this program and may not be aware of the program or
how to opt-out, but she also believed that Cottonwood Heights could do so much to educate our
residents that they had not done. There had been a lack of due diligence in tenns of educating our
community and making them aware of this program. Only one open house was held the previous
week when they had been trying to prepare for the progrnrn for years. There could have been
multiple listening sessions. There had been no articles in the newsletter, nothing on the website,
no direct emails, and no use of the billboard that the City had free access to. She urged the Council
to use these tools to make it a win-win situation so that residents had the freedom to choose to
participate in this program if they wanted to. It would also protect those individuals who choose
not to or cannot participate. She urged the Council to delay the vote and put out the FlashVote
survey. So many people were present who wanted to have their voice heard, and she felt that their
voices had not been heard. She asked that they please be given that oppmiunity.

Samara Shah stated that she is a senior at Brighton High School. She recently h1rned 18 and
became a voter in Cottonwood Heights. Seven years ago, she attended a meeting where a
resolution was passed to be 100% reliant on renewable energy by 2030. I came to the podium with
a self-made poster in hand and spoke bticfly about her love for the earth and desire to protect it.
Now it was time for action. As a mountain biker, skier, climber, and lover of nature in general,

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     27
she believes it is necessary that we progress our lives and use resources in ways that make as little
of an impact on the environment as possible. The earth is priceless, and any additional cost to do
better by it is worth it. We must stop focusing on reasons not to participate in the URC program,
but instead focus on reasons why we should. The longer we fear minor side effects of community-
wide growth, the harder it will be to keep the City's air quality clean and healthy for its residents.
Moving toward reliance on renewable energy is an important step, and one that she and many of
her peers are very passionate about. She urged the Council, from the youth and the future of
Cottonwood Heights, to vote yes in continuing to participate in the program.

Chester Frantz stated that if Cottonwood Heights stayed in the URC, the added clean energy
generated by participants would displace approximately $10 million worth of natural gas used for
electric generation each year. Council Member Matt Holton c1mently lobbied for Williams, a
Fortune 500 natural gas company. Last month, he- was a lobbyist for the Utah Petroleum
Association. His business, Stokes Strategies, still lobbied for them through his sole business
partner. The rnles of conflict of interest state, '-'Prior to any vote on the government action, City
personnel experiencing in their opinion a conflict of interest should declare their interest publicly
and provide a written statement for the record, ·preferably before the vote of governmental action,
specifying the nature of the conflict of interest. If the City personnel detennines in their opinion
that, because of a conflict of interes(Jhey cmmot be objective in their consideration and the vote
on their government action, they s~ !l abstain from considering, debating, or voting on the
governmental action, and they shou@~:!J-? t discuss the merits of this action." If anyone was
considering an abstention, that was esseILy_ally a no vote. To pass an ordinance requires three
affirmative votes so abstaining docs not nia ke you neutral; it makes you opposed. The vote should
be postponed so a reasonable path forward could be made, and Council Member Hinton should
recuse himself as he is a lobbyist for the petroleum industry with a clear conflict of interest.
Council Member Newell and Council Member Hyland should consider whether a conflicted vote
was the majority they wanted to be a part of.

Dave SI;hoeneck has been a resident of Cottonwood Heights for 30 years. His house is across
from BYwater Park, and it ahnost burned down nine years ago because of aerial fireworks. This
year is going to be even worse. He works at Snowbird, helping those with special needs to ski and
cycle. As he drives down the canyon, he sees the rust-colored blanket of air that we arc breathing
in. He hreathes good air at Snowbird, and he was certain that everyone likes to breathe good,
clean air. You cannot get a cup of coffee for $4 a month. He did not understand why elected
officials would vote to not give us clean air or to put in it in the Cottonwood Heights Journal,
which he heard had been voted against. Clean air has a lot to do with our health, as the doctor just
said. He is anti-aerial fireworks and his house almost blowing up. Cottonwood Heights could be
the Pacific Palisades of Utah. What happened there could happen here with our canyon winds.
He believes that aerial fireworks should be banned in the City, and a lot of people feel the same
way. He was very hopeful that the ignorance of our current administration and at the state capitol
did not trickle down to the City.

Cynthia Blair commented that she would cede the remainder of her time to Ms. Forster-Burke and
asked that the vote al least be delayed. Everyone she had spoken with had not heard about URC.
She hoped that the City stays in the program as it is vc1y important. She is very concerned about
the environment, and $4 a month is not a big issue. There are a lot of ways that people will be

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ __     _   _

                                                     28
notified, as talked about in the town hall, and the people for whom it would be an issue have the
option of not paying.

Diane Forster-Burke spoke in support of the URC program. She is a master's-prepared nurse who
had worked in both community health settings and education. She also serves on the Health in the
Heights Co1mnittee. When she asked Council Member Newell about how he was going to vote,
he said he had problems with the opt-out, but that decision was made by the GOP supermajority
legislature in 2019. If you have problems with that, then you have problems with their wording.
They made it so that you pay $4 a month if you opt in, and it costs nothing to opt out within the
first six months. If you are low income, you pay nothing. There are a lot of opportunities to help
the residents. Cottonwood Heights had already paid into the program, and it would cost the City
nothing to participate in the future. Wind, solar, and b_attery storage are among the lowest-cost
energy sources available. Unlike fossil fuels, renewabl e energy has no fuel costs, and it protects
customers from price spikes tied to global conflicts and volatile glass markets like we were seeing.
The URC program is about choice, and the chg_ice is for each household to support clean energy.
She wanted to have that choice and was very ii:fitatcd that paternalism would deny her that choice.
As a nurse, she knows there are health effects tcJ'-air pollution. She had two .fi.iends who contracted
lung cancer, not by smoking but by living in this valley.

Nolan Black was present to speak regarding the Council's vote on continued participation in the
URC initiative and the importance of preserving the residents of Cottonwood Heights' choice. He
is 14 years old and attends Butler Middle School. He is the founder, chair, and CEO of the Nolan
Black Organization, as well as a multi-leader within the national United States Youth Government
program. He thanked Cynthia Blair for bringing the matter to his attention. It is great that youth
were encourage to speak up. After careful consideration and consulting with multiple members
of the community on both sides of the aisle, including Council Member Birrell, Representative
John Arthur, Senator Kathleen Riebe, and both Republican candidates for Utah House District 41,
he was in strong support of Cottonwood Heights City staying in the URC. It will bring a safer,
cleaner, and better future for our community, our state, and our nation. He had the full support of
his peers at Butler Middle School and Brighton High School.

Jason Bull spoke on behalf of Alan and Lisa Evensen, who live on Stone Mill Drive and wanted
to make it clear that they support the URC program. They appreciate the support and leadership
the Council had provided for clean energy options. However, they requested further education for
residents and business owners regarding the program. It was concerning to hear that neighbors
had not heard about the program at all and were unaware of what was on the evening's agenda.
Their request was to have meaningful conversations, to notify every resident and entity in the
Cottonwood Heights community and ensure that they were aware of what was being proposed,
and to conduct additional public outreach. Adoption of the ordinance should be pushed back until
after discussing it with the community. There was supposed to be a poll to residents to find out
their thoughts, but that did not happen. It was not in the Cottonwood Heights newsletter. It was
not posted on the billboard. Outreach had been lacking, and they requested that the decision be
tabled until residents could be educated on the program.

Dennis Magaro stated that he had been a resident and homeowner since 1984. The City was all in
in 2019, but now they were out. It did not make any sense. The money bad been paid. He was

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     29
really disappointed that the program was not mentioned in the Cottonwood Heights Journal. The
public needed to know about it. He had talked to his neighbors and they were not aware of URC.
That was on somebody, he did not know who, but people deserve the infonnation. Regarding the
opt-in or opt-out argument, we are all adults and reasonably smart, and we should be given that
opportunity.

.John Arthur stated that he is the State Representative for the district. He thanked the Council for
this critically important conversation. He grew up in the district and loves it very much. He
attended Brighton High School, where he once asked a teacher how Cottonwood Heights got its
name.      One of the things his teacher said was that because we arc in this position up above
everyone, we have a responsibility to the other communities and municipalities in this state and
county to lead. [n this discussion, he had heard a lot of people talking about the lack of education.
The way to have time to educate people on the issue was·not necessarily by pushing the vote back
because the ordinance had to be passed by June 2. If they passed it, they had the opportunity to
be part of a better tomoITow for our children. They would then have six months to educate
everybody that they can opt out for free and letlhem know why this is better for every one of the
kids who had been brave enough to step up to the microphone. He would gladly go door to door
for the next six months to give his daughters a better future, and he asked the Council for that
opportunity.

Landon Jacob presented graphs about the URC. He had been lucky enough to live in Cottonwood
Heights his entire life and to have parents 1,,vho immediately threw him into the mountains and the
wonderful landscape around us. He spends a significant amorn1t of time every year adventuring
through the canyons, but as he has grown older, the worsening air quality has been impossible to
ignore. At first, he thought it might be because he was paying more attention, but it was making
itself more obvious. Every summer, he made the decision to not recreate outside more and more
due to poor air quality. People talked about the bad days, but did not seem to talk about the
medium-bad days when we each have to make the decision whether or not to sacrifice our lungs
and go.outside or stay indoors all day. As someone whose life is centered around the outdoors,
that is 1·eally hard. As his graph indicated, the number of clean air days is dropping every single
year. Worse than that, we are about to see an increase of five times the amount of megawatts
generated by gas power plants, which would fruther lower the air quality, as shown in his other
graphs. He understands that we need more energy. He also understands that so many people are
moving here because it is incredible. We can generate this energy in a cleaner fashion. All these
people are not going to want to be here ifthey cannot take advantage of the incredible environment
that surrounds them. Rather than adding to the problem, we should try to fix it and say yes to the
proposal.

Owen Higgins and Jack Tencio stated that they are 17-year-old high school juniors and were
present to speak on the URC's water impact. They are skiers, and snow had been variable over
the last couple ofyears and continued to get more polarized. They did not want it to get any worse.
Natural gas uses a ton of water, in fact 12 times as much as gas. lfwe transition to more renewable
energy, it will bump up the lake effect and help the Great Salt Lake. They love to fly fish, and low
water levels put stress on fish and result in less available habitat. Native trout react especially
poorly to high water temperatures. They found the same data as Mr. Jacob regarding the natural
gas increase of approximately 12,000 megawatts, which would increase Utah's water use by 3.6

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ __    _ __

                                                     30
million gallons or 3.5%. That seems a bit ridiculous, especially when the lake is dying, and fanners
are struggling due to the lack of water. They know that it is not the Council's fault, but they were
asking them not to be a part of the problem.

Corrine Higgins stated that she is 18 years old and was raised in a household where she was told
that her voice matters. That is awesome, but it seems like right now there is a disconnect between
the wants of the people and the actions of our legislators, as 66% of Utahns and people in this
county strongly support developing clean energy. Within Utah, residential solar had quadrupled,
as had as the proportion of electric vehicles, yet legislators had passed numerous bills contrary to
the wants of the people. Senate Bill 57 in 2025 enabled Utah to ignore federal air quality
regulations. HB 186 increased annual fees on electric vehicles. The people, the Council's
constituents, are tired of dirty air and are taking action, yet the legislature is failing to follow suit.
They had finally given us something that we can say yes to and make a difference, and this was
where the Council could amplify citizens' voices and represent their wants as they were elected to
do, not those of petroleum companies or other large industries. She asked that they pay attention
to residents and not others, as she and her mends are going to have to deal with the fallout from
the air and water in this state.                  -

Chelle Wagner stated that she is a resident of Cottonwood Heights and had no clue that this was
even a question. She happened to h~ r about it at a gathering the previous week, which made her
very sad. Almost everybody in the room had barely even heard about it, and she was shocked at
that. The lack of publicity gave her pause, as it should give everyone because they did not even
know the issues at hand. She absolutely thought that the City should continue participation. The
argument that people should not have to look at their bill to see if they can opt out is one of the
goofiest things she had heard. She understood that there was a deadline, but the issue warranted a
delay and a special meeting so everyone would know what is going on in the community. She
would love to get every bit of transparency out to every citizen, whether they agree with it or not,
because nobody even knew that it was up for debate or there was a possibility the City would not
particip"ate_.

Skyler Baird stated that he is a resident of District 3. lt would only be $4, just a line upon the bill.
Rocky Mountain Power, which already had a monopoly by design, said that these projects were a
strong investment for the future that could be built through the company instead of backdooring
users. lf profits come, the company wins. If costs rise, residents still pay more. Future increases
may arrive through regulators, not a vote or will. They speak of cleaner air for Utah skies, yet the
generation projects will not be built here, where our children breathe each day, so how exactly
would it fix the air within the valley? If we truly want clean power for Cottonwood Heights, we
should build it, not fund a distant monopoly. We should have the choice to voluntarily support
renewable energy growth, but automatic enrollment on a bill we cannot avoid feels less like public
consensus and more like consent deployed. People say you can opt out, but no one reads the
Cottonwood Heights Journal or understands why a fee is sneaked on their bill. He asked the
Council to have the courage to say no.

Alicia Anderson stated that she had been a resident of District 2 for seven years and supported the
URC. She has family in Texas, and in February 2021, a storm left them without power for a week.
They were cold. They had gotten rid of all their snow gear because they moved to Texas from

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026               Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                     31
Utah and did not think they needed it anymore. They grabbed every blanket, layered on every
sock that they owned, and huddled together in the living room. It was terrifying for them because
they did not have power for a week and did not know when it would come back on. Her family
was fine, but she did not want that to happen here. Everybody in their community was not safe,
and it proved fatal for some. It seems irresponsible not to take the opportunity to take care of our
residents.

Alexandra Filipovic stated that she is a resident of Distii.ct 2. A handful of people said that they
had lived in Cottonwood Heights for quite some time, but she was a brand-new resident. She was
excited to be part of a City that has kind, involved, and concerned community members, the
majority of whom care for the health and wellness of ourselves and our cnviromnent. We have
years, not decades, to address the effects of a changing climate and increasing energy use, and
Cottonwood Heights had the opportunity in the palm of its hand to be one of 19 communities
leading the renewable energy charge in Utah. The time was now for the Council to vote yes on
the Community Clean Energy progrnm and protect the health of their constituents, not to mention
themselves. A yes vote was a step in the right direction on a timclinc that we cannot afford to
extend.

Runar Bowman stated that he is a resident of District 3. He understood the passion behind
everyone's comments, but the program was planning to spend their $4 per month to huy or build
a facility somewhere in Utah, Wyoming, or Idaho and install solar panels on rangeland. They
wanted to build out 400 megawatts of capacity, which sounds great, hut last year the state of Utah
produced 37,445 gigawatts of power into the f:,i-rid, and 400 megawatts would not even register. He
believed that the talk about clean air was ludicrous because there would be no impact whatsoever.
They would he burning $4 per month for nothing. It was a bad pl an and just a feel-good program.

Nick Kanderas stated that he lives in District 3. He thanked the Council members who responded
to his email, as it meant a lot to receive their feedback, even if they disagreed on a few issues. He
asked them to vote yes on the URC program because the state needs renewables, and $4 is a small
price to pay. People who arc strnggling will be provided with assistance, and the $4 would help
huild a more resilient grid. Maybe 400 megawatts right off the hat is not a lot, but you have to
start somewhere. He retired from Rocky Mountain Power and knows that the grid is stretched.
They could not keep up with demand. Everything that will help is needed, whether it is wind,
solar, or geothennal. He would like to see a more resilient grid along with the health benefits of
clean energy. Regarding the opt-out, people will have time. They can reach out to neighbors, and
it should not be an issue. He asked the Council to vote yes.

Kathryn Kair stated that she is a business owner in Cottonwood Heights who is concerned about
health. She has family members who had been hospitalized with pneumonia and cannot go outside
and walk around at certain times of the year. She would like to see a transition to cleaner energy
to reduce hannful pollutants that are worsening respiratory illnesses for many citizens. Rocky
Mountain Power still generates roughly 58% of its electricity from fossil fuels, including a heavy
reliance on coal, and transitioning to renewable energy through URC could cut community-wide
emissions by up to 45% in some cities. An earlier speaker was minimizing the impact to 19
different communities, including Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County. People are concerned
about tourism, the Great Salt Lake, and the Olympics, and we cannot keep sucking everything out

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     32
of the environment and expect to have anything left for our offspring.

Ben Donner stated that he is a resident of District 2, as well as a professional in the industry. He
asked that the Council vote yes to stay in the URC. He believed that anyone who wanted to sink
the program due to the opt-out issues was arguing in bad faith. Either they did not feel they had
the ability to reach their own community and educate them in six months' time, or they thought
their constituents were too stupid to make their own decisions, but neither of those statements was
true. If the Council valued the health and well-being of their constituents, they must vote yes to
stay in the program.

Bridget Higgins stated that she is a resident in District 3 and was impressed with the young people
who had spoken. It is such a discouraging time in our country, and some days her only hope is
that we can have some impact in our own neighborhood a bout what is happening and faith that the
people who are elected in the City arc tmly listening t o what we want, what we foar, and the
solutions we feel are going to help our community be a better place to live. The students who
spoke were inspirational to her. There is no doubt that the younger generation understands what
is at stake, and they are willing to speak out for it. She is a mother and an educator, and every day
she watches children grow up in a state with a dying Great Salt Lake and some of the worst air
quality in the country. lt is hcart}ircaking to watch leaders continue to prioritize short-tenn
inconvenience over long-term health-and the future of our communities. It is the elected officials'
job to prioritile the future and work through the short-tcnn difficulties about opt-in/opt-out and
educating people. They needed to think long term about the world that is being left to our children,
hecausc none of them would be here to deal with the consequences of what is happening.

Jen Cottam stated that she has lived in Cottonwood Heights for 20 years and loves the City. People
had spoken a lot about the additional $4 a month cost of the program, but she believed they should
speak honestly about the cost of not participating. Since May 2020, the median real estate cost per
square foot in Cottonwood Heights had increased 68%. People move here hecausc it is beautiful
and thc:y want to spend time in the mountains. As a realtor, she knows that people look at quality
of life/ and environmental quality is an important part of that. Clean air matters to families, the
elderly, young professionals, and businesses who are considering where to move. Protecting our
environment is protecting our property values, which was important to everyone present.
Economic strength is important, but there is also moral strength and obligation. We cannot stay
on the same path and expect different results. Renewable energy is the future. We will move
toward it, but when are we going to do that? It is places like Cottonwood Heights, places that have
economic strength, that can move us forward.

There were no further comments. 1l1e Citizen Comment Period was closed. Mayor Bennion
thanked everyone for speaking within the time limit and heing courteous.

6.0     REPORTS

Reports were heard after item 8.1 due to the large number of citizens in attendance.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _   _ _ _ __

                                                     33
       6.1      Public Works Report -Public Works Director, Matt Shipp.

Mr. Shipp presented the Quarterly Report on recently completed, current, and pending Public
Works projects.

   •   On May 4, the Public Works Department partnered with the Police Department to clean up
       an abatement property in the City.
   •   The yearly concrete grinding program had begun to address tlip hazards in the City. They
       were currently addressing trip hazards that arc too big to be ground down, and a total of
       350 panels had been repaired the process.
   •   Design projects included:
           o The Staker Way drainage project design_0Yas completed, and the full project should
              be completed in Summer 2026.
           o Waterway improvements were ongoing at problem bus stops, a crosswalk on 2700
              East, and the intersection of Greenfield Drive and Brookhill Orive.
           o A contract for the Highland Drive rehabilitation and overlay would likely be
              presented in June. The project would extend from Bengal Boulevard to
              approximately Intersta!e 215.
           o Improvements to the Hig Cottonwood Canyon Trail crosswalk at 3000 East would
              include bulb outs the 'sho11en the length of the crossing by approximately 15 feet,
              the addition of lights, and modifying the radius. The project was currently being
              advertised for bids and would improve line of sight and shorten the crosswalk. A
              contract would be presented at the next meeting.
           o Mill and overlay on Fort Union Boulevard was part of the Cottonwood connection
              project and would extend from Nutree West to 3000 East. This was a maintenance
              project, not reconstruction. Pedestrian improvements in the area would be
              considered in 2027.
           o The Cardiff rebuild project was expected to be completed in Fall 2026, including
              full road reconstrnction.
           o $2 million in funding was received to design improvements for the intersection of
              Highland Drive and Fort Union Boulevard. The City had been asked to consider
               adding a third lane and evaluating access management. Enviromnental and 30%
               design were in process.
           o Highland Trail Phase 3 30% design had been completed for the area from Interstate
               215 to Fort Union Boulevard. The project was now on hold pending additional
               funding.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City's five-year plan indicated that Brighton Way would
be completed this year. ln response to her question, Mr. Shipp reported that work is completed
one year in arrears, and it would be included in the FY2026-2027 phase if the budget allowed.

Council Member BiITell stated that when the improvements to the Highland Drive/Fort Union
Boulevard intersection was discussed by the City Council in 2025, she was under the impression
that Lhe Council maj 01ity was not in favor of adding a third lane. She and Council Member Hyland
had concerns about the intersection, including the idea of exercising eminent domain to purchase


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026        Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                     34
prope1tics on the east side of Highland Drive south of Fort Union Boulevard. Council Member
Hyland stated that to her recollection, there was consensus to move forward with the request that
medians be made a priority because they would be crucial if a third lane was to be considered.
Council Member Holton added that the Council voted to both add the median study and study
potential impacts to local businesses.

Council Member Birrell stated that she and the Active Transportation Committee chairperson had
a real concern about the plans. It was originally presented as a vast improvement to the safety of
all users on the roadway. She was concerned about focusing on adding an additional lane and
would prefer that it be on safety.

Mr. Shipp stated that a $2 million federal aid grant was received to improve the intersection. The
City was asked to evaluate access management as part of the 30% design, as well as whether to
add a lane or leave the current configuration. The 30% design also includes the environmental
study that is required for all federal aid projects, and the Council directed that Transportation
Impact Fee monies be used to cover those initial costs. Federal aid monies for the :final design and
construction would be available in 2027 or 2028. The other federal aid project for Highland Drive
also included trail crossings at Fort Union Boulevard.

Council Member Hyland reported that she and Council Member Birrell had discussed what is
happening on Higbland Drive north of Fort Union Boulevard and how pedestrians and cyclists on
the trail could cross safely at 7200 South. The h·ail could then continue down the west side of
Highland. She remembered approving the 30% design with the direction to look at alternatives.

Council Member Birrell is always concerned about safe routes to school. She met with Bella Vista
Elementary School Parent-Teacher Association members who were concerned about how children
can cross Fort Union Boulevard to their new school. They were insistent that the children be
bussed because they think the intersection at 7200 South, which she considered to be safer than
Fort U.!.UQn Boulevard, is more dangerous because there is an offset if you are driving west that
causes=·,danger from motorists making a left tum. Mr. Shipp stated that Staff had been working
with the Canyons School District regarding safe routes for Bella Vista students.

Mr. Shipp continued the Public Works Quarterly Repott.

    •   Studies:
           o The Creek Road crosswalk study was in process for the area from 1300 East to
               3500 East. They continued to receive input from residents, and the consultant was
               reviewing those comments and developing plans.
           o The Storm Drain Master Plan had been completed and would be brought forward
               for final adoption at a future meeting.
    •   Outside projects:
           o The Cottonwood Connection project was wrapping up construction on Danish
               Road. Staff was in regular contact with the contractor and the Metropolitan Water
               District of Salt Lake and Sandy to ensure that the work within the City right-of-way
               is completed.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     35
   •    It was Public Works Weck, and an open house would be held on May 20, 2026 from 5:00
        p.m. to 7:00 p.m. The City Council and members of the public were invited to attend.
   •    The Ridgecrest Elementary School Field Trip was earlier that day. City Engineer, Ben
        Nelsen, taught a stonnwater education class. They also had a bridge building contest,
        sandbagging relay, equipment petting zoo, tug of war contest, and snowplowing painting
        contest. The class was gifted with Tiger Cub Lane signs that will be installed on the school
        driveways. 1t was a very successful event. He thanked Public Works staff for all the work
        they put into it, as well as Administrative Assistant, Jennica Comber, for spearheading the
        effort.

        6.2     CH Police Department Report-Police Chief. Robby Russo/Candie Terrv.

Police Support Specialist Supervisor, Candie Terry, repo1ted on Apiil 2026 statistics.

Calls for service: 1,295, a slight increase frm~till25.

Response times:

    •   Priority 1: 05:26
    •   Priority 2: 08:33
    •   Priority3:18:25

Police Chief, Robby Russo, stated that dming the budget process, the question often arises about
whether the City ca~=~ve with longer response times. That is not a viable solution because it
incorporates a much~b[ o_!~er scenario. He had brought several cases to the Council highlighting
why response times are'ai@.portant, and in each case, the person would have died if the response
time was longer. The CoftonwQod Heights Police Department was founded on the premise that
they rcspon.d_to everything, and they do so quickly. They would continue to include response
times in:_every report.

Crime: There were 26 total c1unes, a decrease from 43 in April 2025.

    •   Assaults: 5
    •   Burglaries: 2
    •   Thefts: 19

Arrests: 55, an increase from 43 in April 2025.

Traffic:

    • Citations: 283
    • Warnings: 301
    .- DUis: 11



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for Moy 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     36
Accidents:

   •   Property damage: 32
   •   Injury: 6

Animal Control/ Code Enforcement:

   •   Total calls for service: 64
   •   Citations issued: 4 (Animal Control: 2, Code Enforcement: 2)

Deaths: Three unattended deaths.

Property crimes: There were a total of 34 prope1ty crimes, a decrease from April 2025.

March was Women's History Month. Ms. Ten-y highlighted the department's female staff
members, including both officers and civilian-staff. The Police Department currently had more
female police officers than at any time since its inception.

In March, Officer Ruggles and K-9Dfficer Leo attended the K-9 trials in Las Vegas, Nevada,
where they took second place in two categories. Chief Russo indicated that it was a national event,
and he was extremely proud of Officer Ruggles and the entire canine unit.

Ms. Terry rep01ted that April was Child Abuse Awareness Month. Chief Russo stated that the
department showed its support with at-shirt and in various other ways. It is an important topic,
and they wanted to show their appreciation for those who work in the field.

Chief Russo reported that officers anived quickly at the Robidoux Road fire. Firefighters
successfully resuscitated the homeowner' s kitten and did an outstanding job of containing the fire.
Council Member Hyland_arrived at the scene before Police and Fire. Council Member Hyland
stated that the fire coul d have easily traveled up the hill, and it was remarkable that it was
contained.

Chief Russo reported that a neglected German Shepherd was found abandoned in Golden Hills
Park. Animal Control officers cleaned its wounds and hied to find it a home, but it eventually had
to be euthanizcd due to its condition. Volunteer and rattlesnake expert Kim Baker brought her
own snakes to teach staff how to safely capture them. It is illegal to kill them, so they are trapped
and released in the canyons.

Code Enforcement also does a great job. Cleanups are often a joint effort. Council Members take
complaints and work with the Police Department and Mr. Topham to put the process in motion to
be able to clean up trouble properties. The recent joint effort with the Public Works Department
involved an elderly resident and her mentally ill adult child. She was initially resistant to their
efforts but came to the Police Department to thank them once the project was completed. The son
assaulted an officer and was arrested, but their goal was to get him into mental health court. She
was now working to put her home into a trust to provide for her son after her death. Chief Russo


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     37
stated that no other police department provides such personalized services. They take an interest
in every case, and victim advocates and staff walk residents through the process.

omcers also participated in active shooter training at Brighton High School to better prepare for
that unlikely event.

Chief Russo recounted a DUI accident involving a Corvette traveling southbound on Wasatch
Boulevard that crossed travel lanes and struck a Jeep head-on. Both vehicles rolled, and UFA had
to extract the drivers. The next day, officers responded to the Wasatch Recovery Center where the
driver of the Corvette was too intoxicate<l to be allowed entry. He ran from the police and crashed
a second time within 24 hours. The initial accident occurred in an area of Wasatch Boulevard
where the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") was consi<lering a raised island.

Council Member Birrell thanked Chief Russo for bringing the matter to the Council's attention, as
others may not be aware of the meeting he attended ivith her and Mayor Bennion. They met with
the Region 2 director and UDOT staff, who recommended a raised median from the mouth of Big
Cottonwood Canyon south to the intersection ofBengal Boulevard. Chief Russo stated that police
cannot be present all the time, and a physical barrier to control speed and traffic is a good solution.

Chief Russo stated that he and Emergency Manager, Lance Bess appreciated Council Memher
Hyland's passion for emergency management. Most people will listen and take in information,
but she researches issues and comes prepared to move the organization forward. Emergency
management is very important, although you hope you never need it. Most people helicvc that the
City will be there if sometl1ing happens, hut that is not necessarily true.

Chief Russo was pleased that the new command post was equipped with Starlink to be uti1ized in
emergencies. In response to a qu~stion from Council Member Hyland, Officer Bess confinned
that Starlink wou1d be available for Council use dming emergencies. Texting was already
availa12Je, and it would he expanded to calls and full service. Council Member Binell asked about
the expense related to having to Starlink. Officer Bess reported that the service was negotiated
with I-Mobile at no additional charge as part of the City's cellular plan.

Ms. Terry reported that the l0"wcck Citizens Academy ended in April. They had a great class,
and a lot of positive feedback was received. The class visited the attorney general's simulator and
participated in a fingerprint lifting exercise. She invited those Council Members who had not yet
completed the course to attend in 2027. Sergeant Bess conducted the City's Community
Emergency Response Team ("CERT") training in conjunction with UFA, and all participants
received certificates.

The previous week was Law Enforcement Appreciation Week. She almost lost her dad in the line
of duty 18 years ago. He was a captain with the Lehi Police Department and was shot in the head
during a routine trafiic stop. Law Enforcement Appreciate Week provides an opportunity to
appreciate officers and their families and remember those who have fallen. Her heart went out to
all the families whose loved ones did not come home, and she was grateful for the Cottonwood
Heights Police Department, Chief Russo, and everyone she gets to work with on a daily basis.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026             Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                     38
May is Mental Health Awareness Month, and everyone is encouraged to check in on their loved
ones, neighbors, and themselves.

Mayor Bennion expressed her appreciation for Cottonwood Heights ' police officers, Chief Russo,
and the outreach they do with the City's children. It is remarkable that Officer Wallace remembers
the names of the hundreds of students he works with in the Drug Abuse Resistance Education
("D.A.R.E.") program.

7.0     ACTION ITEMS

        7.1     Consideration of Ordinance 464 Enacting Code Chapter 9.63, Community
                Clean Energy Program (This ordinance will amend tlte citv code by enacting
                new Chapter 9.63 causing the city's-to participate in the Community Clean
                Energy Program under the Community Clean Energv Act, UTAH CODE ANN.
                54-17-901 to -909).

Council Member Holton stated that there was a lot of discussion ah out how not acting in a certain
way means you do not have compassion or care. A resident who lives on La Cresta D1ive reached
out to him to discuss water rates anci__issues she was having paying her bill. He visited her home,
which was run down. The door was·kept closed with duct tape. Many people say they can afford
the URC fee, but that is not always the case. He believes in renewables and is grateful to have
been part of the team that brought Tier 3 fuels to Utah for the first time, which reduce emissions
from vehicles manufactured after 2017 by 80%.

He told the residentt:fba [ the URC would he a $4 charge per month and she would be able to opt
out, but she said that sffe is on a fixed income and has to remove things from her grocery cart that
cost less than $4 because she cannot afford them. He told her that she would get a notice, but she
said that she \Vas \vcaring an N95 mask because her husband just finished cancer treatment, and
they w~e barely survivi11g to open_the notices they received for surgeries they could not afford
and did not have the wherewithal to keep up with tax notices or anything that is going on.

He shared another experience of visiting a family member who immigrated to Holladay from South
Korea. He asked the family member to open all his bills and explain what they mean to him, as
well as the action he hclicvcd he could take. He coul<l not communicate more than the dollar
amount owed and where it should he sent.

Council Member Holton believes that the program choice is a false one and URC is not an
equitable program, as an unfair structure was put in place and marketing was prioritized over
equity. People in District 1 with large energy consumption, multiple electric vehicles, and ample
flexibility in their income would pay the same fee as someone who lives in an apartment and can
barely put food on the table and is dreaming of saving enough money to purchase a home. He did
not take government action lightly, and it was very hard to make decisions that will impact
someone's pocketbook. He would vote no for those reasons.

He repo11ed that he received confirmation that a bill would he filed with the State legislature to
make the URC an opt-in program. Public policy is iterative. Many people had asked him to please

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     39
allow them the choice because voting no would remove their choice, and he hoped that they would
also embrace true choice. ff the program was opt in, he would do everything he could to ensure
that the current vote was not the end. He wanted to allow individuals who can afford it to actively
choose to take action, but otherwise he was unable to support the program.

Council Member Hyland stated that the program had been discussed at Council meetings since
Janumy, so anyone saying it had not been brought to them was not paying attention, which was
their concern with the opt out. Lack of attention was a serious issue. The Council was given four
days' notice of the URC town hall that they had been accused of not supporting. She could not
attend with short notice, but as it was the Mayor's town hall they also did not crash the party.

Residents mentioned conducting a FlashVote survey. Council Member Hyland brought FlashVote
to the City, and the company's promise was that they-would develop a member panel that was
representative of the community. However, it does not 1·epresent the community, and any results
would be biased. She would be speaking with them later in the week to discuss how to resolve the
issue.

Regarding the newsletter, sbc reported that the article was not sent to the Council until too late to
be able to make changes. She did not believe the newsletter should be used for political debate.
They were concerned that it was not a balanced article, which could have been remedied if they
had had more time.

Council Member Hyland stated that she appreciates thoughtful public engagement, and she had
heard from those who.:cwere both passionately -suppo1tive of m1d opposed the URC. She thanked
citizens for being resp$c_fful. She had done extensive research on the program, including listening
to the Public Service Commission meetings. At their December meeting, a commissioner said that
he had been a member for 40 years and they always heard from the passionate, but they also
represent those who are less passionate. There were 33,000 residents who were not present at the
City C~uncil meeting and may be less passionate about the topic, but she felt obligated to represent
them.

Clean air and reduced dependence on fossil fuels are common-sense goals. The intent of the
program was good, but citizens should expect their representatives to reach beyond the feel-good
sound bites to understand the structure of the legislation and how it will impact citizens, which is
what she spent countless hours doing. Her vote was not a statement against good intentions but
must reflect the structure of the program and any inherent 1isk to the City and residents.

The opt-out mechanism was not real choice and was chosen because the math of opt-in was not
convenient. She could not imagine establishing the precedent that a government entity can vote
to involuntarily subscribe its residents to a product or service. The opt-out model exploits human
frailties to not notice or fail to act by forgetfulness, inattention, or indifference, and the precedence
mattered. It was government overreach bordering on coercion. Opt-in is real freedom because it
recognizes a consumer's right to choose to act and not to be acted upon. If the organizers of the
clean energy program were so confident in citizen supp01t, it should have been structured as an
opt-in. Approximately 240 Utah cities and towns and 26 counties saw the program structure and
rejected it years ago. When it is opt-in, she will be all in.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     40
Another major concern was that there was no offramp for communities to exit URC if the program
did not deliver. If the costs escalate and benefits decline, the City Council cannot withdraw the
City to protect residents, which is bad governance. Council Member Hyland understood that the
City would have a vote, but she did not support the voting structured implemented by the URC
because it either gives a town like Springvale the same voting power as Cottonwood Heights or,
in certain circumstances, gives Salt Lake City too much power. The program burden is on the
residential customer ·with no guarantees. URC has projected that 20% of residential, 70% of
commercial, and 90% of industrial would opt out because of the higher charges to businesses. She
heard from a general manager of a ski resort who estimated their annual contribution as between
$50,000 and $70,000, which he does not believe his shareholders will support as they will want to
put those dollars into more predictable sustainability e' orts.

URC does not provide a direct energy benefit to cities or-citizens, and dollars could go to economic
development in Wyoming or Idaho as the proj_e{;ts do not have to be in Utah. Dollars are not
restricted to renewables and could go to nuclear or other energy-efficient and sustainable
technologies such as carbon capture of fossil foels. The regressive fee for residents was not fair,
and there was no requirement to mark it as optional on utility bills. Supporters note that future
participation is optional with a punitive $30 cancellation fee, but no one will know that because it
is not marked as optional in the future.

Council Member Hyland stated that Utah was adding a significant amount of solar capacity. Steve
Handy, who was the sponsor of the original 2019 bill, wrote an op-ed stating that since 2015,
approximately 94% of new c1ectric generating capacity added in Utah has been solar. That is not
because of a government mandate but because the market is speaking and solar is competitive. He
also sent her the book Inflection Point, which says, "We do not need government subsidies
anymore. We have reacbea a tipping point. We are going to see more renewables." Earlier that
day, NPR said in its news feed that roughly 22% of Utah's electricity comes from renewahles such
as wind, solar, and hydropower. The air also gets cleaner every year. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency recently announced that Salt Lake City and Provo areas have
met then 2006 PM2.5 24-hour national ambient air quality standard targets and are now in
attainment after 15 years, which underscores all the hard work Utah had done over the past decades
to improve air quality and demonstrates that Utah can meet federal air quality standards in a way
that respects local pri01itics and fosters cooperative federalism. She believes the focus sbou\d be
on those gains and not fear-mongering headlines that people tend to gravitate toward.

Council Member Newell stated that he is very concerned that people think the Council is not
concerned about clean air, because they are. He does a lot to conserve water. He docs not have a
sprinkler system. He gardens and has a lawn, but manages them conservatively. He is
conservative in how his family travels by not driving all over and picking up his grandchildren as
a group.

He was concerned about the equity issue and people who cannot afford to pay the bill. He spoke
with a young woman who pays $1,350 per month for a one-bedroom apartment on Fo1t Union
Boulevard. She works two jobs and can barely pay her bills, but the City could add a fee that she
did not even know existed. There were probably thousands of people in the same situation. If it

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                     41
was an opt-in program, he would be all in and would also opt in. It was an issue because of how
it would impact those who were not present and did not get a chance to read their bills or were
struggling to figure out how to pay their bills. He had talked to a number of business owners who
did not know about the program but would feel a heavy impact if the program was initiated. If
people start to opt out and only a few remain in the program, they will pay a lot more for the
opportunity.

Council Member Newell stated that they were not saying it was over but rather that it was not the
mechanism that will work for the City. There will be a better way. Council Member Holton had
worked hard to address the problem with the legislature, but people do not talk about that when
they excoriate him for doing the work that he does. The City Council serves because they are
passionate about their co1mnunity and care about every citizen, but they have to do things the right
way and make sure that they are not putting themselves into a pit that will come back to bite them.
If it goes sideways, there arc no guardrails to be able to protect the community. He had asked
many questions of many organizations, including the URC, that they could not seem to answer. If
you cannot answer questions about your own program, you cannot expect him to put his and the
community's trust in it. The Council would continue to work on the matter, but this was not the
mechanism to do what we need to do as a community.

Council Member Birrell stated that she wished her Council colleagues had given as much scrutiny
to the budget over the past two to four years, as well as other things in the City. A number of
things had been stated that differed from the materials she had read. The URC was not a burden
on low-income people. She stood with all residents who came to the microphone and said that we
can work together as· a community. We can knock on doors and help our fellow residents
understand the progr}Jm. It is certainly not a burden on the City, and she was not sure where that
idea came from. The City had already paid $20,000 and hired a sustainable manager in 2018 at
cost to the taxpayer. In her first year in office in 2022, she asked the city manager what the
sustainability manager was doing and was told that she attended a monthly meeting with Rocky
Mountain Power for the ~Renewablc Co1mnunities Program. Approximately two weeks later, the
title changed and she became a planner/business license official/sustainability analyst.

Nineteen co1mmmities throughout Utah hag come together every month for the past seven years
to put together a program that would make systemic difference. She believes it is great that Council
Member Newell and many others conserve water when they water their gardens. However, when
surveyed, people say that core health comes from clean air, clean water, and she believes soil as
well. The opportunity to make this choice was historic. She ha<l never seen anything like it
advanced in Utah in a meaningful way. It was not small measures but the idea of systemically
moving forward as a state.

According to the International Renewable Energy Agency, in 2024 over 90% of new electricity
generating capacity came from renewable sources. Countries that do not have the same level of
affluence as the United States arc choosing renewables. The inflection point was reached a year
ago and will continue. The hook Council Member Hyland referred to also states that when
govermnent policy pushes back an<l docs not usher in renewables, it can put them 10 years behind
schedule. So many people wanted renewablcs to move ahead in 2010 or 2015, and now in 2026


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __      _

                                                     42
they had the chance for those who choose to stay in the program to be completely cm-hon neutral
by 2030. That is a step in the right direction.

A District 3 constituent said that they were doing it for the young people. The Health in the Heights
Committee studies depression in young people, who look to the future and ask what is in it for
them. This was the chance for the city on the hill to make choices that inspire the other 240 cities
that found something wrong with the program.

Council Memher Birrell was not asked whether she wants coal generation when she pays her power
hill. Inflection Point also points out that rencwables are based on manufacturing, and the author's
proposition is that costs are going down because components are being manufactured in high
volume. By contrast, the extraction industry ha<l already picked the low-hanging fi.11it. It costs a
lot of money to get oil and gas out of the ground or oceans costs a lot of money. People say that
they do not like the look of solar farms, and neither did she, but what was the alternative? She
believes that they can overcome any obstacles as a community and thanked all those who came to
the meeting to express themselves.

Mayor Bennion stated that the program had been studied and worked on for seven years. It was
passed with bipartisan support, with 23 of29 senators voting in favor. It took seven years because
it was carefully thought mtt. Out of the $4 each month, $0.12 goes to cover the fee fi.lr low-income
households, which will never have to pay to opt out. The goal is that as people are educated about
the program, more people will learn that they qualify for those benefits.

The program aims to have renewable energy by 2030. Nuclear and geothermal do not happen in
such a short timefrarn_e-and are out of the program's price range, so it is limited to solar and wind.
The program was movmg forward and could not he pulled back to change it to an opt-in program.
A total of 83% of commu nities in-the program had already voted to stay in, and it would move
forward with or without Cottonwood Heights.

Regarding the newsletter article that was not puhlished, it \.Vas written by the staff member who
had been attending monthly URC meetings since he hcgan working with the City and had read
minutes from p1ior meetings. She serves on the URC board, and in the past, the City representative
failed to attend those meetings. Mayor Bennion believed that the article was informative, and she
was sorry that they were unable to share it with the community due to a majority Council decision.

Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 plan goal was for 50% renewable electrical power. The reason Utah
was not on the same path was that Rocky Mountain Power does not have it in its plan to add
renewable energy, partly due to the legislature. URC is a program that allows its 19 member
communities to have a say in the energy that is delivered to them.

When Salt Lake City made its Olympics bid several years ago, it passed a joint resolution
addressing climate change that included the following words: "The Community Renewable Energy
Program, formed following the passage of the aforementioned legislation, was the first program
of its kind in the United States. All communities hosting Olympic and Paralympic competitions
have pledged to rely on at least 60% renewable energy by 2030." If Cottonwood Heights did not
maintain the promise it made as one of those communities, it would be letting down the bid that

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     43
was put fo1ward, with the vast majority committing to 100% by that time. The City was one of
the communities in Utah that were ready for this. The bid goes on to state, "Rocky Mountain
Power has provided its enthusiastic support for future games in Utah and is the largest regulated
utility owner of wind power in the western United States." It mentions the community' s
c01mnitmcnt in three other areas.

For the Cottonwood Heights community at the base of the canyons to stay in the program would
reflect its commitment to those values. Mayor Bennion supported the URC for many reasons. It
is well thought out and includes guardrails. The program is a partnership with Rocky Mountain
Power overseen by the Public Service Commission, so guardrails are in place.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to TABLE Ordinance 464 Enacting Code Chapter
9.63, Community Clean Energy Program, to the June 2, 2026 City Council Meeting. The motion
was seconded by Mayor Bennion.

Mayor Bennion stated that they only lcamc__d that an article would not be included in the
Cottonwood Heights .Journal two weeks previously, which was why they decided to hold the open
house so quickly. Things had moved quickly, and many people would like to know more and
connect with their representatives. She hoped that the City Council would have open minds to
continue learning about the program.

Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Newell-No; Council Member
Hyland-No; Council Member Highland-No; Council Member Holton-No; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion failed 4-to-2.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 464 Enacting Code Chapter
9.63, Community Clean Energy Program. The motion was seconded by Mayor Bennion. Vote
on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Newell-No; Council Member Hyland-
No; Council Member Highland-No; Council Member Holton-No; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The
moti011afailed 4-to-2

        7.2     Consideration of Ordinance 465 Amending Code Sections 19. 75.050 and
                19.76.030 Regarding Separate Utility Meters. (This ordinance will amend the
                Citv code to allow the installation o(separate utility meters on certain residences).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed in the WOrk Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 465 Amending Code
Sections 19. 75.050 and 19.76.030 Regarding Separate Utility Meters. TI1e motion was seconded
by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Bincll-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     44
        7.3     Consideration of Ordinance 466 Adopting a Revised Map provided by UFA
                showing the hazardous areas in the City being closed to fireworks. (This
                ordinance will adopt a revised map provided by UFA showing the hazardous
                areas in the city being closed to fireworks. A copy of the proposed new map also
                is attached.)

Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim, displayed the revised map. Areas in purple were map additional
that had been proposed after perforn1ing site visits and in consideration of feedback received from
residents and the City Council. After additional discussion during the Work Session, areas in blue
were added to enhance proposed restrictions as allowed by State statute.

Mayor Bennion thanked Chief Pilgrim for adding the new areas so quickly. The clean lines were
discussed in the Work Session and will allow clarity for residents and law enforcement.

Council Member Hyland stated that the item was carefully deliberated in the Work Session, and
safety must come first, especially in this droug_!lt-prone year. She appreciated Chief Pilgiim for
extending the restrictions, as well as the civiC-discussion regarding what would make the most
sense for the City.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Ordinance 466 Adopting a Revised
Map provided by UFA showing the hazardous areas in the City being closed to fireworks as
amended with the following handwritten changes to the map previously circulated as shown in
blue shading on the attachment and a request for UFA to promptly provide a revised final map
incorporating those handwritten changes.

The additional areas shall include:

        1.      The area east of Highland Drive, south of Lorita Way, to the Cottonwood Heights
                City bo'undary.
        2.      The area south of Creek Road adjacent to Oakdale Elementary School.
        3.      The area south of Bengal Boulevard, cast of Brighton High School, extended into
                the current proposed restriction at Brighton Cove Circle.
        4.      The area south of Fort Union Boulevard, cast of Sagebrush Way, extended to
                current restrictions in place at Bywater Park along Walnut Way.
        5.      The area east of Benicia Way, encompassing the area between the Cottonwood
                Office complex south to Hollow Mill Drive.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member
Newell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Binell-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Ycs; Mayor Bcnnion-Ycs. The motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026          Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                     45
       7.4      Consideration of Ordinance 467 Granting a Cable TV System Franchise to
                Comcast of Utah II. Inc. (This ordinance will grant to Comcast of Utah II, inc.
                a franchise to operate and maintain a cable television s-vstem within the city on
                certain terms and conditions).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed in the Work Session. Comcast had
been operating in Cottonwood Heights but had now come forward with the franchise agreement.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Ordinance 467 Granting a Cable TV
System Franchise to Comcast of Utah II, Inc. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Birrell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

       7.5      Consideration of Resolution 2026-31 Approving an Agreement with H.W.
                Lochner, Inc. for Design Ser,i ces for the Bcn2al Boulevard Pedestrian Trail.
                (By this Resolution the Councilwill approve an agreement with whereumler the
                named provider will provide design aml advertising selllices for Phase I o{tlte
                City's Bengal Boulevard pedestrian trail as provided in the agreement).

Mayor Bennion repo1ted that the above item was discussed in the Work Session.

Council Member Birrell stated that the project had been before the Council for over four years,
and it was nice to see it advance. Anything that makes the City's roadways, and pmticularly its
intersections aml crossings, safor is a good thing.

Council Member Hyland stated that despite differences expressed by the CoLmcil that evening,
they all agreed on this item. Council Member Binell had walked with her along Bengal Boulevard,
and they agreed that the corridor should be the City's most walkable and bikeable. Schools and
the Recreation Center are located there, and there are many reasons to make it a pri01ity. She
thanked residents for their patience as the Council engaged shareholders, stakeholders, and other
interested parties. It was exciting that the project could move forward.

MOTION: Council Member Bin-ell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-31 Approving an
Agreement with H. W. Lochner, Inc. for Design Services for the Bengal Boulevard Pedestrian
Trail. The motion was seconded by Council Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member
Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        7.6     Consideration of Resolution 2026-32 Consenting to Appointments to the
                Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee. (By this Resolution the Council will
                consent to the manage,·'s reappointment ofthree members of'the City's Historic
                Committee).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed in the Work Session.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     46
Council Member Birrell stated that she was delighted to serve as the liaison to the Cottonwood
Heights Historic Committee, as it is a group of remarkable people. They will hold a Memorial
Day ceremony on Monday, May 25, 2026, at 9:00 a.m. at the Pioneer Cemetery on Creek Road.

MOTION: Council Member Binell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-32 Consenting to
Appointments to the Cottonwood Heights Historic Committee. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member
Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

8.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        8.1     Approval of the Minutes of the Citv Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of April 7, 2026, and April 21, 2026.


MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved t6 APPROVE the Minutes of tbe City Council Work
Session and Business Meetings of April 7, 2026 and Ap1il 21, 2026. The motion was seconded
by Council Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

Staff Reports were heard prior to adjourning the meeting.

9.0     AD,JOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. TI1e motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 9:56 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026      Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                     47
I hereby certify that the foregoing 1·epresents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and Business Meetings held on Tuesday,
1lfay 19, 2026.



Tey{ For~es
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for May 19, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                     48
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2026. AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                           Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                           Member Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:             City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance Director, Scott Jurgcs; Police
                           Chiei: Robby Russo; Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins;
                           City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen~Community and Economic Development
                           Director, Jim Spung; IT Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and
                           City Engineer, Matt Shipp; Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Battalion
                           Chief~ Riley Pilgrim; Assistant Police Chief, Chris McHugh;

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gav Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the~ ity Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA -Mavor Gay Lvnn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion reviewed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of A11cgiance would be
followed by Item 3, Property Impact Scheduled, presented by Financ:e Director, Scott Jurges.

Item 4 was a Public Hearing on the Tentative Budget for the City's 2026-2027 Fiscal Year. City
Attorney, Shane Topham reported that the public hearing must be formally closed after all budget
comment~ we~e heard as require_d by City Code. He understands the desire to a11ow the public to
speak About the budget, but there would be a separate public hearing in August regarding the
proposeg. tax increase. In his experience, it is rare to hear public comments on a Tentative Budget.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Mr. Topham recommended that a
vote be held to close the public hearing. The standard Citizen Comment Period could then begin.

ltem 6.1 was consideration of Resolution 2026-35 Emphasizing Sever Drought conditions and
Providing Enhanced \\Tater Conservation Measures for City Residents and Businesses. Council
Member Hyland asked if the resolution was drafted in conjunction with Salt Lake City Public
Utilities ("SLPCU"). Public Works Director, Matt Shipp reported that he drafted the resolution
after receiving a letter from SLPCU outlining what Tier 2 means. TI1e City cannot enforce water
restrictions, but he believed it would be advantageous to remind residents of the drought and show
the City's support for conservation.

Mr. Topham stated that if drought conditions worsened, the City Council could consider enacting
an ordinance prohibiting outside watering during certain hours of the day. However, because it is
not a water provider, the City does not have the ability to monitor usage.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
Mayor Bennion noted that the resolution included the following language:

        1.      Standard Watering Schedule. Residents served by SLCPU or JVWCD are strongly
                encouraged to limit outdoor lawn irrigation to a maximum of twice per week

        2.      Private Irrigation Users. Residents on private irrigation systems are encouraged
                to strictly follow the specific guidance provided by their system's managers,
                recogni:.ling that these systems operate on a traditional "water turn" basis.

        3.      Smart Technology & Weather Awareness. City urges the use of "smart irrigation
                controllers" that adjust based on local weather data. Regardless of the schedule, no
                irrigation should occur during high rain events to prevent significant water waste.

        4.      Deep Watering and Trees. Residents should practice "deep watering" to encourage
                resilient root growth. Preservation of estahlished trees is a priority; trees should be
                watered directly to ensure they continue to provide shade and air filtration for the
                community.

        5.      Xeriscape and Plantings. City promotes transitioning to xeriscaping and drought-
                tolerant native plantings. Residents arc encouraged to utilize local landscape
                principles to design functional, water-wise landscapes.

Mayor Bennion reported that a park strip near her home had been converted to drought-tolerant
plants, and they have beautiful flowers. Council Member Holton stated that the conversion is more
expensive than he expected, but it is nice.

Council Member Hyland stated that her home is on private water, and they are encouraged to water
in the afternoon because of system pressure. If the City Council were to consider an ordinance,
they would need to be aware that it should not apply to private systems.

The final item on the agenda was the Consent Calendar and approval of the May 5, 2026 City
Council Work Session and Business Meeting Minutes.

3.0     REPORTS

        3.1     Salt Lake County Presentation on County Budget. Services. and Key
                Priorities. Kara Trevino am/ Members of the Countv Council.

The above presentation took place after item 4.1.

Salt Lake County Council Chair, Aimee Winder Newton, introduced Legislative Affairs Director,
Kara Trevino. At-large County Council Memhcr, Suzanne Hanison, and District 6 County
Council Member, Dee Theodore introduced themselves.

County Council Member Newton rep01ted that they created a similar slide presentation for the
State Legislature and wanted to share that infonnation with cities. Salt Lake County historically

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      2
served both regional and municipal roles for unincorporated areas of the County, and State statute
required that they have separate budgets for each role. There was a wave of incorporations in the
1990s, including Cottonwood Heights. In the early 2000s, several townships became cities. A bill
passed in 2024 required all unincorporated islands to be annexed or incorporated by July 2027,
after which the only remaining unincorporated areas will be in the canyons and the County could
focus solely on its regional role.

County Council Member Hanison reviewed a list of services the County provides:

   •        Three-quarters of the County's general fund is dedicated to public safety. They are
            responsible for the jail, prosecution, district attorney, indigent defense, criminal justice
            services, etc.
    e       The County Clerk runs both general and municipal elections.
    •       The Salt Lake County Health Department inspects restaurants, offers vaccination
            clinics, and addresses health issues to ensure that the pub1ic stays safe.
    •       Aging and Adult Services provides-Meals on Wheels for indigent elderly residents and
            offers a lunch program and activities at its senior centers. The federally mandated
            Meals on Wheels program delivers over 2,000 meals a day to residents~ many of whom
            are at severe risk for food ins ecmity.
    •       In Utah, counties are the desigmted hehavioral health authorities and receive state and
            federal funding for those programs. They had worked hard to increase services and
            were opening three group homes in 2026 to house citizens with severe mental illness.
    •       The Salt Palace Convention Center and Mountain Amc1ica Expo Center are both
            owned by Salt Lake County.
    •       Tourism and sales taxes in the County save each household approximately $1,900 per
            year in prope1ty taxes. Tourism dollars also fund the County's parks and recreation
            department, as well as cultural and arts facilities.
    •       The County maintains regional parks, trails, and open spaces and offers a free My
            County Rec Pass that allows all children under 18 years of age to access any County
            recreation center, ice rink, pool, or climbing wall.
    •       Salt Lake County has a nationally recognized, award-winning library system. Because
            Murray and Salt Lake City had their own library systems and in order to avoid douhle
            taxation, libraries are funded through a prope1ty tax levy in all other jurisdictions. All
            library expenses are funded through property taxes.
    •       The County also collects and distributes property taxes with a 97% collection rate .

County Council Member Newton reported that Salt Lake County was trying to limit its role to
services that should be regional. The County has a mayor-and-council form of government.
Mayor Wilson is the executive in charge of day-to-day operations. The County Cotmcil consists
ofnine memhers, three at-large and six representing districts. Independent officials are also elected
for specific County roles based on State requirements. The County had decided to dissolve its
justice court in 2027.

County Council Member Newton discussed the County budget and repm1ed that the State Auditor
required all pass-through taxes and Utal1 Transit Authority ("UTA") fLmds to be run through the

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
budget even though the County has no control over those monies. Although the budget appears to
be $2 billion, it is actually only $1.5 billion. Transient Room Tax ("TRT") and Tourism,
Recreation, Cultural and Convention ("TRCC") tax revenues can only be used for tourism-related
purposes; culture, arts, parks and recreation, and the convention centern are funded through those
taxes. The general fund is approximately $500 million, and those monies are used for core
government services, primarily public safety. Special revenue funds for services like libraries and
behavioral health are restricted to specific uses, and all expenses in those categories must he paid
through those discretionary funds. Enterprise funds like the go] f courses, landfill, and public works
funds are self-sustaining; fees collected for services cover all expenses.

A total of 74% of the County's general fund goes to public safety, including the jail, district
attorney, indigent legal services, and criminal justice. Due to Truth in Taxation, inflation does not
increase revenue. As a result, Salt Lake County increased property taxes approximately every five
years to catch up with inflation. A 15% increase was instituted in 2025. County Council Member
Newton reported that the last tax increase was in 2019, and the 15% increase did not match
inflation over the same period. They had contemplated moving to small yearly inflationary
increases to avoid large increases every five to six years. A sample property tax statement was
reviewed, indicating the portion of property taxes that are received by the County, and County
Council Member Newton noted that the more educated citizens arc on Truth in Taxation, the better.

In response to a question from County Council Member Newton, it was reported that Cottonwood
Heights had only done one property tax increase since its incorporation. Council Member Hyland
stated that she had heard feedback from residents indicating that they would prefer gradual
increases that can be more easily assimilated into their household budgets. The Truth in Taxation
process is difficult and meant to stymy cities. It was noted that West Valley has yearly inflationary
increases of 2.8% to 3%.

County Council Member Newton reported that Salt Lake County is one of only 42 counties in the
nation with a AAA bond rating, and a referendum to vote down a tax increase could affect that
rating. -~The Salt Lake County Council conducts regular stress testing of all departments, where
each agency must propose 3% in cuts to use as a budgeting tool.

County Council Member Theodore reviewed public safety needs. The County has two jails:
Oxbow, which holds approximately 360 inmates, and the main adult detention center, which holds
approximately 2,000 inmates. A top need was jail expansion as they were at capacity, and the
Oxbow facility was failing. Their plan was to expand the main facility. A GO bond for the project
failed, but they were committed to addressing the issue with a lease revenue bond. There were
also more mental health and substance use issues, as well as more people leaving the jail into
homelessness. The jail expansion would include increasing mental health treatment from 88 to
160 beds.

Council Member Binell thanked the County Council for safety improvements to Old Wasatch
Boulevard, as well as the work of the Board of Health and the regional planning depaitment.
County Council Member Theodore encouraged the City Council to reach out to them with any
concems.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _   _ _ _ __

                                                      4
Council Member Holton stated that he had heard of many instances of people who were affested
for domestic violence and reoffended as soon as they were released. He appreciated the County's
work on that and other important issues.

Council Member Newell stated that he attends the County's quarterly safety meetings and is
astonished by the number of people coming together to solve issues with the jail system and
incarceration rates. He appreciated the ability to reach out to the County Council to discuss issues,
as it is critical for the City Council to have that resource and be able to bring information back to
their constituents.

County Council Member Harrison reporte<l that the County Council was working to raise
awareness about the resources available at the Crisis Care Center near the Metro Jail. Anyone who
is experiencing a mental health crisis can receive care at the center regardless of their ability to
pay, and law enforcement drop-offs average only four minutes.

4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Interim Budget - Flnance Director, Scott Jurges.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, reviewed updates to the draft Budget and Financial Policies. The
following changes needed additional input or approval from the City Council:

      •   General Fund: The recommended balance was between 15% and 25% of budgeted
          revenues.
      •   Stom1water Fm1d: Per Council Member Hyland's suggestion, the recommended balance
          was changed to $500,000 or 25% of revenues.
      •   Compensation: lfthe midpoint of a salary range is more than 5% below market, the grade
          for that position will be adjusted upward.
      •   Debt Service Policies: Debt service will be limited to not exceed X¾ of General Fund
          expenditures, excluding general obligation ("GO") bond debt.

Mr. Jurges indicated that the City currently had approximately $4 million in debt service costs,
wbich was approximately 10% of General Fund expenditures. He recommended that GO bond
debt be excluded, as it requires a citizen vote. An additional $10 million was also authorized for
the Town Center. The last heavy-duty sno\VJ)low payment would be made in December, after
which the Council would need to consider replacing that equipment. Current costs were almost
three times higher than when the snowplow was purchased 10 years previously. These factors
needed to be analyzed prior to setting a limit.

Council Member Hyland stated that it was imp01tant to point out that it is not a percentage of the
General Fund but only the expenditures. Holladay set their limit at 15% and specifically excluded
GO bonds, as those bonds have their own revenue source. She assumed that any percentage would
be reviewed and possibly revised by the long-tcnn Budget Committee, but was inclined to follow
Holladay's reasoning.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
In response to a question from Mayor Bennion, Mr. Jurges stated that they could use 15% as a
placeholder pending additional review. Ifhe detennined that it may need to be changed, he would
bring it to the Council's attention. Debt service payments were approximately $2.7 million,
including $300,000 in debt service payments on plows, so I 5% should be adequate.

Council Member Birrell stated that she was looking for more prudence in acquisition. The City
has a $30 million GO bond that it is cun-ently paying $1.1 million per year without being able to
advance the project on the advertised timeline. She wanted the guardrails to help both the current
and future City Councils slow acquisition until the City is fiscally sound. She understood that the
GO bond would not be included in this calculation, but it was an encumbrance on the City, as were
the bonds for City Hall, the Public Works complex, and potentially a shooting range.

Mr. forges reported that the Capital Asset Management Policy includes direction on ensuring that
the Council is considering future replacement and maintenance needs. There would be no up-
front capital costs or debt service for the shooting range, but there may be maintenance and utility
costs.

Council Member Hyland refen-ed to the Debt Service Policies and asked if"outside professionals
will be used when considering debt" rcfcned to bond debt. Mr. Jurges reported that Zions Public
Finance was the City's current financial advisor. They advise when it is wise to refinance debt,
whether to go to market with a direct placement or bid format, etc. Bond counsel is typically
involved for true bonds, but Zions Public Finance advises on rates and terms for other debt-like
vehicles. Other professionals could be engaged when necessary to ensure that the City is not only
relying on Staff expe1iencc, which may be limited in ce1tain areas. "Outside professionals" may
be appraisers, financ1al advisors, legal counsel, or other consultants.

Council Member Newell staled that the potential need for consultants would justify the 15% limit.
Council Member Hyland agreed and noted that the goal was to exercise limits that still allow
flexibility for future Councils. She was comfortable with 15%, and the long-tenn Budget
Committee could then review it and make any recommendations.

Mr. Jurges reported that actual expenditures are approximately $24 million, with the remainder
being transfers out of the General fund. He recommended that the language be modified to include
transfers out. Council Member Hyland stated that transfers out should be excluded as the fi.Jcus
should be on a percentage of expenses. Mr. Jurgcs pointed out that money is transfen-ed out of the
General Fund into the Debt S<:frvice Fund. Capital expenses also vary gTeatly year over year and
should be excluded. He would work with City Manager, Jared Gerher, to draft new language.
They may want to consider basing the percentage on revenues, which are much steadier.

The latest draft docrnnent was to be fo1warded to the City Council for review.

        4.2     The Budget Officer will Present and Make Availablc to the Public a Propertv
                Tax Impact Schedule as a Separate Document from Other Budget Documents
                - Finance Director, Scott .!urges.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved.· _ _ _ _ __

                                                      6
Mr. Jurges reported that the Property Tax Impact Schedule had not changed since the Tentative
Budget was adopted. Copies were available at the meeting, and the schedule was posted online.
The document would change slightly to retlect the final Certified Tax Rate, which should be
received between June 10 and June 13, and the final version would be forwarded to the Council as
soon as it was available.

        4.3     Public Safety Range Discussion - Police Chief. Robbv Russo.

Police Chiet: Robby Russo, reported that the Public Safety Training Range is a strategic
investment in officer readiness, regional partnerships, and community safety. The City's vision
was to partner with other agencies along the Wasatch Front, and they had obtained signed letters
of acknowledgment and appreciation from police chiefs in the Salt Lake Valley, Utah Highway
Patrol, the Canyons School Distiict, and others.

The project will provide a secure, modern, indoor fireanns range for the Cottonwood Heights
Police Department ("CH PD"), school guardians, and regional partners. Scenarios can be produced
on screen in a controlled environment so that, for example, an officer can be trained on how to
react to a car driving toward him while trying to flee, which will improve officer readiness and
response capabilities and may avoid a crisis in the future. The public safety asset was supported
through federal funding and designed with sound mitigation, security, and aesthetics in mind.

Chief Russo reviewed the financial aspects of the project as follows:

    •  A $2.1 million federal grant was received to purchase the range.
    •  The CHPD currently pays approximately $7,000 each year to rent outside ranges for
       training.
    • The proj ccted annual outside agency revenue was projected at a minimum of $62,000 based
       on rates for the Murray range. CHPD currently pays $500 per one-half day in rental fees,
      i nd the rate was increasing to $600.
    • Long-term maintenance costs were estimated at $17,500 per year to maintain the filtration
       system. Lead removal cost \Vas net zero as removal contractors credited the City for its
       value.

Independent sound testing for the Multiple interactive Learning Objectives ("MILO") range that
was provided by the manufachlrcr indicates that sound levels drop from 102 to 103 dB inside the
range to approximately 70 dB at 100 feet, which is comparable to common urban background
noise. The closest home to the proposed location is 140 feet away. Hearing and eye protection
are required inside the range. Chief Russo indicated that the ranges visited by the City Council
were not insulated, hut the City's range will have modem sound mitigation systems.

In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Chief Russo confinned that there would
also be an eight-foot wall and landscaping sunounding the range, which will further reduce noise.

Chief Russo reported that a Certified Range Master is required during live-fire operations, but an
additional full-time cqui valcnt ("fTE") cmpl oyec would not be required, as each agency will bring


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
their own Range Master to conduct training in the facility. The range will be opened, closed, and
inspected by Cottonwood Heights' Range Masters as part of their nomial duties. There will also
be strict outside-agency agreements, including liability waivers and insurance requirements.
Routine visual inspections will include ventilation, backstops, lighting, and emergency systems.
The automated system will also ale1t the City of any issues.

TI1c range is constructed of steel and fully contained, and the manufacturer reported that they had
never had a round escape the unit. They have ranges inside a Bass Pro Shop and a police
department surrounded by cubicles, and the range will stop a .50 caliber round. Assistant Police
Chief, Chris McHugh, added that the highest caliber allowed in the range will be .223 for patrol
rifles. Other agencies carry .308 sniper rifles, but they arc not practical in a 25-yard pistol range.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hi land, it was confinncd that the restriction
would be included in the agency agreement. Outside~agency Range Masters will also receive
training on the types of weapons and ammunition allowed in the range. Although it is rifle-rated
to a higher level, CHPD does not want rumor-piercing rounds shot inside the range because of the
possibility of damage. It will also be inspected after use to ensure that no damage has occurred.

In response to a question from Council vlcmbcr BiITell, Assistant Chief McHugh confinned that
the agency responsible for the damage will be responsible for repair costs. A visual inspection
will be conducted after use. The facility is also equipped with internal cameras, so any damage
found afler inspection can be determined.

An aerial map of the proposed location was displayed. Chief Russo reported that MILO chose the
location out of several options. It was also the City's prefened location as it is beside the Police
Department and can be easily secured.

Public Works Director, Matt Shipp reported that they considered locations all over the City, but
this w~s_::the best location for accessibility and security. It will be west of the Police Station in a
small -detention pond. Changes will be necessary, but it will have minimal impact on the
stonnwater system. Distance from the building and closest residence was maximized as much as
possible. The closest residence is approximately 140 feet from the facility. Placement will also
maximum open space available for K-9 training. The facility will be fully enclosed and accessed
through the Police Station. There will be a park strip area between the wall and parking lot and
larger landscaping area at the front, and plantings will add both aesthetic and sound barriers.

Council Member Hyland asked if the facility could be accessed through the exterior fence. It was
confinned that the only access will be through the Police Dcparhnent. Chief Russo reported that
everyone must check in prior to accessing the facility.

Regarding the K-9 training area, Chief Russo rep01ted that most training is conducted off leash,
and the area was cun-ently open. An added benefit of the wall is that it will create a secure training
area for K-9 units.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      8
Chief Russo discussed the facility's expected lifespan. Paint and metal were designed to last for
40 years. They can be repaired or rehabilitated, and MILO will purchase the unit if the City decides
to end operations.

Mr. Shipp reported that the proposed fencing is compiiscd of three-inch prccast concrete panels.
The estimated cost was between $41,000 and $57,000 depending on height, and Staff
recommended an eight-foot fence for security and soundproofing. It is the same color and style
fencing that sun-oLmds the City Hall parking lot. Other options were considered including a split-
face style, but Staff believed it was appropriate to match the current material.

Chief Russo reviewed estimated costs and revenues.

    •   Costs
            o Range: $2.16 million, including $60,000 in add-ons not covered by the grant
            o Stormwatcr improvements: $50,000
            o Perimeter wall: $57,000
            o Maintenance (annual): $17,000
            o Insurance (annual): $3,500 for $2.5 million in coverage
           o Total: $2.288 million
    •   Revenues
           o Federal grant: $2.1 million
           o Stom1water funds: $50,000
           o lntcragcncy use fees (annual): $62,000
           o Range rental savings (annual): $7,000
           o Donations: $40,000
           o Police Department surplus vehicle: $40,000
           o Total: $2.294 million

ChiefE,usso requested the City Council's support for the facility and approval of the development
and placement of the Public Safety Training range. The next steps would be to finalize
engineering, utility coordination, and funding acceptance, and speak with all property owners
within a 250-foot radius of the proposed site. He also asked that the Council consider what will
happen with the additional revenue received from other agencies, as the facility will produce
significantly more rcf\.:enuc than expenses.

Council Member Newell shared two stories about the importance of de-escalation. As a teenager,
he attended school in another area of the city as part of a desegregation program. He passed a
police car on his way home from football practice and saw it turn around. His parents taught him
not to pull over until he reached home, so the officers chased him to his home. At 16, he was
pulled out of the car at gunpoint and accused of driving a stolen vehicle. It was his father' s car.
His neighbors were home and verified that infonnation. The officers then re-holstered their guns
and left without saying anything. In the second incident, he was a 19-year-old football player for
the University of Utah. He and six friends were pulled over, removed from the vehicle, and frisked.
The officers only stopped when they saw the university logos on their shirts.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
Simulation systems are required to help de-escalate situations and ensure that all officers are
trained in the proper way to engage, because those types of incidents still happen today. Without
proper training and understanding of how to de-escalate a situation, there will be problems. The
range will have a positive impact on Cottonwood Heights and many communities across the
Wasatch Front. The community asked for de-escalation training in 2020, and the City now has the
opportunity to provide it. Council Member Holton and Chief Russo had done an amazing job of
obtaining the funding and getting police chiefs excited about the facility. It is an imperative need
and will allow the City to become a leader in ensuring that civil and human rights are protected.

Council Member Newell remarked that Utah has an anned citizemy, which requires a different
level of engagement. There are guardians in the high schools, and people openly carrying in the
streets, and this type of training is needed. He is an advocate for the facility and hopes that his
points helped people understand the importance of educating police officers in a professional way
so they are able to police the community in a professiQnal way.

Council Member Holton stated that a murder-suicide occurred the previous week, and his wife
asked how officers know when they are walkin-g3{~to an active, violent situation. He told her that
he did not think they knew, and her response was-that she hoped they know what they're doing.
Training is c1itical. Things happened in the count1y fiv~ to six years ago that caused people to
demand better de-escalation training, and he hoped the community could see that the facility would
deliver on that request and ensure that Cottonwood Heights police officers are properly trained on
both using their weapon if necessary and de-escalation. He was grateful for Canyons School
District's support for the facility. State law requires guardians with firearms in schools, and they
need proper training.

Mayor Bennion stated that she visited the MILO facility with Chief Russo and Assistant Chief
McHugh. She agreed that there is a need for training, but was concerned about the site. The
original plan was to locate the facility near the Public Works complex and away from residential
areas and City Hall. Her husband is a retire □ Air Force physician who specialized in occupational
and environmental medicine, and his recommendation was that it be located 70 feet from
residential propc1iics for noise reduction and 400 feet for Iead. The person perfonning lead
removal does so in a hazmat suit, and there is a possibility of lead escaping into the environment
during removal. Because the City does not have a specific noise ordinance, it relies on County
standards. For a typical single-family residence, the maximum noise level is 60 dB during the day
and 50dB at night. She rec01mnended that the City conduct a study to detennine the actual noise
level outside of the gate and fence.

Mayor Bennion asked if the City could partner with another municipality to site the facility outside
of Cottonwood Heights. Chief Russo clarified that the facility was presented as a City asset that
would he shared regionally and would add great value to the City. They had no desire to seek
placement in another municipality. Mayor Bennion stated that City Manager, Jared Gerber, had
told her that a school site and other locations were considered, but there were not a lot of options
available. There was nothing in writing requiring the facility to be located within the City, and
they could potentially partner with another municipality to find an optional site that will not impact
a residential neighborhood. Chief Russo stated that it had been suggested, hut the Police
Department opposed it because the City would lose control of a valuable asset. He did not agree

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ __ __

                                                      10
that there were risks to the location. A gun range was originally proposed when City Hall was
constrncted but was abandoned due to budget constraints. The Public Works complex was a
secondaiy site. Mayor Bctmion reiterated that Mr. Gerber told her it was the primary site listed on
the application and the City had actively looked at outside locations.

Mayor Bennion was also concerned about the impact to property values. She asked if ranges in
other cities were as close to a neighborhood. Assistant Chief MeHugh stated that he had not
researched that issue, but the facilities can be placed in people's homes, and Cottonwood Heights
could allow a variance to do so. Mayor Bennion noted that that would be an active choice by a
property owner. She requested information on the distance between other facilities and residential
neighborhoods, as well as any impacts on property values. A study should be conducted to ensure
that the daytime noise level is below 60 dB. Mayor Bennion cares about the City' s police officers
and the cmmnunity and wanted to ensure the facility doj s not have a negative impact on the area,
as it was not the originally planned location.             ~


Council Member Holton stated the City does not specify a location on the application but commits
to finding one. If a location was included, they would be obligated to site it tl1ere. The funding is
different from traditional grant programs. Cottonwood Heights was the specified recipient, and
his understanding was that ownership could not be transfened. They may be able to lease property
elsewhere, but the facility likely needs to stay within the city.

Chief RLtsso reported that the Murray facility is near a large apartment complex and behind
Intermountain Medical Center. The Lehi facility is in its police department and in the middle of a
residential area, and !h.?-t was a retrofitted garage without the safety mechanisms the Cottonwood
Heights range wouldH~ve. They considered tl:ie school site, but it did not meet the City's needs
due to parking, access,f.i.rid security issues, as well as potential public perception that the City was
complicit in closing a school.

Council Member Hyland asked for more infonnation on the independent lead removal company.
Chief Russo stated that Murray uses Action Target, which is based in Utah County. They remove
the lead and provide a credit toward paper targets and other items based on their value. Murray
has a different type ofrecovery system. The new facility will deposit spent rounds into containers
that resemble a five-gallon paint bucket. They are removed within the HEPA-filter area and stored
under negative pressure. Filters are changed out inside and placed in bags in that same area, then
removed by the same company.

Mayor Bennion stated that she was impressed with MILO and their facilities, and she believes the
range will add value to officer training. She was not opposed to the facility but was concerned
about its siting. Answers to her previously stated questions about noise, distance from residences,
and home values would be helpful. Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins stated that
she messaged Mr. Gerber, who indicated that they had considered the Bella Vista Elementary
School property but City Hall was the best location for a number of reasons. Council Member
Holton stated that some cities attempted to obtain a similar appropriation but were unsuccessful
and others had expressed interest in partnering on a location, which may have been part of Mayor
Bcnnion's discussion with Mr. Gerber.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      11
Council Member BiITell appreciated the information provided at that meeting and an earlier
meeting with Chief Russo and Staff. This was the second City Council discussion on the matter.
She had requested additional documentation, which indicated that Council Member Holton was
involved in advancing the grant request in 2023. Council Member Holton previously served as
Senator Mike Lee's Deputy Chief of Staff and therefore had the contacts to obtain the funding.
The document she had seen indicated that the initial request was for a shooting range and did not
mention de-escalation training, but it was now being framed as emphasizing de-escalation. She
lost her father to g1m violence and cares deeply about the topic.

The range was referred to as the Wasatch Front Regional Public Safety Firearms Training Facility.
Council Member Birrell credited Council Member Holton and Chief Russo for their efforts, but
her duty was to look out for the wellbeing of resident~~if~Cottonwood Heights, and she did not
understand why the City would take on a regional projgf."' She believed it should be located at a
greater distance from residences as part of an interlocal agreement with another city. That would
also decrease liability and risk.

Murray recently spent $1 million on their facility, and Council Member BiITell would like to know
the anticipated major refurbishment schedule and cost for the facility. It was proposed as a net
positive revenue stream, but $1 million would be a large cost to future residents of the City. She
asked if utility costs were included in the estimates and if studies were conducted comparing
:frangible ammunition to lead and ignition fumes. She also supported a decibel study.

Council Member Holton reviewed a letter from the Valley Police Alliance to Representative John
Curtis dated March 26, 2024, and noted that de-escalation was always listed as a priority. Mayor
Bennion remarked that the available scenarios could provide good training.

Assistant Chief McHugh reported that when he was tasked with the project, it was to build a
training facility, not just a live-fire range. The facility has the ahility to create custom scenarios
based Qll- c1ment events or specific locations. His concern with an alternate location is that the
City co1t_lg_ lose control and end up paying for a facility that they worked to obtain. Council
Member B irrell stated that her suggestion was for an interlocal agreement, not losing control of
the facility. She is in favor of de-escalation training but the project needed to be analyzed based
on the hest outcome for the people of Cottonwood Heights.

Council Member Holton stated that the facility can be used with live or simulated ammunition.
Assistant Chief McHugh added that simuhlted ammunition will save on ammunition and filter
costs. He believes the facility checks a lot of boxes and will provide training CHPD did not
cuuently have access to. If they have an issue with an officer, they will be able to provide them
with immediate and specific training. The City was having trouble recrniting and retaining
officers, and the facility would also help with those efforts.

Council Member Hyland stated that MILO will purchase and remove the facility, and whether to
refurbish or sell it would be decided by a future City Council. She believes it will be a shining
example for proper police and guardian training. She was disappointed that the Council would
ignore 85 dB for pickleball but take issue with 60 dB for the range. She appreciated that CHPD


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
planned to reach out to citizens. There was ample time to perfonn due diligence prior to a Council
vote, and neighbors could express their concerns during that outreach.

Council Member Hyland was comforted in the fact that the company had been in operation for 30
years and was able to answer questions. Questions still needed to be asked, and if significant safety
concerns arose, the Council should vote no. She was comfortable continuing to move forward
with the process and potentially having this training opportunity for both the community and all
communities along the Wasatch Front.

Council Member Holton agreed that it would be helpful to understand the actual noise impacts
when the wall and landscaping are factored in.

A majority of the City Council was in favor of moving fonvard with the project.

        4.4     Flash Vote Discussion - Council Member, Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland stated that when the City contracted with FlashVote. the City Council
was assured that they would help develop a member panel that is representative ofthe community.
The goal in samplmg is to have a sample that represents the population, and the gold standard for
statistical surveys is a random sample. Y2K Analytics is expensive because they keep reaching
out to people until they have enough respondents to be representative of the population, which
takes a lot of time. FlashVote offered an alternate opportunity to develop a member panel that is
representative of the population. The FlashVote margin of error is higher than other methods
because the member pane1 is substituted for a random sample.

The reason the Council decided to fund the surveys was because they want trusted results, and
FlashVote assured them that this could be accomplished through the member panel. The smveys
are conducted quickly rather thari taking w_eeks like random sampling, but the tradeoff is accuracy.

Council Member Hyland discussed the member panel. Outreach had been conducted through the
community newsletter, Cmmcil eff011s, and other methods. The current member panel was
approximately 50% male and female. Age ranges were also equally represented with the exception
of age 30 and under, which FlashVote had indicated was not uncommon. Cottonwood Heights is
predominately an older community, so the current age distribution was representative of the
population. However, there was a discrepancy in district participation, with District 1 only having
approximately 16% participation and District 4 having approximately 35%.

Council Member Hyland initially spoke with FlashVote about either adjusting the member panel
or selecting participants to even out the differences between District 4 and District 1. However,
FlashVote wants all the raw data they can get. Instead of randomizing the member panel, their
solution was to weight survey data to balance representation across districts, which they indicated
would ensure equal influence from all districts regardless of population size. They arc developing
a dashboard that will enable the City to look at the results differently.

Flash Vote talked about helping the Council be better equipped to interpret survey data. To do so,
they would grant the Council early access to the beta version of the dashboard. Council Member

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      13
Hyland was opposed to doing any additional surveys until the member bias could be addressed.
She also requested that FlashVote join the City Council virtually to explain the survey data so they
can be confident that there is no hias in how the data is gathered or reported.

Results of the first City survey were reviewed. Results can be fi ltered by ownership, district,
gender, etc., but the Member Panel filter is most important as it shows the number of member
responses versus others who accessed the survey through a forwarded link. The margin of error
was+/- 6%. As the member panel size increases, the margin of error should decrease. If FlashVote
could not deliver better results, she questioned whether the City should continue its contract with
them. Results can be very misleading unless you understand what they represent. For example,
in graph fmm, the ''other" responses seemed abnonnally high, but in reality, it was only 10 people
versus 273 panel responses.

Council Member Hyland was encouraged that FlashVote was willing to help the City better dial
in the data. When another survey is conducted, .she asked that they virtually attend a City Council
meeting to discuss how they addressed bias and-what results the Council should focus on. She
finds the free responses particularly insightful. Potential bias is not unique to Cottonwood Heights,
but she needs to feel comfortable that the data can he trusted and is reported in a fair and
representative way.

5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        a.      CHaRM Hard-to-Recycle Event - Saturday, June 6, 2026, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00
                p.m. ~ Hillside Plaza.
        b.      FBI {Iyber Awareness Presentation - Tuesday, June 9th from 5;30 p.m. to
                7:30 p.m. at City Hall in the Community Room.
        c.     J!utlervillc Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026.
        d.      Block Party/Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside
                Plaza.

Council Member Newell stated that he works with the FBI on a regular basis and helped facilitate
the Cyber Awareness presentation. It will focus on cybcr sccuiity for the City's youth and aging
population.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITJGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY. THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PER.J.~ITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session and
open a Closed Meeting for the purpose of discussing real property; the character and professional
competence or physical or mental health of an individual; or any other permitted purposes. The
motion was seconded by Council Memher Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved. _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
Mayor Bennion stated that she received an evaluation for City Manager, Jared Gerber. One of the
Council's primary responsibilities is hiring and working with the City Manager, who runs the City.
During the Closed Meeting, the Council would take feedback from department heads and discuss
the evaluation.

The City Council was in closed session from 6:06 PM to 7:00 PM.

7.0     ADJOUUN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:05 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                           Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                           Member Ellen Bin-ell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurgcs; Police ~hief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Hj ggins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           C01mnunity and Economic ~Development Director, Jim Spung; IT
                           Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Unified Fire ~uthority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim;
                           Consultant, Frank Nakamura; Consultant, Keui Nakamura

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Cotmcil Member Newell led tbc Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     PROPERTY TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE - Budget Officer Scott Jurges will present
        and make available to the public a Propcrtv Tax Impact Schedule as a separate
        document from other budget documents.

Mr. Jurgcs:              So, with our hudgct, we have the property tax impact schedule that is
                         available online, as well as we have physical copies over here on the table
                         by the sign-in sheet. What this does is it demonstrates what our 2025 tax
                         year property tax rate was with our current revenue associated with that, and
                         then our proposed revenue with the tax increase of $3.5 million.

                         The estimated percentage of that tax increase is 42.87%. Monthly, that
                         would equal $20.92 on the average home of$819,000, and $251.03 annually
                         on that same $819,000 home. For businesses, to make it easy to scale it,
                         depending on the size of the commercial property, we made it on a flat $1
                         million. So, on a $1 million commercial property, it would be $46.44 a
                         month and $557.28 annually.

                         This outlines by department what would be affected ifwc did not do the full
                         tax increase. In General Government, it woul<l be about $1 million. Public
                         Safety would be just under $2 million, $1,778,000. In Public Works, it
                         would be just under $500,000 at $498,000. Community and Economic

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
                         Development would be about $160,000. All adding up to that full $3 .5
                         million proposed tax increase. This document, like I said, is available here.
                         It's available on our website. If you can't access it that way, we will have
                         copies of it here at the City. Anybody can come at any time, and we can
                         print more if needed.

4.0     PUBLIC HEARING ON TENTATIVE BUDGET FOR THE CITY'S 2026-2027
        FISCAL YEAR

Mayor Bennion:           The next item on our agenda at this business meeting is a Public hearing on
                         the Tentative Budget for the City's 2026-2027 Fiscal Year. This is an
                         opportunity for us to hear from the public specifically on this Tentative
                         Budget. If you are here to speak on that tentative budget, please come
                         fonvard. I have cards for people, but I don't know your topic of interest, so
                         if I have your card and you're here to speak for the budget, please come.

Runar Bowman:            Good evening, Mayor and Council. Before I came up, I just quickly read
                         the Truth in Taxes document on the website. I thought it was well presented
                         and gave you-some good information. I just wanted to comment on
                         something I'd like to see the Council maybe address possibly, and that is
                         growing a bigger pie for the City. In other words, economic development.
                         I know that in the past I've seen budget proposals, and our expenses are
                         increasing and our revenues are flat. Not a good look, obviously, and I think
                         that still continues to this day. The obvious thing is, if you're a private
                         business, you try to grow your business. You promote. "Cottonwood
                         Heights, we're open for bffsiness. This is a great place to have a business."
                         I think that should be really strongly emphasized going fonvard.

                         I also think that we also have the expense side. I know that from experience,
                         l was recently unemployed for five months, worst time of my life, but it did
                         make me focus on what was important, and I cut expenses to the bone.
                         When I see the Council proposing this tax increase, I say, "Okay, if you
                         make a case for increasing our taxes, I can get on board with that, but l want
                         to see some sharing of the pain, so to speak." You're going to tax us more,
                         but I want to see you guys cut your expenses, and I think there's room for
                         that. I know that it might not seem like it, but I see some obvious low-
                         hanging fruit. I'm not an insider, I don't know, but city government is just
                         managing the business of government. It's pretty basic. It's services. It's
                         fire safety. It's infrastructure. All the rest is not really important.

                         When I see something like we have a sustainability officer, is that
                         important? I guess you could debate that. Also, we're giving away free
                         electricity outside here. ls that necessary to do that for running the
                         government? Probably not. Granted, those two examples won't move the
                         needle, I get it, but it shows the taxpayers that, "Hey, we're doing everything
                         we can because this is going to hurt you 6ruys. We can feel your pain, so

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026             Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      17
                         we're going to be right along with you. We're going to be cutting to the
                         bone because we're asking you to sacrifice as well." What I'd like to see is
                         something of that nature. Here we are making a bigger pie, we're cutting
                         our expenses, we're just going to focus on City services and running the
                         government lean and mean. That way, when you guys come to us and say,
                         "We want to raise your taxes," we11l say, "All right. You make a case for
                         it. We'll buy into it." We might not be happy, but we can understand the
                         logic, and you have your munbers to back it up. But if you're not cutting
                         your expenses at the same time, it falls on deaf ears, and that's kind of what
                         I'm seeing right now.

                         I read that Truth in Taxes, I get l t, bu! I'd like to sec some movement on
                         expanding the pie and reducing y_gui· expenses. Thank you.

Mayor Bennion:           Thank you. Anyone else here to speak to the public hearing on the Tentative
                         Budget? If it's any oth~ topic, please wait, because we'll have other time
                         for citizen comments nof i:m the budget.

Bob Jacobs:              Hi, my name.'."i s Bob Jacobs. I've lived in this area for 50 years. My first
                         reaction whe n I heard the scuttlebutt about the budget was,
                         "Holy mackerel! What's the Council and Mayor been doing for the last five
                         or six years to put us in the situation wc1rc in now, where we have to raise
                         taxes 50%?" I was kind of taken aback at 50%. Whoa, that's crazy! But
                         th<::n I looked at the numbers.

                         When I get my tax bill, Canyons School District: $1,300, Canyons School
                         District debt: $500, State school levy: $600, that's $2,400, Salt Lake
                         County: $500, Salt Lake County Library: $200, Central Water: $200.
                         Cottonwood Heights is $500. I'm just using basic numhers off my
                         experience. $500, 50% of that, that's $200. $200, that's $5 a week, let's say.
                         I can't even go get a latte at Starbucks for $5. I can get a coffee or iced tea.
                         For $5 a week, I get my City government back in shape again, hopefully.

                         Personally, I'm living mainly off Social Security, so Pd rather see a 100%
                         increase in the taxes and Cottonwood Heights City do a lot of things for the
                         City that we're not doing now. Why don't we run a trolley up and down Fort
                         Union Boulevard so people don't have to drive to get places? Why don't we
                         get a couple of golf carts and run a little loop between Hillside Plaza, City
                         Hall, and the Recreation Center so people can get around our City for free
                         and leave their car at home? I'd rather pay a little more money and get a lot
                         more services.

                         I still got a lot of time left. I did want to talk about something else. Should
                         I do that later? Okay.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      18
                         l would just say, when it comes to voting in this budget, some people are
                         going to say, "Hey, all that's history. I'm not responsible for stuff." Reality
                         is, today, this is the budget. This is what we need to do if we want to be
                         able, as a City, to do things. I'm hoping when the vote's taken, it's
                         unanimous to pass the budget that's proposed, if not more. I'd rather sec
                         more tax and more services for our City. It's $5 a week. Thanks.

Mayor Bennion:           Thank you. Any other comments for public record? That was Bob Jacobs.
                         I have a card for Randy. Do you want to speak to the budget, Randy? This
                         is just for the budget item. Okay then, we'll wait. All right. With that, I'll
                         take a motion.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to CLOSE the Public Hearing on the Tentative
Budget. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Council.

Mayor Bennion:           This closes the public hearing on the Tentative Budget. We will do this
                         again during this Truth in Taxation period on this budget, continue to have
                         hearings. Now we open for citizen comments.

5.0     CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment period.

Bob Jacobs expressed his support for Utah Renewable Communities. He was present at the last
meeting when the Council voted and heard every Council member stand up and say they were
l 00% behind renewable energy, btifthcn heard some people say that Cottonwood Heights citizens
are not intelligent enough to    knowhow to opt out of the program, or that they were concerned
about refi_~wable energy being proguced outside Utah instead of in Utah. Many other things also
came nit/as reasons not to join. -·By withdrawing from the program, it will look to everybody
outside the CHy that Cottonwood Herghts City is not in favor of renewable energy. Whatever the
reasons were to reject our chance to support renewable energy, in the future, those things will pale
in comparison to the fact that we did not take the opportunity to support renewable energy as a
City.

Randy Long stated that the Bonneville Shoreline Trail should be included in the budget if it was
not already included. Many other entities involved in the trail had either finished or were nearing
completion of their section, but Cottonwood Heights was lagging behind with only one section
finished from Big Cottonwood to Ferguson Canyon. After that, the committee wanted to complete
the trail through Deaf Smith Canyon. He did not know what would be next, perhaps the abandoned
jeep road. The trail also needs to be finished north of the Gravel Pit. The Gravel Pit is not going
to be there very long, so it will no longer generate noise. The trail needs to be finished, and
Cottonwood Heights was lagging behind. Holladay and Millcreek were also behind, but the City
did not need to follow them.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026              Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
Runar Bowman disagreed with Mr. Jacobs' statement, as he believes the City Council and
Cottonwood Heights in general are supportive of renewable energy. The roof of City Hall is
covered in solar panels that cost $155,000 of taxpayers' money. Blue Sky rate payers pay the 80%
balance. They spent their money on the rooftop solar, and we spent money on the rooftop solar.
He believes that more tlrnn other cities, Cottonwood Heights is in support of renewable energy.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment Peliod was closed.

6.0     ACTION ITEMS

        6.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-35 Emphasizing Severe Drought Conditions
                and Providing Enhanced Water Conservation Measures for Citv Residents
                and Businesses.
                (Bv this resolution the Council will emphasize the anticipated upcoming severe
                drought condirions and provide a series of water ~conservation measure~, that
                would decrease water consumption and thereby ameliorate the severity of the
                anticipated drought).

Council Member Hyland thanked Public Works Director, Matt Shipp, for being proactive and
bringing the ordinance to the Council's attention. It would not be enforced initially, but it would
bring awareness to the importance of being water-wise in this drought year, and is a good signal
to all residents that the City is aware. There was quite a bit of pushback on Facebook for limiting
the splash pad to two days per week. However, it is not on a circulating system and is on its last
leg. The City is trying to do its part to conserve water and appreciates residents doing the same.

MOTION: Cow1cil Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-35 - Emphasizing
Severe Drought Conditions and Providing Enhapced Water Conservation measures for City
Residents and Businesses. The motion was seconded by Council Member Birrell. Vote on
Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-
Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        7.1     Approval of the Minutes of the Citv Council Work Session and Business
                Meetings of May 5, 2026.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE the Minutes of the May 5, 2026 City
Council Work Session and Business Meetings. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Newell. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

8.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:23 p.m.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
I hereby certify that the.foregoing represeltts a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottomvond Heights City Council Work Session and Business Meetings held on Tuesday,
June 2, 2026.


Tev"L Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ __ _ __

                                                      21
  ""-,jl~...,[,J   'It' ·' .
                { ,J,1.'y,

       Cottonwood Heights
        Gry 6m,w11 th< mnJm/1




               3a.

        REPORT

Public Utilities Board

        Ted Boyer
~~--,..,,        ~\,(

   Cottonwood Heights
   City brr,..~rn 11,r ""')Oil/




            3b.

   REPORT
  A1nerica 250

  Micki Harris
  Cottonwood Heights
  City l~mYm r/,r tdt~)•IIJI




           4a.

STAFF REPORT
Interim Budget
  Scott Jurges
                       Cottonwood Heights
                        City between tl1r c,mym,




                               -4b.
                    STAFF REPORT
The Budget Officer ,viii present and make available to the
  public a Property Tax Impact Schedule as a separate
            document from other documents.
                       Scott Jurges
               r!J,,·. '
     Cottonwood Heights
     Ciry brm..,,,, rhe c,m;om




             4c.

 STAFF REPORT
Just Serve Discussion
    Jared Gerber
Meeting Requested:          Business Meeting D     Work Session L:s:l   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?      Yes D No 1x; Undetermined D
                            Denied D    Approved ~ Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                            ' -· ·= /£,-'_
                            CM Signature:_ ,,- •      •
                                                           --



City Manager Jared Gerber will lead a discussion on Just Serve,
                       ~
                   (Ii'., '
         Cottonwood Heights
         Cit')' bmi ~m rfN ''"(>0111




                  4d.

     STAFF REPORT
Short Term Renta] Discussion
   Councilme1n ber Hy land
Meeting Requested:         Business Meeting D          Work Sess;on IZI   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?     Yes □ No IXl Undetermined □
                           Denied □       Approved IRl Continued □
CM Approval or Denial                            /     -·:'<'.ft
                           CM Signature: _ ' ;;,-"--.;, f.-- -



Councilmember Suzanne Hyland will lead a d·1scussion on Short Term Rentals.
                        ( If\ .....I   ,


           Cottonwood Heights
           City httu.'(fl/ tl,r r,lll)<llli




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

                      4.0
          REPORTS
          UFA Report
          Riley Pilgrim
                               ft" .
                            wood Heights
              l 'tJJ b-ttt,x~,, ,,,~ !7/llJVl'll



UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY QUARTERLY REPORT




 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
          QUARTER 1
       JAN. 1 , 2026 - MAR. 31 , 2026



          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS LIAISON
             Battalion Chief Riley Pilgrim
                              (801) 556-5454
                  rpilgrim@unifiedfire.org
   529
TOTAL INCIDENTS



    77            CALL VOLUME
  EMERGENT            QUARTER 1
                   JAN . 1, 2026 - MAR , 31, 2026




 15°/o
 % EMERGENT
      01 Monthly Incident counts       01 Quarterly Total Incident counts



250                                    600
200                                    500
                                       400
150
                                       300
100                                    200
50                                     100
  0                                      0
      Jan 2026   Feb 2026   Mar 2026         Q1 2024   Q1 2025   Q1 2026
                              01 Call Type
                             JAN. 1, 2026 - MAR. 31, 2026




                                                            TOP OTHER CALLS
  TOP FIRE CALLS                TOP EMS CALLS

Structural
                         3   Fall                  56       Lift Assist        22
Involvement Fire
                             Sick Person           40       Accidental Alarm   15
ConfinedCooking/
Appliance Fire
                         3
                             Psychological
                             Behavior Issues
                                                   29       CO Alarm           11
Qumpster/Other           1
Outdoor Container Fire
                             Breathing Problems    28       Malfunctioning     g
Trash/Rubbish Fire       1                                  Alarm

                             Motor Vehicle
Vehicle Fire             1   Collision
                                                   28       Fire/Smoke Alarm   8
 Top Engine/Truck Responses

    Station
 110 - C. Heights                                  56.8
   116 - Wasatch                                     %
    126 • Midvale EiJ                              35.0
  101 - MIiicreek I 2                                %
   125 .. Midvale I2                               6.9%
   108 • Brighton 1                                0.4%
  112 - Olympus 1
                                                   0.4%
117 • Taylorsville 1
                                                   0.2%
                  0   50 100 150 200 250 300 350
                                                   0.2%



                        I
                            535          I
                                         I
                                                   0.2%



                    TOTAL UNIT RESPONSES
    Top Ambulance Responses


    Station
    110 • C. Heights                                               74.0
      126 • Midvale ·~                                              %
     116 -Wasatch      ID                                          14.8
     104 • Holladay    I1                                           %
      125 - Mldvale    Ia                                          7.9%
206 • East Mllkrei?k f 2                                           1.8%
    101 • Mlllcrei?k       1                                       0.8%
                       0       so    100   150   200   250   300   0.5%
                                                                   0.3%


                                       I   392 :
                                    TOTAL UNIT RESPONSES
               ■

               ■                 EMERGENT TOTAL TIME
90th PERCENTILE
*Dispatch to Arrival (does not
                                         QUARTER 1
                                      JAN. 1, 2026 - MAR. 31, 2026
 include call processing time)
          Cottonwood Heights
          Ci~~ brr1<w11 thr r,lllJM.I




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                   7.0
         Action Items
         Shane Topha1n
Tiffan Janzen

From:                       Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                       Wednesday, June 10, 2026 2:27 PM
To:                         Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Cc:                         Scott Jurges
Subject:                    IEXT:]Legislation for June 16th City Council Business Meeting
Attachments:                WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-34 Adopting Interim Budget for FY 2026-27.pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                            Heights-Resolution 2026-35 Adopting Property Tax Impact Schedule for FY 2026-27.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                            Resolution 2026-36 Adopting Property Tax Levy and Rate for FY 2026-27.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution
                            2026-37 Accepting Bid and Approving Construction Contract for Staker Way Drainage and 2700 East and De Ville
                            Drive Roadway Improvements Project.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Construction Contract for Staker Way Drainage
                            - 2700 East and De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements Project (5.27.26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution
                            2026-38 Accepting Bid and Approving Construction Contract for 3000 East & BCC Trail Crosswalk Project.pdf; WST-
                            Cottonwood Heights-Construction Contract for 3000 East & BCC Crosswalk Project (5.27.26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                            Heights-Resolution 2026-39 Approving Amendment to Transportation and Land Use Connection Agreement with
                            Landmark Design (General Plan Update).pdf; Cottonwood Heights GP Contract Amendment 3.docx.pdf; 26-0511 LDI
                            CH Proposal for Contract Amendment.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-40 Approving Consulting
                            Agreement with Dunn Associates for Old Mill Analysis.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Consulting Agreement with
                            Dunn Associates for Old Mill Structurol Analysis (City CLEAN 6.9.26).pdf; SOQ for Cottonwood Heights Old Mill
                            Analysis_Dunn Associates.pdf; 2026.05.29_0Id Mill Preservation Feasibility Study.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                            Resolution 2026-41 Approving Garff Enterprises Vehicle Repurchase Option (2026).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-
                            CHPD Vehicle Repurchase Agreement with Garff Enterprises (2026-28).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Vehicles-2026
                            Vehicles List.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-42 Approving Zions Bank Lease-Purchase (2026 CHPD
                            and PW Vehicles).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-42 Approving Zions Bank Lease-Purchase (2026
                            CHPD and PW Vehicles).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Vehicles-2026 Zions Bank Lease Package (Fl NAL 6.9.26).docx;
                            WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-43 Approving Planning Commission Appointments.pdf; WST-
                            Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-44 Approving PTOS Committee Appointments.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the June 16th city council
business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

        1. Resolution 2026-34. By this resolution, the council will adopt the interim budget for FY 2026-27 as
           required under state law for entities proposing an increase to the certified tax rate. The interim
           budget will be circuiated separatety by Scott Jurges.

      2. ResSJlvtion 2026-35. By this resolution, the council will adopt the FY 2026-27 property tax impact
         schedule with updated information as required by state law for entities proposing an increase to
         the certified tax rate. The tax schedule will be circulated separately by Scott Jurges.

      3. Resolution 2026-36. By this resolution, the council will adopt a proposed tax levy and rate before
         22 June 2026 as required by state law, subject to further required actions including a truth-in-
         taxation hearing on 11 August 2026 or another date determined by the Salt Lake County Auditor.

      4. Resolution 2026-37. By this resolution, the council will approve and ratify a $259,786.50 bid and
         award a construction contract to Stapp Construction, Inc. for the work and materials to complete
         the city's project no. 25.009-Staker Way Drainage Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive
         Roadway Improvements Project. A copy of the proposed construction contract also is attached.

        5. Resolution 2026-38. By this resolution, the council will approve and ratify a $298,166.55 bid and
           award a construction contract to Acme Construction, Inc. for the work and materlals to complete
      the city's project no. 006.26-3000 East & BCC Trail Crosswalk Project. A copy of the proposed
      construction contract also is attached.

  6. Resolution 2026-39. By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to a 2020
     agreement through Wasatch Front Regional Council concerning consulting services for an update
     of the city's general plan being performed by Landmark Design. The purpose of the amendment is
     to modify the scope of work anticipated to be needed to complete the subject general plan
     update. Copies of the proposed amendment agreement and its exhibits also are attached.

  7. Resolution 2026-40. By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into an agreement
     whereunder Dunn Associates, Inc. will conduct an independent structural integrity assessment
     and preservation cost study of the historic "Old Mill" structure located at 6851 South Big
     Cottonwood Canyon Road in the city. Copies of the current draft of the proposed agreement and
     its exhibits also are attached. The agreement still is being negotiated as of this writing, however,
     so it's possible that changes may be made to it before the June 161~ meeting. If they are material,
     I'll alert you in the June 16th work session.

  8. Resolution 2 0 ~ . The city's leased fleet of police and public works vehicles is rotated every
     approximately two years. Because the vehicle lessor (here, Zions Bank) requires the city to
     purchase the fleet at the end of the lease term, the city requires the original seller of the fleet
     (here, Garff Enterprises) to agree at the time of sale to repurchase the fleet at the end of the lease
     term, thereby insulating the city from the repurchase risk. This resolution will approve the city's
     entry into that repurchase agreement. Copies of the proposed agreement and its exhibits also are
     attached.

   9. Resolution 2026-42. This resolution will approve the city's entry into the lease of a new fleet of
      police and public works vehicles from Zions Bancorporation. Copies of the proposed
      lease/purchase agreement and its exhibits also are attached.

   1 o. Resolution 2026-43. By this resolution, the council will consent to the manager's appointment, re-
        appointment or re-assignment of several members of the city's planning commission.

   11. Resolution 2026-44. By this resolution, the council will consent to the manager's appointment of
       several members of the city's parks, trails and open space committee.

Please contact me as soon as possible inhere are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Kind regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
tel+801.808.6325 I 6.iQ

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. If you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and notify: wst@tophamlegat.com.


                                                       2
EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                3
                        ~ ~~          '"' '
                                    ( 1)11 · \ '

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Cuy br1tffm thr r,mJow




                                  7.1
                      Resolution 2026-34
   By this resolution, the council adopts the Interim Budget as
required under State law for entities proposing an increase to the
                            certified tax.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTIONNO. 2026-34


        A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL (THE "COUNCIL") OF THE CITY OF
    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (THE "()Jr") ADOPTING AN lNTERlM BUDGET (THE
 "]NTERJM BUDGET") PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) THAT IS BASED
ON THE PROPOSED TAX RA TE rNCREASE AND IN EFFECT FOR THE PERIOD BEGINNING 1
JULY 2026 AND ENDING AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH THE COUNCIL, SUBJECT TO THE
   REQUIREMENTS OF UTAH CODE ANN' §59-2-919, ADOPTS A FINAL BUDGET FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2026-2027; AND SETTING ASIDE, fN A RESTRICTED BUDGET ACCOlJNT,
                 $3.5 MILLION OF BUDGETED PROPERTY TAX REVENUE.

       WHEREAS, on 5 May 2026, the Council adopted a tentative budget pursuant to UTAH
CODE ANN. § l 0-6-111 that includes a proposed increase to the City's certified tax rate to generate
additional budgeted property tax revenue for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 of $3 .5 million; and

       "WHEREAS, on 2 June 2026, the Council held a public hearing on the tentative budget
pursuant to UTAH Com: ANN. ~ 10-6-114; and

       \YHEREAS, the Council \Vill adopt a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 after
meeting the requirements of UTAH Corn:: ANN. §59-2-919, including receiving and considering
public input on the proposed increase to the City's ce11ified tax: rate, at a duly noticed public
hearing on I l August 2026, or such other date as approved by the Salt Lake County Auditor: and

        WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) states in part:
        . . .On or before June 30, afiscal _vear taxing entity that proposes an increase to the certified
tax rate for the ensuing fiscal year shall . .. prepare and adopt an interim budget that . .. is based
on the taxing entity's proposed rax rare increase,· . . . includes a property tax impact schedule,
subject to the requirements of Subsection (8){b); and . .. is in ej/ect for the period beginning on
July I and ending after rhe date on ,1,·hich the ra:xing entity, su~ject lO the requirements ofSection
59-2-919, adopts a budget . ... ; and

         WHEREAS, UTAH CODE Ai'm. §59-2-924(8) further states in pai1 that, as the Council
adopts the Interim Budget, the Council shall:
         . .. set aside, in a restric!ed h11dget account, an amount of the taxing entity 's general fimd
revenue that is no less than the amount of additional ad valorem tax revenue that would be
generated by the taxing entity 'sproposed tax rare increase . .. [and}. . .a taxing entity .. . may not
expend or otherwise obligate the revenue that the taxing entity sets aside in a restric1ed budget
account . .. Jbr a period beginning on July I and ending after the date on which the taxing entity,
.1·u~ject to the requirements ofSection 59-2-919, adopts a budget; and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to adopt the Interim Budget, substantially in the form of
attached Appendix "A", that is based on the proposed tax rate increase and is in effect for the
period beginning l July 2026 and ending after the date on which the Council, subject to the
requirements of UTAH CODE ANN § 59-2-919, adopts a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-202 7;
and
      WHEREAS, the Interim Budget adopted by the Council includes a Propetiy Tax Impact
Schedule prepared pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §§59-2-924(8) AND 59-2-9 l 9(4); and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to set aside in a restricted budget account, as part of the
Interim Budget, S3.5 milJion of property tax revenue that would be generated by the proposed
property tax rate increase; and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to direct that the City may not expend or otherwise
obligate the revenue the Council set aside in a restricted budget account for the period beginning
on 1 July 2026, and ending after the date on which the Council, subject to the requirements of
Section 59-2-9 l 9, adopts a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        l.      The Counci I hereby adopts the Interim Budget in substantially the fonn of attached
Appendix "A" that includes the Property Tax Impact Schedule prepared pursuant to UTAH CODE
ANN. §59-2-924(8). The Interim Budget shall be based on the proposed tax rate increase and is in
effect for the period beginning on l July 2026 and ending after the date on which the Council,
suhject to the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, adopts a Final Budget for Fiscal Year
2026-2027.

        2.      The Council hereby sets aside, within the Interim Budget, $3.5 million, the amount
of additional property tax revenue generated hy the proposed increase to the City's certified tax
rate for Fiscal Year 2026-2027.

        3.     The Cmmcil directs that the City may not expend or otherwise obligate the budgeted
property tax revenue that is set aside in the restricted budget account for the period beginning on
l July 2026 and ending after the date on which the Council, subject to the requirements of UTAH
CODE ANN. §59-2-919, adopts a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027.

        4.     The Interim Budget shall be available for public inspection on the City's website
and, during normal business hours, in the office of the City Recorder at Cottonwood Heights City
Hall, 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-34, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 161h day of June 2026.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL




By:----------                                 By:-----------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                 2
                                    VOTING:

                                    Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                    Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                    Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                    Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                    Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th. day of June 2026.

RECORDED this_ day of June 2026.




                                       3
APPENDIX "A" TO RESOLUTION 2026-34

        [Attach Interim Budget]




                   4
                      ~ ~••-•LJ('    J,   '\;n


                           ottonwood Height§
                          Cit)· bm,w11 1ht r.mJmlJ




                                  7.2
                     Resolution 2026-35
By this resolution, the council adopts the Property Tax Impact
Schedule with updated information as required by Utah law for
    entities proposing an increase to the certified tax rate.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-35


          A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL (THE "C0U,VCIL ") OF THE CITY
          OF COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS (THE "CITY") ADOPTING THE PROPERTY
          TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE PREPARED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN.
         §§59-2-924(8)AND 59-2-919(4) AND INCORPORATING THE PROPERTY
          TAX IMPACT SCHEDULE lNTO THE INTERIM BUDGET AS ADOPTED BY
            THE COUNCIL PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8).

       WHEREAS, on 5 May 2026, the Council adopted a tentative budget pursuant to UTAH
CODE A"t-.""N. § I 0-6-111 that includes a proposed increase to the City's certified tax rate to generate
additional budgeted property tax revenue for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 of $3.5 million; and

       \VHEREAS, on 2 June 2026, the Council held a public hearing on the tentative budget
pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §10-6-114; and

       ·wHEREAS, the Council will adopt a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 after
meeting the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, including receiving and considering
public input on the proposed increase to the City's certified tax rate, at a duly noticed public
hearing on 11 August 2026 or such other date as approved by the Salt Lake County Auditor; and

       '-''HE.REAS, as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8), the City Budget Officer
prepared a Property Tax Impact Schedule: and

       ·wHEREAS, the Property Tax Impact Schedule prepared by the City's Budget Officer
included the requirements stated in UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8 ), and

       \\'HEREAS, the City Budget Officer presented the Property Tax Impact Schedule to the
Council on 5 May 2026 in the public meeting at which the City's tentative budget was first
presented to the Council as required by UTAII CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4); and

       \VHEREAS, the Property Tax Impact Schedule has been presented and made available to
the public at each public meeting held prior to 30 June 2026 at which the Council discussed the
City's proposed general fund budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027 and was presented as a separate
document from all other budget documents: and

      WHEREAS, the Council, in duly noticed public meetings, has had the opportunity to make
changes to the Property Tax Impact Schedule prepared and presented by the City's Budget Officer;
and

        \VHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919(4) states in part:
        . . . On or before June 30, a.fiscal year taxing entity that proposes an increase to 1he certified
tax rate fur the ensuingfiscal year shall . .. prepare and adopt an interim budget that. . . includes
a property tax impact schedule, sukject to the requirements ofSubsection (8)(b) .. . ; and

        \\'HEREAS, the Council wants to adopt the Prope11y Tax Impact Schedule in substantially
the fonn of attached Appendix "A" and incorporate the Property Tax Impact Schedule into the
Interim Budget; and,

       WHEREAS, the Property Tax Impact Schedule specifies the following as required by
UT i\H CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8):
        (A) the approxJmare dollar amount of additional ad valorem tax revenue that would he
generated hy the proposed tax rate increase;
        (B) the approximate percentage increase in tax revenue based on the proposed tax rate
increase;
        (C} the approximate percentage increase to the amot1nt of property taxes paid on an
average res;dence per year as a result of the proposed tax rate increase;
        (D) the approximate percentage increase to the amount of property taxes paid on an
average commercial property per year as a result of the proposed tax rate increase; and
... for each department ofthe taxing entity whose budget would be affected hy the proposed tax
rare increase: ... owUne the budget increase or decrease to the department as a resulr of the
proposed lax rate increase; and ... articulate the operational impact to the department {l the
taxing enti(v approves the proposed tax rate increase; and

       WHEREAS, the Council wants to request the Salt Lake County Auditor (the "County
Auditor") to include the Property Tax Impact Schedule as pa1t of the County Auditor's notice
prepared and sent pursuant to Ur AH CODE ANN. §59-2-9 l 9. I to each owner of real property in the
City on or before 22 July 2026 who is listed on the assessment roll, and the Council understands
that the City is responsible for the added costs to include the Property Tax Impact Schedule in the
County Auditor's notice;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

       I.      The Council hereby adopts the Property Tax Impact Schedule in substantially the
form of attached Appendix "A".

        2.     The Council incorporates the Propetty Tax Impact Schedule into the Interim Budget
adopted by the Council that is in effect for the period beginning on 1 July 2026 and ending after
the date on which the Council, subject to the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, adopts
the Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027.

       3.      The Council directs the City Manager to request the County Auditor to include the
Property Tax Impact Schedule as part of the County Auditor's notice prepared and sent pursuant
to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919.l to each owner of real property in the City on or before 22 July
2026 who is listed on the assessment roll and acknowledges that the City is responsible for the
added costs to include the Property Tax Impact Schedule in the County Auditor's notice.

       4.      The Prope1fy Tax Impact Schedule shall be available for public inspection on the
City's website and, during normal business hours, in the office of the City Recorder, Cottonwood
Heights City Hall, 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-35, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

                                                 2
    PASSED AND APPROVED this l61h day of June 2026.


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                          By:----------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16 th day of June 2026.

     RECORDED this ~ day of June 2026.




                                            3
APPENDIX "A" TO RESOLUTION 2026-35


  [Attach Property Tax Impact Schedule]




                    4
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City lwu«m tf,r c,mp mr




                                   7.3
                      Resolution 2026-36
  By this resolution, the council adopts a proposed tax levy and
rate as required before 22 June 2026, subject to further action as
required by State law including a truth-in-taxation hearing on 11
    August 2026 or such date as determined by the Salt Lake
                          County Auditor.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-36

         A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL (THE "COUNCIL") OF THE CITY
    OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (THE "CITY") ADOPTING A PROPOSED TAX LEVY
     AND RA.TE PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912, ON REAL PROPERTY
      \\'lTHINTHE CITY MADE TAXABLE BY LAW FOR FISCAL YEAR2026-2027,
    SUBJECT TO FURTHER ACTION AS REQUIRED BY UTAH CODE ANN.§§59-2-919
    AND 59-2-924 AND DIRECTING THE CITY MANAGER OR DESIGNEE TO REPORT
     THE PROPOSED TAX LEVY AND RA.TE TO THE SALT LAKE COUNTY AUDITOR
           AND THE UT AH STATE TAX COMMISSION BEFORE 22 JUNE 2026.

       WHEREAS, on 5 May 2026 the Council adopted a tentative budget pursuant to UTAH
CODE ANN. § 10-6-111 that includes a proposed increase in budgeted property tax revenue for
Fiscal Year 2026-2027 of $3 .5 million; and

      WHEREAS, on 2 June 2026 the Council held a public heaiing on the tentative budget
pursuant to UTAH Cool::: ANN. § 10-6-114; and

        \VHEREAS, the Council will adopt a Final Tax Levy and Rate for Fiscal Year 2026-2027
after meeting the requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, including receiving and
considering public input on the proposed increase to the City's certified tax rate, at a duly noticed
public hearing on l l Au!:,rttst 2026 or such other date as approved by the Salt Lake County Auditor;
and

         \VHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912 states inpa1i:
        . . .the governing body of each taxing entity shall before June 22 of each year . . adopt a
proposed tax rate, or, if the tax rate is no! more than the cer1(/1ed tax rate, a.final tax rate for the
taxing entity; and . .. reporl the rate and levy, and submit the statement required under Section
59-1-913 and any other information prescribed by rules of the commission jor the preparation,
review, and certification qf the tax rate, to the county auditor of the county in which the taxing
entity is located; and

        \VHEREAS, the Council wants to adopt a proposed tax levy and rate for fiscal year 2026-
2027 based on an increase in budgeted property tax revem,e of S3.5 million pursuant to UTAH
CODE Al'·iN. §59-2-912, understanding that adopting a final tax levy and rate is subject to further
action under UTAH CODE ANN.§§ 59-2-919 and 59-2-924; and

       \VHEREAS, the Council wants to direct the City Manager or designee to report the
proposed tax levy and rate to the Salt Lake County Auditor and Utah State Tax Commission before
22 June 2026 as required by UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912; and

       "'HEREAS, the Council wants to direct the City Finance Director or designee to input the
proposed tax levy and rate into the Utah State Tax Commission Certified Tax Rate System (Tax
Rate Summary 693) before 22 June 2026;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        l.      The Council hereby adopts a proposed tax Ie-vy and rate of _ _ _ _ on each
dollar of taxable valuation on real property within the city of Cottonwood Heights made taxable
by law for fi scal year 2026-2027. The proposed tax levy and rate of _ _ _ _ shall be credited
as revenue in the general fund generating an additional $3 .5 million of ongoing property tax
revenue for fis cal year 2026-2027. The adoption of a final tax levy and rate for fiscal year 2026-
2027 is subject to further action under UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 59-2-919 and S9-2-924 including
holding a duly noticed truth-in-taxation hearing on 11 August 2026 or such other date as
detennined by the Salt Lake County Auditor.

        2.    The Council expressly reserves the power and right to amend the proposed tax levy
and rate made herein as it may deemjust, proper and appropriate under Utah law.

       3.     The Council directs the City Manager, or designee, to report the proposed tax levy
and rate adopted by the Council to the Salt Lake County Auditor and the Utah State Tax
Commission before 22 June 2026.

       4.       The Council directs the City Finance Director or designee to input the proposed tax
levy and rate into the Utah State Tax Commission Certified Tax Rate System (Tax Rate Summary
693) before 22 June 2026.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-36, shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16th day of June 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - - -- -- - - --                     By:
                                                   - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- -
    Ti ffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                             VOTING:

                                             Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                             Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                             Suzanne Hyland                 Yea _ Nay_
                                             Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay _
                                             Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay _

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of June 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of June 2026.



                                                 2
                                   ( I
                                         ;:-...
                                            I'\


                         Cottonwood Heights
                         Ciry hrru"m rhr c,m)l'IIU




                                 7.4
                     Resolution 2026-37
    By this resolution, the council will approve and ratify a
  $259,786.50 bid and award a construction contract to Stapp
 Construction, Inc. for the work and materials to complete the
city's project no. 25.009-Staker Way Drainage Improvements
   and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements
                             Project.
                                   COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-37

          A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING A BID AND AWARDING A
              CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO STAPP CONSTRUCTION, INC.
             (STAKER WAY DRAINAGE IMPROVENIBNTS AND 2700 EAST &
                DE VILLE DRIVE ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT)

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
met on 16 June 2026 to consider, among other things, (a) approving and ratifying the City's
acceptance of a $259,786.50 bid from Stapp Construction, Inc. ("Contractor") for construction work
involving the Staker Way Drainage Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway
Improvements underthe City's project no. 25.009 (the "Project"); and (b) authorizing the City's entry
into an agreement for such construction services (the "Agreement") with Contractor on such tem1s
and conditions as may be approved by the City's mayor and manager in consultation with the City's
director of public works, the City engineer and the City attorney, a draft copy of which is annexed as
an exhibit hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and ratify the City's
acceptance of Contractor's bid for the Project and to authorize the City's entry into the Agreement
with Contractor as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights that
the Council hereby (a) approves and ratifies the City's acceptance of Contractor's bid for the Project,
and (b) authorizes the City's entry into the Agreement with Contractor on such terms and conditions
as may be approved by the City's mayor and manager in consultation with the City's director of public
works, the City engineer and the City attorney.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-37, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASS ED AND APPROVED this 16 th day of June 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                               By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Binell                   Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th. day of June 2026.

        RECORDED this_ day of June 2026.
                          CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT

THIS CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT (this "Agreement") is made effective 16 June 2026
between the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is 2077
East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("Owner"), and STAPP
CONSTRUCTION, INC., a Utah corporation whose address is 445 North 700 West, Suite 110,
North Salt Lake, UT 84054 ("Contractor")_

Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE 1-\VORK

1.01 Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents.
The Work is generally described as follows:

        Work for roadway projects consisting of the following items ofwork: mobili=ation;
        tra{fic control; removal of asphalt and concrete; installation of new storm drain
       facilities; installation qf curb and gutter, waterway, drivl,.,vay, ADA ramps.
       sidewalks; relocation ~/trees; placing and compacting new asphalt swface course;
        and all appurtenant ·work; all in accordance with Drawings and Specifications
       prepared by the F.ngineer.

ARTICLE 2 - THE PROJECT

2.01 The Project for which the Work under the Contract Documents may be the whole or only
a part is generally described as follows: 25.009-Staker \Vay Drainage Improvements and
2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements.

ARTICLE 3 - ENGINEER

3.01 The Project has been designed by (or under supervision ot) a staff or contract engineer of
Owner ("Engineer''), which is to act as Owner's representative, assume all duties and
responsibilities, and have the rights and authority assigned to Engineer in the Contract
Documents in connection with the completion of the Work in accordance with the Contract
Documents.

ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES

4.01   Time ofthe Essence

All time limits for Milestones, if any, Substantial Completion, and completion and readiness for
final payment as stated in the Contract Documents are of the essence of the Contract.

4.02   Dates for Substantial Completion

The Contractor will commence the work required by the Contract Documents within ten (10)
calendar days after the date of the Notice to Proceed; and will complete the same within sixty (60)
calendar days after the date of the Notice to Proceed; unless the period for completion is extended
otherwise by the Contract Documents. Work shall be completed no later than I October 2026.

4.03   Liquidated Damages
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence as stated in Paragraph 4.01 above and
that O,wner \\~ll suffer financial loss if the Work is not completed within the times specified in
Paragraph 4.02 and 4.03 above, plus any extensions thereof allowed in accordance with Aiticle 11
of the General Conditions. The parties also recognize the delays, expense, and difficulties in valved
in proving in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered by Owner if the Work is not
completed on time. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such proof, Owner and Contractor agree
that as liquidated damages for delay (but not as a penalty), Contractor shall pay Owner $500.00 for
each day that expires after the time specified in Paragraph 4.02 above for Substantial Completion
until the Work is substantially complete After Substantial Completion, if Contractor shall neglect,
refuse, or fail to complete the remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension
thereof granted by Owner, Contractor shall pay O\vner $500.00 for each day that expires after the
time specified in Paragraph 4.02 or 4.03 above for completion and readiness for final payment until
the Work is completed and ready for final payment.

ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE

5.01 Owner shall pay Contractor for completion of the Work in accordance with the Contract
Documents an amount in current funds equal to the sum of the amounts determined pursuant to
Paragraph 5.01.A below:

A     For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor's Bid dated 2 I May 2026, a copy of which
may be attached hereto as an exhibit.

ARTICLE 6- PAYMENT PROCEDURES

6.01   Submillal and Processing ofPayments

       A Contractor shall submit Applications for Payment in accordance with Article 15 of the
General Conditions. Applications for Payment will be processed by Engineer as provided in the
General Conditions.

6.02   Progress Payments; Retainage

       A. Owner shall make progress payments on account of the Contract Price on the basis of
Contractor's Applications for Payment on or about the pt day of each month during performance
of the Work as provided in Paragraph 6.02.A. l below. All such payments will be measured hy the
schedule of values established as provided in Paragraph 2.03.A of the General Conditions (and in
the case of Unit Price Work based on the number of units completed) or, in the event there is no
schedule of values, as provided in the General Requirements.

               1.      P1ior to Substantial Completion, progress payments will be made in an
amount equal to the percentage indicated below but, in each case, less the aggregate of payments
previously made and less such amounts as Engineer may determine or Owner may withhold,
including but not limited to liquidated damages, in accordance with Paragraph 15.0 I of the General
Conditions.

                        a.     Ninety-five percent (95%) of Work completed (with the balance
being retainage). If the Work has been fifty percent (50%) completed as determined by Engineer,
and if the character and progress of the Work have been satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, then
as long as the character and progress of the Work remain satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, there
                                                      2
will be no additional retainage; and

                      b.      Ninety-five percent (95%) of cost of materials and equipment not
incorporated in the Work (with the balance being retainage).

        B. Upon Substantial Completion, Owner shall pay an amount sufficient to increase total
payments to Contractor to ninety-seven and one-half percent (97.5%) of the Work completed, less
such amounts as Engineer shall determine in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the General
Conditions and less one hLmdred percent (100%) of Engineer's estimate of the value of Work to be
completed or corrected as shov..'Il on the tentative list of items to be completed or corrected attached
to the certificate of Substantial Completion.

6.03   Final Payment

       A. Upon final completion and acceptance of the Work in accordance with Paragraph 15.05
of the General Conditions, Owner shall pay the remainder of the Contract Price as recommended
by Engineer as provided in said Paragraph 15 .06.

ARTICLE 7 - INTEREST

7.0 I All moneys not paid when due as provided in Article 15 of the General Conditions shall
bear interest at the rate of 0% per annum.

ARTICLE 8 -CONTRACTOR'S REPRESENTATIONS

8.01 Tn order to induce Owner to enter into this Agreement, Contractor makes the following
representations:

        A. Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents and the other
related data identified in the Bidding Docmnents.

        B. Contractor has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the
general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

       C. Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all federal, state, and local Laws and
Regulations that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

        D, Contractor has carefully studied all: (1) reports of explorations and tests of subsmface
conditions at or contiguous to the Site and all drawings of physical conditions relating to existing
surface or subsurface structures at the Site (except Underground Facilities), if any and (2) reports
and drawings of Hazardous Environmental Conditions, if any.

         E. Contractor bas considered the infonnation known to Contractor; information connnonly
kno\J,ll to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information and observations
obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-related reports and drawings
identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the effect of such infonnation, observations,
and documents on (l) the cost, progress, and perfomunce of the Work; (2) the means, methods,
teclmiques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be employed by Contractor, including
any specific means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of consh11ction expressly
required by the Contract Docwnents; and (3) Contractor's safety precautions and programs.

                                                       3
        F. Based on the infonnation and observations referred to in Paragraph 8.0 l.E above,
Contractor does not consider that further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, studies,
or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, within the Contract
Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the Contract Doctunents.

        G. Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.

        H. Contractor has given Engineer written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Docmnents, and the written resolution
thereof by Engineer is acceptable to Contractor.

         I. The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding
of all tenns and conditions for perfonnance and famishing of the Work.

ARTICLE 9 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS

9.01   Contents

       A. The Contract Documents consist of the following:
               1.      This Agreement (pages l to 6, inclusive).

               2.      Performance bond (pages l to 3, inclusive).

               3.      Payment bond (pages l to 3, inclusive).

               4.      General Conditions (pages I to 72, inclusive).

               5.      Supplementary Conditions (pages l to 12, inclusive).

                6.      Specifications as listed in the table of contents of the Project Manual. All
work on this project shall conform to 2025 APW A Standards and Specifications or as listed in
these project specifications. If there is a conflict, the more stringent standard will apply.

             7.      Drawings with each sheet bearing the following general title: #25.009 -
Staker Way Drainage Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements.

               8.      Addenda (numbers Oto 0 inclusive).

               9.      Exhibits to this Agreement (enwnerated as follows):

                       a.      Contractor's Bid

                       b.      Documentation submitted by Contractor prior to Notice of Award.

               10.   TI1e following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective
Date of the Agreement and are not attached hereto:

                       a.      Notice to Proceed.


                                                      4
                       b.      Work Change Directives.

                       c.      Change Orders.

       B. The documents listed in Paragraph 9. 0 LA are attached to th is Agreement (ex.cept as
expressly noted otherwise above).

        C. There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above in this Article 9.

       D. The Contract Documents may only be amended, modified, or supplemented as
provided in Paragraph 3.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE 10 - MISCELLANEOUS

10.01   Terms

        A. Tenns used in this Agreement will have the meanings stated in the General Conditions
and the Supplementary Conditions.

10.02 Assignment of Contract

        A No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or interests in the Contract will be
binding on another party hereto without the written consent of the party sought to be bound; and,
specifically but without limitation, moneys that may become due and moneys that are due may not
be assigned without such consent (except to the extent that the effect of this restriction may be
limited by law), and unless specifically stated to the contra1y in any written consent to an
assigrm1ent, no assignment will release or discharge the assignor from any duty or responsibility
under the Contract Documents.

10.03 Successors and Assigns

        A. Owner and Contractor each binds itself, its partners, successors, assigns, and legal
representatives to the other party hereto, its partners, successors, assigns, and legal representatives
in respect to all covenants, agreements, and obligations contained in the Contract Documents.

l 0.04 Severability

        A. Any provision or part of the Contract Documents held to be void or unenforceable
under any Law or Regulation shall be deemed stricken, and all remaining provisions shall continue
to be valid and binding upon Owner and Contractor, who agree that the Contract Documents shall
be reformed to replace such stricken provision or part thereof with a valid and enforceable
provision that comes as close as possible to expressing the intention of the stricken provision.

10.05 Contractor's Cerf{fications

        A. Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in com1pt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. For the purposes of this Paragraph 10.05:

               l.      "Corrupt practice" means the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of
any thing of value likely to influence the action of a public official in the bidding process or in the
Contract execution;
                                                       5
                 2.     "Fraudulent practice" means an intentional misrepresentation of facts made
(a) to influence the bidding process or the execution of the Contract to the detriment of Owner, (b)
to establish Bid or Contract prices at artificial non-competitive levels, or (c) to deprive Owner of
the benefits of free and open competition;

                 3.     "Collusive practice" means a scheme or arrangement between two or more
Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a purpose of v,foch is to establish Bid prices at
a11ificia\, non-competitive levels; and

                4.      "Coerdve practice" means harming or threatening to harm, directly or
indirectly, persons or their property to influence their participation in the bidding process or affect
the execution of the Contract.

IN WITNESS \VHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Agreement. Counterparts
have been delivered to Owner and Contractor, All portions of the Contract Documents have been
signed or have been identified by Owner and Contractor or on their behalf.


                                                       OWNER:

                                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS,
ATTEST:                                                a Utah municipality


By:-------------                                       B y : - - - - -- -- - - - - - -
 TilTany Janzen, Recorder                                Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor



                                                       CONTRACTOR:

                                                       STAPP CONSTRUCTION, INC.


                                                       By:
                                                             --------------
                                                       Print Name:
                                                                     -----------
                                                       Title:
                                                                -------------



*Attach evidence of authority to sign




                                                       6
                      ,_._...-r-,-"'-1 .~
                                        ( IJ,1 •

                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Cily btti. 'IW/ /II(' (1111)01/5




                                      7.5
                     Resolution 2026-38
      By this resolution, the council will approve and ratify a
 $298,166.55 bid and award a construction contract to Acme
Construction, Inc. for the work and 1naterials to complete the
city's project no. 006.26-3000 East & BCC Trail Crosswalk
                            Project.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-38

          A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING A BID AND AWARDING A
              CONSTRUCTION CONTRA.CT TO ACME CONSTRUCTION, INC.
                  (3000 EAST & BCC TRAIL CROSSWALK PROJECT)

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
met on 16 June 2026 to consider, smong other things, (a) approving and ratifying the City's
acceptance of a $298,166.55 hid from Acme Construction, Inc. ("Contractor") for construction work
involving the 3000 East & BCC Trail Crosswalk under the City's project no. 006.26 (the "Project");
and (b) authorizing the City's entry into an agreement for such construction services (the
·'Agreement") with Contractor ou such tenns and conditions as may be approved by the City's mayor
and manager in consultstion with the City's director of public works, the City engineer and the City
attorney, a draft copy of which is annexed as an exhibit hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and ratify the City's
acceptance of Contractor's bid for the Project and to authorize the City's entry into the Agreement
with Contractor as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights that
the Council hereby (a) approves and ratifies the City's acceptance of Contractor's bid for the Project,
and (b) authorizes the City's entry into the Agreement with Contractor on such terms and conditions
as may be approved by the City's mayor and mansger in consultation with the City's directorof public
works, the City engineer and the City attorney.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-38, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16 th day of June 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: - - - - - - - - - - - -                   By:
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16 th day of June 2026.

        RECORDED this_ day of June 2026.
                          CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT

THIS CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT (this ''Agreement") is made effective 16 June 2026
between the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is 2077
East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("Owner"), and Acme Construction, Inc,, a
Utah corporation whose address is 170 South 1200 West, North Salt Lake, UT 84054
("Contractor").

Ov.ner and Contractor hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE 1- \VORK

l.0 l Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents.
The Work is generally described as follows:

        Afobili=ation, trajfic control, and maintenance of traffic; pavement cutting and
        removal of asphalt pavement; placing of untreated base course and hot mix
        asphalt; acfjusting utiliry lids to grade; repairing or reconstructing pedestrian
        access ramps as specified," reconstruchng curb and gwter and sidewalk where
        agreetl upon with engineer; establishing pavement marking paint and MMA as
        specified in plan; and all appurtenant work to the Project.

ARTICLE 2 - THE PROJECT

2.01 The Project for which the Work under the Contract Documents may be the whole or only
a part is generally described as follows: 006.26- 3000 East & BCC Trail Crossw11lk Project.

ARTICLE 3 - ENGINEER

3.01 The Project has been designed by (or under supervision of) a staff or contract engineer of
Owner ("Engineer"), which is to act as Owner's representative, assume all duties and
responsibilities, and have the rights and authority assigned to Engineer in the Contract
Documents in connection with the completion of the Work in accordance with the Contract
Documents.

ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES

4.0 l   Time of 1he Essence

All time limits for Milestones, if any, Substantial Completion, and completion and readiness for
final payment as stated in the Contract Documents are of the essence of the Contract.

4.02    Dates for Substantial Completion

The Contractor will commence the work required by the Contract Documents within ten (10)
calendar days after the date of the Notice to Proceed; and will complete the same within sixty (60)
calendar days after the date of the Notice to Proceed; unless the period for completion is extended
othe1wise by the Contract Documents.

4.03    Liquidated Damages

Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence as stated in Paragraph 4.0 l above and
that Owner will suffer financial loss if the Work is not completed within the times specified in
Paragraph 4.02 and 4.03 above, plus any extensions thereof allowed in accordance with A11icle 11
of the General Conditions. The parties also recognize the delays, expense, and difficulties involved
in proving in a legal or arbitration proceeding the actual loss suffered by Owner if the Work is not
completed on time. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such proof, Owner and Contractor agree
that as liquidated damages for delay (but not as a penalty), Contractor shall pay OVv'Der $500.00 for
each day that expires after the time specified in Paragraph 4.02 above for Substantial Completion
until the Work is substantially complete After Substantial Completion, if Contractor shall neglect,
refuse, or fail to complete the remaining Work within the Contract Time or any proper extension
thereof granted by Owner, Contractor shall pay Owner $500.00 for each day that expires after the
time specified in Paragraph 4.02 or 4.03 above for completion and readiness for final payment until
the Work is completed and ready for final payment.

ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE

5.01 Owner shall pay Contractor for completion of the Work in accordance with the Contract
Documents an amount in current funds equal to the sum of the amounts detennined pursuant to
Paragraph 5.0 I .A below:

A.    For all Work, at the prices stated in Contractor's Bid dated 28 May 2026, a copy of which
may be attached hereto as an exhibit.

ARTICLE 6-PAYMENT PROCEDURES

6.0 I   Submittal and Processing ofPayments

       A. Contractor shall submit Applications for Payment in accordance with Article 15 of the
General Conditions. Applications for Payment will be processed by Engineer as provided in the
General Conditions.

6.02    Progress PaymenM; Retainage

       A. Owner shall make progress payments on accow1t of the Contract Price on the basis of
Contractor's Applications for Payment on or about the !51 day of each month during performance
of the Work as provided in Paragraph 6.02.A.l below. A!l such payments will be measured by the
schedule of values established as provided in Paragraph 2.03.A of the General Conditions (and in
the case of Unit Price Work based on the number of units completed) or, in the event there is no
schedule of values, as provided in the General Requirements.

               l.       Prior to Substantial Completion, progress payments will be made in an
amount equal to the percentage indicated below but, in each case, less the aggregate of payments
previously made and less such amounts as Engineer may determine or Owner may withhold,
including hut not limited to liquidated damages, in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the General
Conditions.

                        a.     Ninety percent (90%) of Work completed (with the balance being
retain.age). If the Work has been fifty percent (50%) completed as determined by Engineer, and if
the character and progress of the Work have been satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, then as long
as the character and progress of the Work remain satisfactory to Owner and Engineer, there will be
no additional retainage: and
                                                      2
                      b.      Ninety-five percent (95%) of cost of materials and equipment not
incorporated in the Work (with the balance being retainage).

        B. Upon Substantial Completion, Owner shall pay an amount sufficient to increase total
payments to Comractor to ninety-seven and one-half percent (97.5%) of the Work completed, less
such amounts as Engineer shall detennine in accordance with Paragraph 15.01 of the General
Conditions and less one hundred percent (100%) of Engineer's estimate of the value of Work to be
completed or corrected as shown on the tentative list of items to be completed or corrected attached
to the certificate of Substantial Completion.

6.03   Final Payment

        A. Upon final comp letion and acceptance of the Work in accordance with Paragraph 15.05
of the General Conditions, Owner shall pay the remainder of the Contract Price as recommended
by Engineer as provided in said Paragrapl1 15.06.

ARTICLE 7 - INTEREST

7.01 All moneys not paid when due as provided 111 Article 15 of the General Conditions shall
bear interest at the rate of 0% per annum.

ARTICLE 8- CONTRACTOR'S REPRESENTATIONS

8.01 In order to induce Owner to enter into this Agreement, Contractor makes the following
representations:

        A Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents and the other
related data identified in the Bidding Docwnents.

        B. Contractor has visited the Site and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the
general, local, and Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

       C. Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all federal, state, and local Laws and
Regulations that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work.

       D. Contractor has carefully studied all: (l) reports of explorations and tests of subsurface
conditions at or contiguous to the Site and all drawings of physical conditions relating to existing
surface or subsurface structures at the Site (except Underground Facilities), if any and (2) repol1s
and drawings of Hazardous Environmental Conditions, if any.

        E. Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor; info1mation commonly
known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information and obsetvations
obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-related reports and drawings
identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the effect of such information, observations,
and documents on (1) the cost, progress, and performance of the Work; {2) the means, methods,
techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be employed by Contractor, including
any specific means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of constrnction expressly
required by the Contract Documents; and (3) Contractor's safety precautions and programs.

        F. Based on the inforn1ation and observations referred to in Paragraph 8.0 l .E above,

                                                     3
Contractor does not consider that further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, studies,
or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, within the Contract
Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the Contract Documents.

        G. Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others
at the Site that relate-s to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents.

        H. Contractor has given Engineer written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the written resolution
thereof by Engineer is acceptable to Contractor.

         I. The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding
of all tenns and conditions for perfonnance and furnishing of the Work.

ARTICLE 9 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS

9.01   Contents

       A. The Contract Documents consist of the following:

               1.      This Agreement (pages 1 to 6, inclusive).

               2.      Performance bond (pages 1 to 3, inclusive).

               3.      Payment bond (pages I to 3, inclusive).

               4.      General Conditions (pages I to 62, inclusive).

               5.      Supplementary Conditions (pages l to 11. inclusive).

                6.      Specifications as Listed in the table of contents of the Project Manual. All
work on this project shall conform to 2026 APWA Standards and Specifications or as listed in
these project specifications. If there is a conflict, the more stringent standard will apply.

             7.      Drawings with each sheet bearing the following general title: #006.26-3000
East & BCC Trail Crosswalk Project.

               8.      Addenda (numbers Oto O inclusive).

               9.      Exhibits to this Agreement (enumerated as follows):

                       a.      Contrnctor's Bid

                       b.      Documentation submitted by Contractor prior to Notice of Award.

               10.   The following which may be delivered or issued on or afier the Effective
Date of the Agreement and are not attached hereto:

                       a.      Notice to Proceed.

                       b.      Work Change Directives.

                                                      4
                       c.      Change Orders.

       B. The documents listed in Paragraph 9.01.A are attached to this Agreement (except as
expressly noted otherwise above).

       C. There are no Contract Documents other than those listed above in this Article 9.

       D. The Contract Documents may only be amended, modified, or supplemented as
provided in Paragraph 3.04 of the General Conditions.

ARTICLE 10 - MISCELLANEOUS

I0.01 Terms

        A. Tenns used in this Agreement will have the meanings stated in the General Conditions
and the Supplementary Conditions.

I 0.02 Assignment o_fContract

        A. No assignment by a party hereto of any rights under or interests in the Contract will be
binding on another party hereto without the written consent of the party sought to be bound; and,
specifically but without limitation, moneys that may become due and moneys that are due may not
be assigned without such consent (except to the extent that the effect of this restriction may be
limited by law), and unless specifically stated to the contrary in any written consent to an
assignment, no assignment will release or discharge the assignor from any duty or responsibility
under the Contract Documents.

10.03 Successors and Assigns

        A. Owner and Contractor each binds itself, its partners, successors, assigns, and legal
representatives to the other party hereto, its partners, successors, assigns, and legal representatives
in respect to all covenants, agreements, and obligations contained in the Contract Documents.

10.04 Severability

        A. Any provision or part of the Contract Documents held to be void or unenforceable
under any Law or Regulation shall be deemed stricken, and all remaining provisions shall continue
to be valid and binding upon Owner and Contractor, who agree that the Contract Documents shall
be reformed to replace such stricken provision or part thereof with a valid and enforceable
provision that comes as close as possible to expressing the intention of the stricken provision.

I 0.05 Contractor's Certifications

        A. Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in com1pt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. For the purposes of this Paragraph 10.05:

               1.      "Corrupt practir.:e" means the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of
any thing of value likely to influence the action of a public official in the bidding process or in the
Contract execution;

                2.     "Fraudulent practice" means an intentional misrepresentation of facts made
                                                       5
(a) to influence the bidding process or the execution of the Contract to the detriment of Owner, (b)
to establish Bid or Contract prices at artificial non-competitive levels, or (c) to deprive Owner of
the benefits of free and open competition;

                 3.     "Collusive pract;ce" means a scheme or arrangement bern een tv-m or more
                                                                                    1


Bidders, with or without the knowledge of Owner, a purpose of which is to establish Bid prices at
artificial, non-competitive levels; and

                4.      "Coercive practice" means hanning or threatening to harm, directly or
indirectly, persons or their property to influence their participation in the bidding process or affect
the execution of the Contract.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Agreement. Counterparts
have been delivered to Owner a11d Contractor. All portions of the Contract Documents have been
signed or have been identified by Owner and Contractor or on their behalf


                                                       O\VNER:

                                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS,
ATTEST:                                                a Utah municipality


                                                       By:
By:-------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
                                                             - -------------
                                                             Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor



                                                       CONTRACTOR:

                                                       ACME CONTRUCTION, INC.



                                                       By:--------------

                                                       Print Name: - - - - - - - - - - -

                                                       Title: - - - - - - - - - - - - -




"'Attach evidence of authority to sign




                                                       6
                                         ✓,,

                                      r'/fi~\ .
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          (.i"q l,rtt,-<m tht r,n~)"lll




                     Resolution 2026-39
By this resolution the council will approve an amendment to the
 referenced 2020 agreement concerning consulting services for
     an update of the city's general plan being perfonned by
Landmark Design. The purpose of the amendment is to modify
   the scope of work anticipated to be needed to complete the
                   subject general plan update.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-39


A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN Ar-.iENDMENT TO A TRANSPORTATlON AND LAND USE
     CONNECTION AGREEMENT THROUGH WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in re6-rular session on 16 June 2026 to consider, among other things, approving an
amendment (the "Amendment") to a "Transportation and Land Use Connection Agreement" dated
effective 13 October 2020 (the "Agreement" ) among the City, Wasatch Front Regional Council
and Landmark Design ("Provider") whereunder Provider would provide, among other things,
consulting services in connection with an update of the City's general plan as specified in the
Agreement; and

        WHEREAS , the Council has reviewed the form of the Amendment, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto ; and

        WHEREAS , after careful consideration, the Council has dete1mined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to approve the City's entry into
the Amendment as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Amendment is hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and recorder are authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Amendment on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution , assigned no. 2026-39, shall take effect immediately upon passage .

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 16 June 2026.

ATTEST.                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - --    -------                       By: - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    Tiffany ,Janzen , Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              J. Scott Bracken               Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16 th day of June 2026.

        RECORDED this_ day of June 2026.
                                                              ,_,

                                       ~e~~             /~~~~
                       WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL
May 21, 2026

Sam Taylor
Landmark Design
850 S 400 W
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101

RE: Contract Amendment for Cottonwood Height General Plan, under contrnct Agreement for Professional Services,
effecti-ve date I0/13/20202

Dear Mr. Taylor:

This letter is to amend the existing contract between Landmark Design and the Wasatch Front Regional Council to
complete a General Plan Update in the City of Cottonwood Heights.

In order to complete the scope of work within the Contract, the contract date \viii be extended through l0/31/2026,
extending past the previously extended expiration date of 7/31/2025.

The scope in the attached contract is being modified to include revisions to the final document, one more round of public
engagement, and adoption facilitation. The detailed scope of work is attached.

In order to complete the scope of work .,vi.thin the Contract AND MODIFIED HEREIN, the fixed budget of$193,860 will
be increased by $34,625 for a project total of$228,485. There is a remaining $3,036 in the current budget, Cottonwood
Heights will contribute an additional $18,275 and the remaining $13,314 to be paid through the TLC program.

With all of the terms of the above referenced Agreement still in effect, this amendment shall be effective immediately. The
\\TFRC shall have the option to extend this contract, if necessary, to accomplish additional tasks as negotiated.

Sincerely,



Ted Knowlton
Deputy Director

Attachments:
l. Original Contrnct dated 10/13/2020 (includes Attachment B. Scope of Work)
2. First Contract/Scope Modification dated August 2022
3. Second Contract/Scope Modification dated October 2025
4. Cunent Contract Modification Scope of Work dated May l l, 2026

The undersigned agrees to the terms of this contract extension.




Sam Taylor             Date                                         Mayor Bennion                        Date
Landmark Design                                                     Cottonwood Heights
11 May 2026

Jim Spung                              Christy Dahlberg
CED Director                           Community Development Planner
Cottonwood Heights City                Wasatch Front Regional Council
i"-pung@ch.utah.gov                    christy d ahlberg«xwf:·cutah.gov
                                                                                      Landmark Design
                                                                                LA\JD ZCAPE f-RCH!TECTURE & PcANNING
RE: PROPOSAL FOR CONTRACT AMENDMENT
                                                                                        A ~ piJce Solilr G a;de:'1.s
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
                                                                                   ~50 $('1uth 400 \,~1\:st I 3t~dic l Q.il
                                                                                      Sal, Lake City, U t"'h 841C 1

Dear Jim and Christy,                                                                         . c, .47& 3300
                                                                                             www.ldi•ut.c,)rn


Thank you for our continued work together on the Cottonwood Heights General Plan. Per your
request, I have prepared a revised Contract Amendment proposal that addresses the work
anticipated to complete the update of the general plan.

Scope of Work
TASK 1: Subcommittee Deliverables & Public Engagement
   A. Synthesize goals and develop draft outline. Landmark has reviewed the goa Is and mission
       statements provided by the City Council and Planning Commission, comparing them
       against the current dra Ft of the general plan. It is estimated that approximately 35-40% of
       the current draft plan content remains relevant. Additionally, work needs to be done to
       remove redundancy and streamline the organization of the goals.
            i.  Landmark will work with Staff to develop a new outline for the general plan,
                incorporating the new goals. We will also refine any accompanying maps or other
                exhibits to supplement the draft outline and convey its intent, such as the future
                land use map.
           iL   Staff will review the plan outline with City Council and Planning Commission for
                approval prior to next steps. Any feedback received will be incorporated into the
                outline prior to the preparation of public engagement materials or draft plan writing.
   B. Public Engagement. The public engagement stage will present the revised outline, goals,
        and vision for the plan to the public for review and comment.
            i.  Online Storymap & Questionnaire. An on line webpage (StoryMap) will summarize
                and present the core ideas of the draft plan outline in a simple and graphic format,
                accompanied by a brief questionnaire for feedback.
           ii.  In-Person Open House. An in-person open house will be held at City Hall, either
                independently or tied to a City event, to collect feedback on the draft.
                       a. Landmark will prepare boards for the open house, outlining the prior
                            planning process, mission, goals, maps, and other key ideas for each
                            element of the plan.
                       b. It is anticipated that planning commissioners and council members will
                            attend the open house, engaging with residents on subcommittee topics.
                       c. Attendees will be directed to the online questionnaire and/or have paper
                            copy available.
          iii.  Marketing Materials. Landmark will provide digital nyers to be used to promote the
                online engagement through the City's website, social media, mailers, etc.,


                                                                                                            page
                                                                                                               1
TASK 2: Draft Plan Revisions
   A. Revised Draft Plan Outline. Landmark will share the results of the questionnaire and open
       house with City staff. who will decide if any goals/policies are to be amended. Landmark
       will revise the draft outline as appropriate and the revised outline will be returned to Staff
       for leadership approval before commencing on the draft plan.
   B. Draft Plan -Administrative Draft. Landmark will revise the draft plan to align with new plan
       outline. rewriting most narratives and providing additional detailed explanations for key
       concepts to support and be aligned with the mission statements and goals. It is anticipated
      that the Housing element will remain unchanged. the Water element will mostly remain the
       same, and that the Sustainability element will be eliminated as a standalone element, being
       incorporated into other chapters.
           i.   Landmark will deliver the Administrative Draft as a working Word copy, with text
                and key rigures/maps.
          ii.   City staff will work with leadership to refine and revise the draft as necessary to
                solidify its content before returning the copy to Landmark for layout.
   C. Draft Plan - Layout Draft. After receiving the revised text of the Administrative Draft from
       City staff, Landmark will implement the changes within the Layout Draft. preparing the plan
       for public review. This draft will utilize the previous graphic layout of the 2025 draft, but will
       include the updated text and revised maps and exhibits as a document that is graphically
       rich and well organized. Key city master plans wm be included as an appendix to the plan.

TASK 3: Adoption Process
   A. Final Plan Revisions. After submitting the Layout Draft. it is assumed that the draft will be
       delivered from City staff to leadership for final review and comment. Based on the
       feedback received from leadership, which at this stage is assumed to be minor, Landmark
       will make final revisions to the plan prior to adoption.
   B. Adoption Hearings. Landmark will present the Flnal Draft General Plan to the Planning
       Commission and City Council at one meeting each for approval/adoption.
   C. Final Deliverables. Incorporating any final edits from the adoption hearings, Landmark will
       deliver the final plan (PDF) and all working files to the City and WFRC for project closeout.

Schedule
The schedule to complete the scope as outlined, with a target date by end of year, is illustrated
below. This schedule assumes regular coordination with Staff and the timely review of documents.

                                                                                                  2026
 TASK                                                                        JIJ~;   JUL   A'JG                              _o_v
                                                                                                                   o_c r_ .._N
                                                                                                            P _ _.._
                                                                                                         s_E_                       l. 'Df<:
 Sta.r.l-~2v...ew and Progress Mee-tm~-r,s 10,-itmei
 TASK 1: Subcommitee Delivemb---;;;j Public FnJcJgeme7ii -
 A. Symh<esize goals a~d d<evelop drnft plan oJ~:;ie         -   ......._.
 S ?t!b't-c '::rig~gerr.ent     ______ _
   )~ C11l n>?· Storyn~:l & Oue-srioni !a;~e
   2; ln-Pt?rson O:::en Ho~se
   3; "-'tar·~e!Jng M~t$rltis
 TASK 2.· Draft Pl6n Revisions
 A Revised Drcft Pian Outhrw


 C. Cta1 Ptu, - t ayou~ Draft
 TASK 3: Adoption Process

 B. A~opt;o~ rle.,,mqs (1 PC .0. 1CCI




                                                                                                                                         page
                                                                                                                                           l
Fee Proposal
The following is brief summary of the anticipated hours needed to complete the work. As
illustrated in the chart, Landmark Design proposes a contract amendment of $34,625 to complete
the updates to the General Plan. This fee is inclusive of all reimbursable costs for mileage, printing,
materials, etc.

                                                                                                   SUBTOTAL
                                                                                LANDMARK            BY TASK
           STAFF                                                       PRINCIPAL       STAFF
           HOURLY RATE                                                $    175.00    $   110.00

           St,1ft"Rev1ew a,1d Progress Meei!ngs /Online)                   12              0        $2,10000
           TASK 1: Subcommitee Deliverables & Public Engagement
           A Synthesize goals ancl dev,iop draft pla;, outt,ne                  2<!          0       $4,200.00
            B Public Engagement
                1) Online Stc1ymap & Oues11orn1ai·e                              2           8       $1.230.00
                2) In ·Person 0;:ien House                                       4          12       $2,020 00
                31 Markeiing Materials                                           1           4        $615 00
            TASK 2: Dn1ft Plan Revisions
           A Revised Draft Plan Outline                                          4           0        $700.00
            3 Draft Plan • Admin1st:-c1t1ve Draft                               76          20      $15,500.00
           C 8roft Plan • L~yout Draft                                           4          .:o      $5.100.00
            TASK 3: Adoption Process
           A. F;nal P'an Revisions                                               4          16       $2,460 00
            B Adopt;on Heari~gs (1 PC & 1 CC\                                    4           0        $70000
           C "inal Deliverables                                                  1           4        $615 00
                                                  TOTAL HOURS BY STAFF          135        100
                                                               Fee by Staff S 23,625 00 $ 11.00000
           r---- - -                                -·         TO.J~ FEE .. _ _ _ _ _              "$'~
           r,__ .. - •• - --·· ---·- --- - - - - - - * - · -



Once a contract amendment has been approved, Landmark Design. Inc. will bill monthly for work
and time completed. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Client agrees to limit Landmark
Design, lnc.'s liability to the amount of Landmark Design, !nc.'s professional fee for services
rendered. This limitation shall apply regardless of cause of action or legal theory pied or asserted.
Please feel free to contact me if you have any comments or questions.


Yours Sincerely,




Sam Taylor, PLA, ASLA
Principal+ Owner, landmark Design




                                                                                                                 page
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           C11y brrnv-m 1/.t ,,mJ1J111




                                    7.7
                    Resolution 2026-40
 By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into
an agreement whereunder Dunn Associates, Inc. will conduct an
independent structural integrity assessment and preservation cost
 study of the historic "Old Mill" structure located at 6851 South
            Big Cottonwood Canyon Road in the city.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-40

               A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH
     DUNN ASS0CTA TES, INC. FOR AN ANALYSIS OF THE "OLD MILL" STRUCTURE

       \VHEREAS, the city council (the "Councir') of the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City")
met in regular session on 16 June 2026 to consider, among other things, approving a consulting
agreement (the "Agreement") with Dunn Associates, Inc. ("Provider") where under Provider would
conduct an independent structural integrity assessment and preservation cost sh.idy of the historic
"Old Mill" structure located at 6851 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road within City's
boundaries, and perform related work, in accordance with applicable standards and the terms and
conditions of the Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fonn of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to approve City's entry into the
Agreement as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the attached Agreement is hereby approved, and that City's mayor and recorder are authorized and
directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-40, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective l6 June 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:------------                              By:-----------------
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hy and                Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16 th day of June 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of June 2026.
                      Agreement for Consulting Services
                                   ("Old Mill" Structure)

        THIS AGREEMENT FOR CONSULTING SERVICES (this "Agreement") is made
effective 16 June 2026 by COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality whose address is
2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottouwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"), and by DUNN
ASSOCIATES, INC., a Utah corporatiou whose address is 380 West 800 South, Suite l 00, Salt
Lake City, UT 84101 ("Consultant"). Iu this Agreement, City and Consultant are each a "party"
and collectively are the "parties."



       A.        City desires to obtain from a qualified professional provider an independent
stmctural integrity assessment and preservation cost study of the historic "O!d Mill" strncture
located at 6851 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road in City (the "Old Mill"), and related
services, all in accordance with applicable standards and attached Exhibit A.

        B.      Consultant regularly provides such services and on or about 22 April 2026
submitted a proposal (the "Proposaf') to City in response to a request for statement of
qualifications (the "RFQ") issued by City on or about 26 March 2026 concerning the services
desired by City. Consultant subsequently submitted a scope of services and fee summary (the
"Summary"). Copies of tbe Proposal and the Summary are attached hereto as Exhibit "A"
("Exhibit A")

        C.      After reviewing Exhibit "A" City has determined to retain Consultant to provide
the subject services.

        D.     By this Agreement, City desires to retain Consultant, and Consultant desires to be
retained by City, to perform the subject consulting services 011 the terms and conditions specified
herein.

        E.      City and Consultant intend to ideutify herein the consulting services to be
performed for City by Consultant, the basis of compensation for sucb services, and to otherwise
set forth their entire agreement concerning the subject services. Consequently, this Agreement
shall supercede any and all prior or contemporaneous negotiations and/or agreements, oral and/or
written, between the parties concerning the services to be provided under this Agreement.



        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        Section 1.      Scope of Services. Consultant shall provide the services (collectively, the
"Services") to City that are described in the RFQ, Exhibit A, and below, as well as all ancillary
and associated services as may be reasonably necessary or advisable to complement and
complete tbe Services, all as contemplated by all applicable legal requirements and best
practices. Subject to the foregoing, the Services shall include the following :
               (a)    Phases. The Services shall be divided into the phases, steps and work
described in Exhibit A.

               (b)     JJublic Meetings. Consultant shall attend such public meetings concerning
the Services as City reasonably may direct. City shall schedule and advertise all public meetings
or hearings. City may request Consultant to make a presentation concerning the Services at one
or more public meetings to receive public input and direction from City. All reasonable and final
adjustments to the resulting Services as directed by City will be made by Consultant prior to their
final acceptance by City.

               (c)    Schedule. It is anticipated that the Services will be completed by 15
September 2026. Consultant shall comply -with such performance schedule for the component
Services as City reasonably may direct upon reasonable prior notice to Consultant.

              (d)      Deliverables. Consultant shall provide all deliverables identified in
Exhibit A as well as such other documentation and deliverables as City reasonably may request.

               (e)     Other Services. Consultant shall perform all other services and work as
specified in Exhibit A or as may be muntally agreed to by the parties in v,,rriting.

If Consultant believes that any of the aforementioned services merit payment of any additional
fee beyond the Fee (defined below), then Consultant shall so inform City in advance before
undertaking any of such additional services, describing the need for such additional services and
the not to exceed cost of providing them. If City desires Consultant to proceed with any such
additional services, City shall so inform Consultant in v,,rriting. Consultant may not perform any
additional services, or seek compensation therefor, without City's prior written consent.

        Section 2.      Performance of Services. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement, Consultant shall furnish all supervision, personnel, labor, materials, supplies and
shall obtain all licenses and permits required for performance of the Services. The Services shall
be perfonned at Consultant's offices and other mutually-agreeable places.

        Section 3.    Compensation; Invoices; Remittance. For satisfactory performance, City
shall pay to Consultant the maximum amount of $18,500.00 as detailed in Exhibit A (the "Fee").

               (a)    Invoices. Consultant shall invoice City for the Services performed during
each calendar month at the end of that month or as soon as practical thereafter. All invoices
submitted to City shall contain references to this Agreement. lnvoices shall detail the Services
performed and shall contain copies of all supporting documents or proof of any expenditures on
behalf of City, and otherwise shall be in sync with the stage of completion of the Services
outlined in Exhibit A. Invoices for any approved additional services also shall specify the
person(s) perfonning such services, the hours worked, the applicable hourly rnte(s),

                (b)      Questioned Charges. Any questions or objections by City concerning
Consultant's charges under an invoice for the any services shall be submitted within 30 days
after City's receipt of the subject invoice.

              (c)   Remittances. Subject to subsection 3(b), all invoiced amounts due for
Services performed shall be paid by City within 30 days after City's receipt of the subject
invoice. If payment is not remitted or reasonably questioned to Consultant when due, Consultant
shall be entitled to recover interest thereon at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from and
after the date the remittance is due and payable.

        Section 4.    Change in Level of Services. City shall be freely entitled to modify
(increase or decrease) the level of the Services hereunder by providing at least 15 days' prior
written notice to Consultant of such change, provided that any increase in the level of the
Services shall be subject to Consultant's reasonable approval. Consultant's compensation shall
be reasonably modified in connection with any such change.

        Section 5.     Suspension of Services. City shall have the absolute right to terminate the
Services at any time without cost or liability to Consultant as provided in this Agreement. City
also may by written notice direct Consultant to temporarily suspend performance of any or all of
the Services for a specified period of time. lf such suspension is not occasioned by the fault or
negligence of Consultant, this Agreement may be modified to compensate Consultant for extra
costs reasonably incurred as a result of said suspension, provided that any claim for adjustment is
supported by appropriate cost documentation and asserted within 20 calendar days after the date
that City issues an order for resumption of the Services. Upon its receipt of any such suspension
notice, Consultant immediately shall (a) discontinue the Services; (b) place no fmiher orders or
subcontracts in connection with the Services; (c) suspend all outstanding orders and subcontracts
in connection with the Services; (d) protect and maintain the existing work and work-product in
connection with the Services; and (e) otherwise mitigate City's costs and liabilities for the
suspended areas of the Services.

       Section 6.     Termination for Convenience. City may tem1inate this Agreement, or
any part hereof, at any time with or without cause prior to its completion by sending to
Consultant written notice of such termination. Upon auy such tem1ination, City shall pay to
Consultant the full amount due for all Services satisfactorily performed by Consultant as of the
date of termination, excluding damages or anticipated profits on work not yet completed or
perfonned.

        Section 7.     Ownership of Designs and Drawings. Consultant and its subconsultants
shall be deemed the authors and owners of the documents (including, without limitation, original
drawings, estimates, specifications, field notes and data, and whether printed or stored on paper
or as electronic, magnetic, or digital infonnation) respectively produced by them in performance
of the Services (collectively, the "Instruments of Service"), and shall retain all common law,
statutory, and other reserved rights therein, including copyrights. Conditioned only on City's
payment to Consultant of the amounts due hereunder, at tl1e conclusion of the Services or any
earlier tetmiuation thereof Consultant shall deliver to City all Instnunents of Service, whether or
not complete. City shall have a nonexclusive, perpetual license to use, disclose, refer to, share (in
written or electronic fonn), publicize and otherwise rely on and disseminate the Tnstmments of
Service in connection with the Project and any and all related public processes, litigation, or
otherwise. Consultant may, at its expense, reproduce for its own records the Instruments of
Service so supplied to City. Consultant may not disclose, sell , use, publish or display any
Instruments of Service or other information collected or produced in connection with its
perfom1ance of this Agreement without City' s prior written consent. City shall not reuse or make
any modification to Consultant's Instruments of Service without Consultant's prior written
authorization. City agrees that use of the lnstrnments of Service for purposes other than
identified and specified in this Agreement is at City's sole and own risk, and City shall
                                                 -3-
indemnify and hold ham1!ess Consultant from any claims arising from such use, from use of any
incomplete Instruments of Service, or from modifications to the Instruments of Service made by
City or with City's knowledge and express consent.

        Section 8.    Nondisclosure; Conflict of Interest Consultant shall not divulge to third
parties without City's prior written consent any information obtained from or through City in
connection with the performance of this Agreement. Unless waived by City, Consultant shall
require its employees and subcontractors of any tier to adhere to the same covenant of
nondisclosure . Consultant shall safeguard the confidentiality of any infonnation obtained from or
through City in connection with the performance of this Agreemeut to the same extent as
Consultant safeguards the confidentiality of its own proprietary or confidential information.
Consultant and its subcontractors shall not act as a consultant in any matters adverse to City.

       Section 9.      Compliance with Laws. Consultant shall at all times comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, stanites, rules, regulations, and ordinances, including,
without limitation, those governing wages, hours, desegregation, employment discrimination,
workers' compensation, employer's liability and safety. Consultaut also shall comply with all
applicable equal opportunity laws and regulations.

        Section 10.   Patent and Copyright If Consultant's employees , officers, agents,
subcontractors of any tier, or anyone of a like nature in the perfonnance of the Services or as a
result of performing the Services develop any trade secret, prepare any copyrighted material,
make any improvement, originate any invention, or develop any process or the like (collectively,
an "Innovation"), (a) such Innovation shall be the prope1ty of Consultant, but (b) Consultant
shall grant or cause to be used for the benefit of City (or for City's own internal use) the
Innovation for so long as City reasonably desires .

        Section l l .  Independent Contractor. Consultant shall perform the Services as an
independent contractor, and all persons employed by Consultant in connection with this
Agreement or the Services shall be employees of Consultant and not employees of City in any
respect or for any purpose.

        Section 12.     Assignment Consultant shall not assign this Agreement, or any part
thereof, without City's prior written consent. Any attempted assignment in violation of this
section shall be void from its inception.

       Section 13 .    Subcontracts. Except for those subcontractors which are specified in
Exhibit A, Consultant shall not award any work to any subcontractor without City's prior written
approval, which approval will not be given until (a) Consultant submits to City a written
statement (containing such information as City may require) concerning the proposed award to
the subcontractor, and (b) City has reasonably approved such proposed subcontract.

Consultant shall be as fully responsible to City for the acts and omissions of Consultant's
suhcontractors, and of persons either directly or indirectly employed by such subcontractors, in
the same manner as Consultant is liable for the acts and omissions of its own employees.
Consultant shall cause appropriate provisions to be inserted in all subcontracts to bind
subcontractors to Consultant by the terms and couditions of this Agreement insofar as applicable
to the work of subcontractors, and to give Consultant the same power to terminate any
subcontract as City may exercise over Consultant under this Agreement. Nothing in this
                                                -4-
Agreement, and no course of dealing, shall create any contractual relationship between City and
any of Consultant's subcontractors.

        Section 14.    Accounting and Auditing. Consultant shall keep accurate and complete
records in support of all remuneration paid hereunder. City, or its audit representative, shall have
the right at any reasonable time(s) to examine, audit, and reproduce all records pertaining to
costs, including but not limited to payrolls, employees' time sheets, invoices, and all other
evidence of expenditures for the Services. Such records shall be available for at least one year
after completion of the Services.

       Section 15 .   Non-Exclusive Rights. Nothing in the Agreement is to be constrned as
granting to Consultant the exclusive right to perform any or all of the Services from time to time
required by City.

        Section 16.    Indemnification. Consultant shall indemnify and hold harmless City
(including its elected and appointed officers and employees) from and against any and all
demands, liabilities, claims, damages, costs (including City's reasonable attorney fees) actions
and/or proceedings to the proportionate extent caused by the negligent acts , errors, or omissions
of Consultant or its subconsultants in performance of the Services. ln the event of a lawsuit
brought against City as a result of the Services (or lack thereof), City shall notify Consultant of
such lawsuit. Consultant shall reimburse City for reasonable defense costs to the extent of
Consultant's proportionate share of liability, as finally determined.

The provisions of this Section 16 are subject to and limited by all pertinent law, including,
without limitation, UTAH CODE ANN. 13-8-7.

        Section 17.    Insurance. Without limiting any obligations of Consultant, Consultant
shall, prior to commencing work, secure and continuously carry insurance in accordance with
City's standard insurance requirements set forth on attached Exhibit "B" and shall furnish proof
thereof satisfactmy to City promptly when requested .

       Section I 8.     Pl'ofessional Responsibilitv. Consultant shall perform the Services using
standards of care, skill and diligence as normally provided by a professional in the performance
of consulting services similar to those contemplated hereunder. Without limiting any other
remedies available to City, if Consultant fails to comply with such professional standards,
Consultant shall , upon notice from City, promptly re-perfonn the sub-standard work at
Consultant's sole cost.

        Section 19 .    Examination of Work. All Services shall be subject to examination by
City at any reasonable time(s). City shall have the right to reject any unsatisfactmy work. Neither
examination of the Services, lack of the same, acceptance of the Services by City nor payment
therefor shall relieve Consultant from its obligations under this Agreement regarding the quality
and accuracy of the Services.

        Section 20.   Progress. Consultant shall submit periodic written progress reports as
reasonably requested by City. City or its agents or representatives may visit Consultant's offices
at any reasonable time(s) to detennine the status of the Services.



                                                -5-
        Section 21 .    Conflict Resolution. In the event of a dispute between the pa11ies
regarding the Services the parties shall first meet within fifteen (l 5) days to attempt resolution
thrnugh good faith negotiation. If not resolved within thirty (30) days, the parties shall submit the
dispute to non-binding mediation before a mutually-agreed mediator. Jf mediation does not
resolve the dispute, either party may proceed to litigation as provided in Section 22.

        Section 22.    Claims and Disputes. Claims, disputes and other issues between the
parties arising out of or related to this Agreement shall be decided by litigation in the Third
Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah. Unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the
provisions hereof or otherwise agreed in writing, Consultant shall continue to perfonn the
Services during any such litigation and City shall continue to make payments to Consultant in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 23.    Notice. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if given by a communication in writing and shall be deemed to have been
received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such
notice is deposited in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, and certified and addressed to the
parties at their addresses specified above or such substitute or additional addresses as a party
previously may have provided to the other parties through written notice.

       Section 24.    Cih''s Cooperation. City will provide the following assistance to
Consultant in connection with the Services:

               (a)     Representative. Designate a representative of City to act as Consultant's
point of contact with respect to the Services.

               (b)    Information. Provide to Consultant access to all non-confidential
information pertaining to the Services that is in City's possession or is reasonably available to
City. Consultant shalt not be responsible for errors or omissions in any City-provided
information, nor for delays in completing the Services attributable to City's delay in providing
required information.

                (c)   Staff Assistance. Such suppo11 of City's staff as City determines, in its sole
discretion, to make available to Consultant.

        Section 25.    Conflicts. In the event of inconsistencies within or between this
Agreement, the attached exhibits, the RFQ, Exhibit A or applicable legal requirements,
Consultant shall (a) provide the better quality or greater quantity of Services, or (b) comply with
the more beneficial requirements to City, either or both in accordance with City's reasonable
interpretation.

      Section 26.      Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this
Agreement:

               (a)     Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and
shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
or parts hereof
               (b)    Pronouns ond Plurals-. \Vhenever the context may require, any pronoun
used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the
singular fonn of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

              (c)     Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
and constrned in accordance with the Iaws of the state of Utah.

               (d)    Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and
tmderstandings pertaining thereto.

               (e)     Time. Consultant acknowledges that City requires the benefit of the
complete Instruments of Service in order to comply with time deadlines under applicable
ordinances and statutes to make fomrnl decisions concerning certain pending applications and
related processes regarding the Old Mill. Consultant shall use its reasonable professional efforts
to meet the schedule established in this Agreement and Exhibit A (the "Schedule"). Any changes
to the Schedule caused by typical force majeure events will automatically extend the Schedule by
a like number of days. Any other changes to the Schedule which will delay timely completion of
the Services must be approved in writing by City, which approval shall not be withheld or
delayed unreasonably. Neither pa11y shall be entitled to consequential damages arising from
Schedule perfomrnnce.

               (f)    Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations aud warranties
contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force
and effect throughout the term of this Agreement.

               (g)     Waiver. No failure by any party to insist upon the strict performance of
any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party.
No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other
covenant, agreement, term and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with
respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

                (h)     Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
shall not preclude the exercise of any other provisions hereof.

               (i)     Severahilitv. In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision
hereof is held to be invalid or void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of
this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If
such condition, covenant or other provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth,
such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or breadth permitted by law.

               (j)   Litigation. lf any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the


                                               -7-
prevailing party incident to such proceeding, i nduding reasonable attorneys ' fees, shall be paid
by the non-prevailing party.

               (k)     Exhibits. All exhibits annexed to this Agreement are expressly made a part
of th is Agreement as though completely set forth herein. All references to this Agreement, either
in this Agreement itself or in any of such writings , shall be deemed to refer to and include this
Agreement and all such exhibits and writings.

               (I)     Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterpa1ts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

               (m)    Resolutions o(GoverningAuthorilies. Consultant hereby represents that it
has been duly authorized to enter into this Agreement by a resolntion of its governing body.

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                                 CONSULTANT:

                                                 Dm-.-'N ASSOCIATES,           INC.,     a   Utah
                                                 corporation



                                                 By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

                                                 Name: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

                                                 Its: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


                                                 CITY:

ATTEST:                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


By: - - - - - - - - - - - -                      By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor




                                                -8-
                       Exhibit "A" to
               Agreement for Consu]ting Services

(Attach Consultant's April 2026 Proposal and the Subsequent Scope/Fee Summary)




                                      -9-
                              Exhibit "B" to
                      Agreement for Consulting Services
                  INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTIES
            CONTRACTING WTTH THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

       The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the contracting party, his agents,
representatives, employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the
contracting party's bid.

       A.      MlNIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE.

       The contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

               1.      Professional Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per claim and
in the aggregate for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, including "tail
coverage" for at least one year after completion of all services.

                2.     Automohile Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per accident
for bodily injury and property damage. "Any Auto" coverage is required.

               3.       Worker's Compensation: Worker's compensation limits as required by
applicable law for all employees and other persons.

               4.     Commercial General Liability: $2,000,000.00 combined single limit per
occmrence for personal injury and property damage; $2,000,000.00 annual aggregate. Broad
Fann Commercial General Liability is required (ISO 1993 or better). Personal injury, premises-
operations, products-completed operation, independent contractors and subcontractors fire legal
liability and, when appropriate, coverages for explosion, collapse and underground (XCU)
hazards.

               5.     Excess T,iahility. $5,000,000.00.

       B.      DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS.

        Any deductibles (5% limit), self-insured programs or retentions must be declared to and
approved by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"). At the option of the City, either: the
insurer may be required to reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as
respect to the City, its officers, officials and employees; or the contracting party may be required
to procure a bond guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution
and defense expenses.




                                                -I 0-
       C      NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT.

        The contracting patty shall sgree to promptly disclose to the City sll incidents or
occurrences of accident, injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or
policies.

       D.      OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS.

       The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

                      General Liability and Automobile Liabihty Coverages.

                      (a)    The City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers are to be
covered as additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities performed by or on
behalf of the contracting party; products and completed operations of the contracting party;
premises ovmed, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting pa1ty. The coverage shall contain
no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to the City, its officers, officials,
employees or volunteers.

                       (b)     The contracting party's insurance coverage shall be a primary
insurance as respects to the City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall be
in excess of the contracting party's insurance and shall not contribute with it

                       (c)     Any non-material failure to comply with reporting provisions of
the policies shall not affect coverage provided to the City, its officers, officials, employees or
voltmteers.

                     (d)    The contracting party's insurance shall apply separately to each
insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the
insurer's liability.

               2.      Worker's Compensation and Employer's Liability Coverage.

                The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against the City, its
officers, officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work perfonned by the
contracting party for the City.

               3.     All Coverages.

               Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that
coverage shall not be cancelled before its expiration date except after thi1ty (30) days' prior
written notice (from the insurer) by first class mail, return receipt requested, has been given to
the City.

       E.      ACCEPTABILTTY OF INSURERS.

              Iusurnuce is to be placed with insurers with a Bests' rating of no less than A: VII,
unless approved by the Manager.
       F.      VERITlCATION OF COVERAGE.

               The contracting party shall furnish the City with certificates of insurance and with
original endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and
endorsements are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The certificates and endorsements are to be on forms provided before work commences.
The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies,
with all endorsements, at any time.

       G.      SUBCONTRACTORS.

                The contracting party shall include all subcontractors as insureds under its policy
or shall furnish separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein .




                                                -12-
STATEMENT OF QUALIFICATIONS FOR
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS "OLD MILL" ANALYSIS

RFQ No. CH-2026-001      DUNN ASSOCIATES, INC.   APRIL 22, 2026
_ _o_~_
     UN_No_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _____,/




                 CONI ENTS




                              1   Letter of Introduction            5       Availability




                              2   Qualifications & Experience      6        References




                              3   Project Team                     7       Actions




                              4   Project Approach                 8        Risks & Mitigations




                                                                s,a·~ment or Qual1 f1cat1om fo r Cotto nwood 1-'e,ghts 'Old '-id' " Analvs,s I ?
--~-ou
     _Nu_O_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____,/




                                        Letter of Introduction




   (Mfore.nt By D~s1gn                       St~rer,ient of QuaI1f1cat,o.1s for Corron.-..00,1 He,ghts "Old 1v1,II· Analys,s I 3
___
  Oo_u_N11_Q_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                       __,J/




  Project                            TO:                                                                       RE:
  Preservation Cost Study            Tiffany Janzen                                                            Statement of Qualifications for Structural
  of the "Old Mill" Structure        Cottonwood Heights                                                        Integrity Assessment and Preservation Cost
                                     277 East Bengal Blvd.                                                     Study of the "Old Mill" Structure
                                     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
  Owner
  The city of Cottonwood Heights     Dear Ms. Janzen and Members of the Selection Committee,

                                     We are submitting this Statement of Qualifications with genuine enthL1siasm and a personal sta ke in the outcome.

  Submitting Team                    Dunn Associates, Inc. is a consulting structural engineering firm headquartered in Salt Lake City, licensed in over40 states, with
  Du 11n Associates, Inc.            a secondary office in St. George. I am the CEO and I live in Cottonwood Heights - less than four miles from the Old Mill. I have
  Aegis Project Controls             walked past this building more times than I can count. This is not a project we are chasing for volume. It is one we are pursuing
                                     because it matters to me personally, and to our firm.


   ~ AeG1s
                                     We are teaming with Aegis Project Controls and their senior project director, Sean Flynn, PE, MBA, Sean brings 25 years of
                                     experience in historic stone restoration, preservation-sensitive cost analysis, and adaptive reuse - including work on the US
                                     Capitol, Arlington National Cemetery, the World War I Memorial, and the restoration of J.M. Pei's National Gallery of Art East
                                     Building. Together, our team covers every element of the City's stated scope: structural assessment, seismic evaluation, stabi lization
                                     concept development, and credible order-of-magnitude cost development grounded in real stone work.

                                     We are aware that prior engineering reports have recommended demolition, We respect that conclusion and look forward to
                                     forming our own independent view. Prior reports reflect the judgment of the engineers who wrote them, and the interests of those
                                     who commissioned them. Our job is to provide Cottonwood Heights with an honest, independent assessment - one that serves the
                                     City, not any particular outcome.

                                     Our commitment to this kind of work is not new, We found a path forward for the Macy's at the old Cottonwood Mall - a vacant
                                     anchor store just minutes from this site that most people had written off - converting it into a mixed-use development that serves
                                     the community today. We have stabilized historic mill structures when others had stopped trying. We have retrofitted unreinforced
                                     masonry churches from the early 1900s, preserved stone facades on civic landmarks, and given honest structural assessments to
                                     buildings on the Historic Buildings Registry that deserved more than a demolition bid. Old buildings are not a burden to us They
                                     are the projects we remember.

                                     We are preservation-optimists backed by structural rigor. We will bring creative thinking to this project, and honest cost context
                                     alongside it - because the goal is not to save this building at any price, The goal is to give it a fair chance. This community deserves
                                     to know what that chance actually looks like before anyone decides it is gone,
  Dunn Associates, Inc.
  Consulting St ructural Engineers
                                     Respectfully,
  380 West 800 South, Suite 100
  Salt Lake City, UT, 84101

  801.575.8877
                                      ~;/I- !ht~--
                                     David Dunn, SE, CEO
  www.dunn-se.com                    Dunn Associates, Inc.

                                     dd unn@dunn-se.com


                                                                                                                  Statement 0f Qual,fic:1t1ons for Cottorwood Heights "ffd M:11· Analym I 4
_ _Q_D_UN_N_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/




                                                                                          -- - -          --   - --   -        -    -     - -




                                                    Qualifications & Experience




                                                          Statemsnt of Qu;;hficJ,ion, for Cotronwoocl He19ht; ·0Id ,1,,1,1:• Analym I S
__ ~________________________________________________________/
 ___;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_                                                                                                                                                                   ~




      WHO WEARE.
                                                                     We have completed numerous structural assessments and preservation-focused
      Dunn Associates, Inc. is a structural engineering firm with    studies for historic and existing structures, including:
      35 employees headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah, with
      a secondary office in St. George. Established in 1995, the         Evaluation of historic masonry and unreinforced masonry structures
      firm has over 30 years of experience providing structural        • Seismic assessments using ASCE 41 methodologies (Tier 1 through Tier 2)
      design, evaluation, and rehabilitation services for projects
                                                                       , Structural evaluations of buildings with limited or no original documentation
      throughout the United States. With licenses in over 40
      states, we are specialized in evaluation and rehabilitation      • Assessment of fire-damaged, deteriorated, and aging structures
      of historic structures.
                                                                       • Development of stabilization, retrofit, and phased rehabilita tion strategies

                                                                         Preparation of order-of-magnitude cost estimates to support decision-making

      WHAT WE DO.                                                      , Support of public agencies in evaluating preservation, reuse, or demolition
      Dunn Associates has extensive experience working with              options
      existing and historic structures, including u11reinforced
      masonry buildings, stone construction, and aging
      or deteriorated facilities. The firm regularly performs
      structural condition assessments to evaluate existing
      building systems, identify deficiencies, and develop
      practical stabilization and rehabilitation strategies. This
      work often supports public agencies and property owners
      in making informed decisions regarding preservation,
      reuse, or replacement.



      WHY IT MATTERS.
      Dunn Associates approaches each project with a focus on
      thoughtful engineering, collaborative problem-solving,
      and solutions that balance structural performance,
      constructability, and cost. This approach is partiCL1larly
      relevant to projects such as the Old Mill, where objective
      evaluation, realistic cost context, and sensitivity to
      preservation considerations are critical to supporting the
      City's decision-making process. Consistent with the firm's
      commitment to building things that matter, the goal is to
      provide clear, defensible recommendations that serve both
      the structure and the community it supports.


                                                                                                           Statament of Oua'i',catioes for Cottc1wcc,d Heights 'Old M,11' ,,i_na,ys,s I 6
~                                                                                                                                                                             /
                        "'1O5S COURTHOUSE


The Moss Federal Courthouse is one of Salt Lake
City's most prominent historic civic buildings.
Dunn Associates served as structural engineer
alongside HOK on a comprehensive seismic
renovation of this unreinforced masonry
structure. Our scope included seismic mass
analysis, URM out-of-plane wall anchorage
evaluation and detailing. foundation and column
attachment retrofit design, MEP seismic brilcing                                   ~
                                                                           ,.,,,,irf-iilI!l'I! '_'.·~   I'<'.
coordination. and approximately one year of
construction administration support The project
involved extensive review of existing drawings,
site validation, and material testing program
development. The Moss Courthouse engagement
reflects our capability at the full spectrum of
historic masonry work - from initial assessment
through construction-phase support on a
landmark civic building.




RELEVANT EXPERIENCE                                                       =--~

Historic unreinforced masonry evaluation

Seismic assessment & retrofit considerations       Fronk E. Moss U.S. Courthouse Seismic Upgrade I Salt Lake City, Utah
Site validation & review of existing drawings

Stabilization & rehabilitation strategies

Multidisciplinary coordination




[J,tta n;,,it Ay CJ~c,1gr,                                                                     Statscnenl o f Oualif1cat10ns fvr Ccttonwood Heights "O 'd MHI' Analysis i 7
_ _O
   _o_u111_No_ __ _ _ __ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ /

           MORRISON & MERRILL


   This project is the closest scope analog to the
   Old Mill in our portfolio. The Morrison & Merrill
   Building is a three-story structure with partia I
   basement, constructed of wood framing with
   masonry exterior walls circa 1910. The owner
   engaged Dunn Associates to evaluate the
   building's anticipated seismic performance in
   connection with a potential sale. Our scope
   included on-site structural observations, review of
   existing drawings, development of seismic mass
   and loading conditions, and completion of a Tier
   1 checklist per ASC E 41-17. No destructive or
   non-destructive testing was included. Deliverables
   included a professional opinion summarizing
   findings and identifying structural deficiencies. This
   is precisely the type of assessment the Old Mill
   requires: observation-based, ASCE 41 framework,
   and honest findings,




   RELEVANT EXPERIENCE
   Historic wood-framed structure with masonry
   exterior
                                                            Morrison & Merrill Building Evaluation I Solt Lake City, Utah
   Seismic assessment (ASCE 41-17, Tier 1)

   On-site structural observations & existing
   drawings review

   Seismic mass & loading development

   Identification of structural deficiencies & risk
   areas


                                                                                          Statement o' Quahf,canon, for Cottonw,:,od He,ght; "O'd M:li" Analysis I 8
_   _   .;;;;o;;;;;.
              Dll_• .,0__________________________________________,/
                     ..;_




                            HOLY CROSS (HAP,EL


        The Holy Cross Hospital Chapel is an
        approximately 4,000 SF two-story unreinforced
        masonry structure with wood-framed roof and
        floors, originally constructed in the early 1900s.
        Dunn Associates completed a Tier 1 seism ic
        evaluation under ASCE 41-17 in 2023, identifying
        overstressed masonry walls, insufficient diaphragm
        capacity, inadequate wall-to-diaphragm
        anchorage, and excessive wall slenderness ratios.
        We are now engaged for the full restoration scope
        - including settlement mitigation, brick and stone
        masonry repair, bel ltowe1 stabilization, diaphragm




                                                                                                                                      ..
        and wall anchorage upgrades, and selective w ~II
        reinforcement. The retrofit is voluntary, targeting
        Damage Control performance at the Design Basis
                                                                             :;~ 1 ~fEar~~~~ rn ·t#I•
                                                                                                                        .,__
        Earthquake. This project mirrors the Old Mill's
        structural profile: early-era URM construction, no
        foundation documentation, seismic deficiencies
        identified through visual assessment, and a
        community deeply invested in the building's                                                                                                       "
        survival.


        RELEVANT EXPERIENCE
        Historic unreinforced masonry structure
        evaluation
                                                              Holy Cross Chapel Seismic Upgrade I Salt Lake City Utah
        Seismic assessment (ASCE 41-17, Tier 1)

        Jdentification of masonry wall & diaphragm
        deficiencies

        Evaluation of wall anchorage & structural
        stability

        Seismic retrofit & stabilization strategies for
        historic st ructure

                                                                                         St31eme.1t o' Qual1f1rn·.1ons for Cc,ttonv,ood He,gl'ts "Old \,H" An.sly,;, I 9
_ _ ,; _Qn
         _u_MN_O_ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ /

                             PICKLE & HIDE


    The Hide Building is an existing 15,000 SF
    two-story heavy timber and unreinforced
    masonry structure with a partial below-grade
    basement, located in Salt Lake City's Granary
    District. Dunn Associates is providing structural
    engineering for a voluntary full seismic retrofit of
    the existing building as part of a larger mixed-use
    development. The retrofit is being designed to full
    IBC forces per the International Existing Building
    Code, while preserving the building's historic
    character and keeping gravity modifications to a
    minimum. This project demonstrates our ability
    to work within the constraints of historic masonry
    while delivering a retrofit that meets current code
    performance levels.



                                                                                                                                                                .

                                                                                                        ==~=:=-~~~:."!~;;~:.:::-<a...~ ~
    RELEVANT EXPERIENCE
                                                                                                                                   ,,   I


   Historic unreinforced masonry & heavy timber
   structure
                                                           Pickle & Hide Development Retrofit I Salt Lake City; Utah
   Seismic retrofit design

   Upgrade to current code-level seismic
   performance

    Preservation of historic character

   Structural solutions within existing building
   systems


                                                                                       Sl a;ernent ~f Qua'1flcarn,ns for Co\lonwood He,ghts ·01d Mill" An.,:y,,, i 12-
          t,,
          ill
          :r
          6
          [
          B
          0
          u
          _p
          C
          g

 E        ,_,
          "'

 ro       ~
          6
~
          0


+-'
 u
  (])
• '="""
 0
 l,....
a..
___
  o_DU_NN_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _____,/




-          ORGANIZATl0N CHART I

                                                                    PROJECT TEAM
                                                                    Dunn Associates has assembled a focused team with the experience and
                                                                    expertise required to deliver a comprehensive structural assessment and
                                                                    preservation cost study for the Old Mill.

                                                                    David Dunn, SE, will serve as Project Director, providing executive oversight.
                                                                    Tait Ketcham, SE, as Principal in Charge, will provide technical oversight, lead
                                                                    the structural evaluation, and ensure quality and responsiveness t hroughout the
                                                                    project. Tyler Weinbrecht, PE, will seNe as Project Manager, coordinating
                                                                    day-to-day project execution, field investigation, and deliverable development.

                                                                    Dunn Associates is supported by Aegis Project Controls, with Sean Flynn, PE,
                                                                    MBA, serving as the historic stone and cost estimating specialist. Mr. Flynn brings
                                                                    extensive experience in preservation-sensitive cost analysis and historic stone
                                                                    construction, ensuring that stabilization and rehabilitation concepts are grounded
         Project Manager                                            in practical construction approaches and realistic cost expectations.

                                                                    Dunn Associates and Aegis Project Controls bring complementary experience
                                                                    in structural evaluation and preservation-sensitive cost analysis, allowing for
                                                                    coordinated, practical recommendations. Our team is experienced in field-based
                                                                    structural investigation of deteriorated and unsafe structures, including safe
                                                                    access planning and documentation.
    LOCAL & HOME OFFICE RESOURCES
                                                                    This team structure ensures clear lines of responsibility, efficient coordination,
                                                                    and continuity of key personnel throughout the du ration of the project.
    Salt Lake City headquarters for site access & coordination

    St. George office supporting staffing & availability

    In-house structural team experienced in seismic evaluation &
    historic structures                                             NON-SUBSTITUTION COMMITMENT
    Internal QA/QC procedures ensuring technical accuracy &
                                                                    Dunn Associates, Inc. is committed to providing the key personnel identified in
    consistency                                                     this Statement of Qualifications for the duration of the project. No substitution
    Capacity to support analysis, documentation, & deliverables     of key personnel will be made without the City's prior written consent, except in
                                                                    circumstances beyond the firm's reasonable control.
    Structural analysis tools & standard evaluation methodologies


                                                                                                 S:ateinent of Qual:'·cac1ons for Cottonwood re19hts "Old ,'vl11i" An&ly,,, i 12
___
  O_ou_NN_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/


                           David Dunn, SE                                                                                  Tait Ketcham, SE
                           Dunn Associates, Inc., I Principal, CEO                                                         Dunn Associates, Inc., I Principal, President
                           Project Director                                                                                Principal in Charge



    David brings over 20 years of experience delivering practical, buildable                       With over 28 years of experience, Tait specializes in delivering practical,
    structural solutions across complex projects, including work with nationally                   cost-effective structural solL1tions across public and municipal projects.
    recognized design teams. His experience spans structura I evaluation,                          His expertise includes structural evaluation, seismic assessment, and
    seismic assessment, and rehabilitation of existing and historic structures,                    rehabilitation of existing structures, with a focus on efficient, buildable
    with a focus on developing clear, cost-informed recommendations. As                            solutions. As Principal in Charge, Tait will provide technical oversight, lead
    Project Director, Dave will provide executive oversight and technical                          the structural evaluation, and ensure quality and consistency throughout
    guidance, ensuring the City receives an objective assessment grounded in                       the project.
    real-world experience and sound engineering judgment.                                          Education                                               License
                                                                                                   B.S., Civil Engineering,                                Professiona I Structural Engineer
    Education                                            License                                   University of Utah                                      UT I 295747-2203
    B.S., Civil Engineering, University of               Professional Structural Engineer                                                                  LEED AP
    Utah                                                 UT I 7430093-2203                         Project Experience
                                                         LEED AP
                                                                                                   Moss Federal Courthouse Seismic Renovation; Salt Lake City, UT
    Project Experience
                                                                                                   Principal in Charge
    Morrison & Merrill Building Evaluation; Salt Lake City, UT                                     St1·uctural eng;neer,ng for seIsrrnc renovation of a h,stonc u111·e1nfcrced masonry
    Pnncipal in Charge                                                                             cIvIc budding, 1nc'udng seismic analysis, wil: anchorage evaluation, retrofit desig n, &
    Led evaluation of a h1stor1c wood-framed structure with masonry exterior 11✓alls,              co11struct1011-pliase support. Pm1ect involved detailed revI<:w of exIstIng cond1t1ons. site
    ,nclud1ng on-site observation, ASCE 41-17 Tier 1 seisrnic assessn1ent, & developrner1t of      vJl1da11on, and coordinat,on across d1sc1pilncs.
    structural loading conditions. Provided clear 1de11t11K:at1on of deficiencies & anticipated
                                                                                                   Holy Cross Hospital Chapel Restoration; Salt Lake City, UT
    perfonwince to suppor, ow11er decis,on-mak1ng
                                                                                                   Princtpa/ in Charge
    Holladay Hills Macy's Adaptive Reuse; Holladay, UT                                             Tier 1 seismic evaluation of a h1stonc uwe,nfcrcecl masonry' structure, 1dent1fymg key
                                                                                                   structural defioenc;es. Now leading full resto1·atIon design. ;nciud1ng stab1hzat1on,
    Project Director
    ?rov1clec1 over5ight for structural evaluat,on & seismic retrofit design for conversion oi     masonry repair, and seismic rctmfit to suppor: long-term pe1fo,rnance & continued use
   vacant retad bu1ld111g 1rno mixed-use olfice & retail sp.,ce \Nork 111cluded modeling of
                                                                                                   Pickle & Hide Development - Hide Building; Salt Lake City, UT
   tile exIstIng structure, ident;ficat1on of :aieral def:c1encies, & IntegratIon of new seismic
                                                                                                   Principal in Charge
    systems w1th1n the existing building to enable continued use
                                                                                                   'Structural engIneenng for seIsmIc retrofit of a h,stonc heavy timber a:1d unreinforced
                                                                                                   masonry bu1iding, designed to meet current IBC requwements while preserving historic
    Pickle & Hide Development - Hide Building; Salt Lake City, UT
                                                                                                   character & wmk1ng w1th111 the constrain is of the exIstIng structure
   Project Director
    Structural engIneerIng for seismic retrofr: of a h1stor1c heavy timber and unreinforced
                                                                                                   North Capitol Building Stone Panel Design; Salt Lake City, UT
    masowy build mg, designed to meet current IBC requirements while p1·eserv1:1g historic
                                                                                                   Principal In Charge
   character & working w1th1n the constrci1nrs of the exIst111g structure
                                                                                                   Struclural design of a large-sciile ex1erioI stoI1e pa11e: system, 1nclud1ng deve1oprne1,t of
                                                                                                   co,1:'1ecr:on details, coord1nat10:'1 of cornpl;,x pa11el assemblies, & IntegratI011 w,th pnmar·,,
                                                                                                   structwe. Des;gn-ass1st support & dra1NI;1gs review to ensure al;gnment with structural
                                                                                                   pedorm,'l11ce requ"ernents.
_ _o_~_uN_No_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _____,/


                           Tyler Weinbrecht, PE                                                                             Sean Flynn, PE, MBA
                           Dunn Associates, Inc., I Associate                                                               Aegis Project Controls I Senior Project Director
                           Project Manager                                                                                  Historic Preservation, Stone Restoration & Cost Specialist




    Focused on the evaluation and rehabilitation of existing strt1ctures,                            Sean is a licensed professional engineer with over 25 years of experience
    Tyler specializes in adaptive reuse and historic building projects. His                          in historic stone restoration, preservation planning, and cost analysis for
    work includes structural analysis, field investigation, and developing                           complex civic and institutiona I projects. His work includes restoration of
    practical solutions for buildings with complex constraints and limited                           nationally significant landmarks such as the U.S. Capitol, Arlington National
    documentation. As Project Manager, he will lead day-to-day execution,                            Cemetery, and the National Gallery of Art. As the Historic Stone and Cost
    coordinating site investigation, structural evalL1ation, and team efforts to                     Specialist, he will support structural evaluation with material expertise,
    deliver clear, implementable recommendations.                                                    constructability insight, and development of realistic, preservation-sensitive
                                                                                                     cost estimates to inform the City's decision-making process.
    Education                                             License
                                                                                                     Education                                               License
    B.S., Civil Engineering, Washington State             Professional Engineer
                                                                                                     BAE & MAE, Architectural Engineering,                   Professional Engineer (PA, VA, TX)
    University                                            UT [ 11546360-2202
                                                                                                     Penn State                                              LE ED Green Associate
   M.S., Civil Engineering, Stanford                                                                                                                         OSHA 30 Certifications
   University                                                                                        MBA, Johns Hopkins University

    Project Experience                                                                               Project Experience

    Moss Federal Courthouse Seismic Renovation; Salt Lake City, UT                                   National Gallery of Art - East Building Restoration; Washington, DC
    Project Manager                                                                                  Project Manager
    Structural eng1nee11ng for se1srn1c renovat101, of a h,stor:c unreinforced masonry               H,storic restoration of I M Pei's East Building, including modification & reset of '17,000
    civc bui!d1r1g, 1nclud1ng se1sn-x anaiys:s, wall anchorage evaluation, retro~t design, &         exterior marble panels. provided technical coordination & cost supper, in an active
    rnr1struction-phase support ProJect nwolved detailed rev;ew of ex1st1ng cond1t1ons, site         museum envirc•1ment
    val1dat1011, ,mcl coordination across d1sc,p/ines
                                                                                                     U.S. Capitol Restoration; Washington, DC
    Holy Cross Hospital Chapel Restoration; Salt Lake City, UT                                       Founder/ Stone Specialist Flynn Stone
    Project Manager                                                                                  Provided stone iabncat1on, detailing, & ~estorat1on support for· a s,g111ficant civil
    Tier 7 se1sm1c evalL1c1tion of a l11stonc unre1•,forced masonry s[rucrure 1dent1fymg key         landrnar"k, 1nc,ud1ng ccord1nation of specralty smne assemblies & reo:acernent eiements
    structura[ cefic1er1C1es Now !ead1nsi fuli restmanon design, including stab1!1zat,on.
    masonry repair, & seisrrnc retrofit to support long-term performance & continued use             World War I Memorial, Washington, DC
                                                                                                     Founder/ Stone Specialist, Flynn Stone
    Ho!!aday Hills Macy's Adaptive Reuse; Holladay, UT                                               Succorted restorat10t1 8, construction of memona; srone elements, 1nciud1n9
    Project Manager                                                                                  prccurement, fabrication coord1nat 1on, & preservat1on-sens1t1ve detailing
    Provided structural evaluation & se1sm1c retrofit design fer conversion of vacant retail
    building rnro mixed-use office & retail space VVor'k 1nclu•jed mocleling of the ex;St!r79
                                                                                                     Arlington National Cemetery - Niche Wall; Arlington, VA
                                                                                                     Founder/ Stone Specialist, Flynn Stone
    structure, ,dent1ficat1on of latera! deficiencies. & 1ntegrat1on of new seismic systems w1th1n
                                                                                                     Lecl stone supply & ,1,sta1:ai:on coord1riat1on for memorial construction, w:t:, emphasis on
    the ex1st1ng building to enable connnuecl use
                                                                                                     ,oeem1on detailing and :0119-term durability



                                                                                                                                $13,ernen: of OcJ!1f1cat,cno fnr Cmmnwoo d He,gi,ts 'Old µi11· ,\nalys,s I l~
___
  Oa_u_NN_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___,/




                                                     Project Approach




    l),iier~nt By Des,gn                                  S::c1temert of Qual:fi~1rnons fcJr Cottonwood --te1ghrs "Oij rv1r11· .A.nJlys1s l   \S
___
  Q_11u_NN_O_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____,,/


                     OUR APPROACH



                         The Old Mil I is a multi-story stone masonry structure built between 1880 and 1883, constructed primarily of stacked
                         granite and native stone using mortar and gravity-based methods typical of industrial construction of that era. Following
                         a fire in 1893, only the exterior walls remained. The structure has experienced rehabilitat ion, extended vacancy, flood
                         events, and over a century of weathering. Prior engineering reports have recommended demolition.
                         Cottonwood Heights is not asking us to save the building. The City is asking for an honest, independent evaluation, one
                         that gives the building a fair hearing and equips decision-makers with the information they need to act responsibly.
                         That is exactly the kind of work we do, and it is the spirit in which we approach this engagement.




                       observe                                                  analyze                                                     recommend

    Site Observation                                        ASCE 41 TIER 1                                             Cost Development


    Our assessment relies on direct site observation        The Tier 1 seismic evaluation framework under              Sean Flynn of Aegis Project Controls will lead
    and the structura I expertise of our team. We will      ASCE 41 provides a structured methodology for              cost development in parallel with our structural
    not conduct destructive testing or exhaustive           assessing existing buildings against current seismic       observations His background in historic stone
    material analysis. What we will do is read the          demands without requiring a full structural model.         restoration gives him a practical understanding of
    building carefully, documenting cracking patterns,                                                                 what work like this actually costs - not just what it
    wall plumb, evidence of settlement fire damage.                                                                    looks like on a spreadsheet.
    mortar condition, and overall structural integrity.
                                                                  This approach is we/I-suited to                      Cost estimates for stone masonry rehabilitation are
    We apply our experience with historic masonry                 a building like this one where                       notoriously difficult to develop accurat ely without
    structures to interpret what we observe. Where                documentation is limited and the goal is             probing investigation, and we will communicate
    our visual assessment cannot resolve a critical               informed decision-making rather than                 our assumptions and uncertainty ranges clearly so
    question, we will say so explicitly and recommend             construction-ready engineering                       the City is not surprised later.
    the appropriate follow-on investigation.




                                                                                                                   S:~:cincnt of Oua:,f,cariors for Cottonwood He,ght, "Old Mill' Analys,$ I 11;',
___________
 ~          ___________ ________/
 The Spectrum Of Outcomes                                                                               Our goal is not to advocate for any outcome, it is to give the
                                                                                                                      City the information to decide with cleor eyes.
 Five Paths.
 Ho,nest cost context for each.

   Near-Term/ Lower Cost            Middle Path                     Most Complex/ Highest Cost      Preservation of Story                      Last Resort

   Stabilization &                  Partial Preservation           Seismic Retrofit &               Reconstruction with                         Documented
   Mothballing                                                     Adaptive Reuse                   Salvaged Stone                              Demolition
                                    Retaining the most
                                    significant structural and     Bringing the structure           If rehabilitation is cost-                 A structured process
   Arresting further
   deterioration without            architectural elements,        to a code-compliant              prohibitive, rebuilding using              including thorough
                                    likely the exterior stone      performance level and            salvaged granite, qLJarried                documentation and
   committing to a specific end
                                    walls, while rebuilding        reprogramming it for             from the same source as the                archival recording ensures
   use. Often the most cost-
                                    interim systems to modem                                        Salt Lake Temple, preserves                the building's history is
   effective near-term action                                      public or community
                                    standards.                                                      the communities connection                 preser·ved even when the
   while longer-term decisions                                     use. Potentially the most
                                                                                                    at a fraction of the cost.                 structure cannot be.
   are made.                                                       irnpactful if feasibility
                                                                   supports it.




                                  ===--."""'-='"""'_________________________________ .,,...,...,...==--
                                                                                                     ·- ,,Ewestin tervention
 Iowest 1ntervent,on




   The Goldilocks Principle
                                                        Full preservation often costs more than stakeholders expect. Demolition often forecloses options that
   Find the middle ground.                              were more achievable than anyone real ized. The most useful thing an independent structural engineer
                                                        can do is balance preservation with real-world budget constra ints and give a beloved building the best
                                                        realistic chance at a meaningful future. That is what we are here to find.



                                                                                                             Sta•em~n\ of Oua.'1f1c3,,c,ns for Cononwo,x! He,gM , 'Old Mill'" Anaiy,i, I F
_ _O
   _o_oN_N_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___,/




                                                    Ava iIab i Ii ty
- -~
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '/
            AVAILABILITY




                           Our team is available to begin work immediately upon notice to proceed and has the capacity to
                           meet the City's anticipated project schedule, including substantial completion by September 1,
                           2026.

                           We have structured our team to prioritize this effort, ensuring continuity of key personnel
                           throughout the duration of the assessment.

                           This schedule assumes timely access to the site, availability of exist:ng documentation, and
                           coordination with the City for reviews and meetings. We will work proactively with the City to
                           maintain progress and address any constraints that may arise.




                           ANTICIPATED PROJECT SCHEDULE

                                 MAY              MAY-JUNE              JUNE-JULY               JULY-AUGUST                  SEPTEMBER
                                 2026               2026                    2026                        2026                    2026




                             PROJECT                                 ANALYSIS &                                             COMPLETION
                           INITIATION                                COST STUDY                                              /(nai !1ei'1,,,P.rnbiqs
                           contraa execunon.                          struetLJtai anafys1s,
                            Uckor! document                          devetop st0bd1zo£1on
                                revic:v..-
                                                   FIELD                 optr'cns, cost
                                                                                               REPORTING &
                                               INVESTIGATION              f!StllTid!ir!q
                                                                                              PRESENTATIONS
                                                                                               ciraft 8.: fi·nal reporcs.
                                                                                                rneeting5 l,V(th Ol)I
___
  Qn_u_11N_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___,/




                                                    References
_ _O_o_uN_No_
           . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __..,/


                 REFERENCES




                                Patri.ck Insley, PE                    Taylor Toone
                                Capital Project Manager                Senior Project Manager
                                U.S. General Services Administration   Woodbury Corporation

                                P: 801.577.3008                        P: 801.485.7770
                                E: patrick.insley@gsa.gov              E: taylor.toone@woodburycorp.com

                               Owner's Representative                  Owner's Representative
                               Moss Courthouse Seismic Renovation      Holladay Hilis Macy's Adaptive Reuse
                               Salt Lake City, Utah                    Holladay, Utah




                                Daniel Pedersen                        Jeremy Simmonds
                               Senior Project /Vlanager                Project Director
                               CREF                                    KEPCO+ Architectural Cladding Systems

                                P: 801.699.8218                        P: 801.97 5.0909
                                E: dpedersen@crefcom                   E: jsimmonds@kepcoplus.com

                               Owner's Representative                  Contractor I Stone Panel Clodding System
                               Holy Cross Chapel Seismic Upgrade       North Capitol Building Panel Design
                               Salt Lake City, Utah                    Salt Lake City, Utah
_ _Q_o
     _uN_11_Q_____________________________________                                                                      --,1/




                              Actions




                                  s:atement oi Qualificat,ons for Cotto nw,)orl He,qh:s 'Oid .\.111:· Analy, ,s I <'2
_ _O;; ;n_u_N•.;_
              O_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _,/




                    ACTIONS


                                No disciplinary actions or litigation in the past three years.



                                Dunn Associates, Inc. confirms that neither the firm, its principals, employees, nor any
                                subconsultants identified for this project have been subject to any discipli11a1y actions,
                                professional sanctions, or litigation, whether initiated by or against them, within the last
                                three years.




                                                                                      -•- - -- - - .a:-.
                                                                      .....iilllll• ..;;. - -:-a:.--·, t..., ' ~
                                                                                       •   ~   I   t   f   ,..t   J   ~ .A   ,I

                                                                                                                                  .' ..
                                                                                                                                     -'

                                N,1t,onal Gallery oi Art - East Bu,'dir•g Re,mra:ion I Sean Flynri


                                                                                                                      Staler'1en, of Qu.alificat~ns tc· Cotwnwc,od Heights ·01d Mil!" A<>dlys,1 I 23
_ _Q_o_
     uN_NO
         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___,/


       RISKS & MITIGATIONS         I             THE RISK                                                     OUR MITIGATION



       Unknown & Hard-to-Observe       The Old Mill presents significant documentation gaps;           Methodical observation before conclusion. We will
       Conditions                      no original construction drawings are known to exist.           document visible conditions systematically, 1dermfy
                                       Fire, flood ing, partial rehabilitation, and a century of       locations where hidden detenorat1on is suspected,
                                       weathering may have altered the structure in ways               and communicate the lrmits of visual assessmen t
                                       not visible from the exterior. Deterioration behind             clearly Where probing investigation would be
                                       stone faces, mortar joints, or at wall bases may be             needed to change findings, we will flag t hat as a
                                       substantially worse than surface conditions suggest.            recommendation for follow-on work rather than a
                                                                                                       conclusion we can draw from observation alone



       Foundation Uncertainty          Historical accounts indicate that portions of the Old           We will identify visible indicators of foundation
                                       Mill were constructed without a traditional structural          performance, cracking patterns. wall p!urnb,
                                       foundation, relying on mortar and gravity-based                 settlement evidence, and frame recommendations
                                       methods. The full extent of this condition and its              accordingly. Modern micro-pile and underpinning
                                       implications for stabilization cannot be determined             tech111ques are well-suited to exactly t his condition.
                                       through general visual observation.                             Our recommendation will be grounded 1n what 1s
                                                                                                       actually there, with cost context for what addressing 1t
                                                                                                       realistically requires.



       Cost M odeling Accuracy         Stone masonry rehabilitation is among the most                  Our team includes Sean Flynn of Aegis Project
                                       difficult scopes to estimate accurately. Unit costs vary        Controls, whose career has centered on exactly this
                                       widely depending on mortar condition, stone source,             type of cost work. We wnl develop estimates that
                                       match requirements, contractor availability, and access         clearly communicate assumed conditions, contingency
                                       constraints. Without original drawings or destructive           ranges. and the factors most likely to drive cost up
                                       investigation, any order-of-magnitude estimate carries          or down. The goal 1s not a number the City Wilnts to
                                       meaningful uncertainty.                                         hear, 1t 1s a number the City can rely on.



       Phased lovestment Risk          There is a real risk that each phase of investigation           Structured, sequential decision-making. Each stage
                                       r·eveals greater complexity, pulling the City                   of the work shoulci produce enough information for
                                       progressively deeper into a project that may ultimately         the City to make a cleilr go/no-go decision before
                                       prove infeasible. This is a legitimate concern and we           committing t o the next We will structure findings
                                       take it seriously.                                              and recommendations to support those decisions
                                                                                                       explicitly, presenting options w ith honest cost and
                                                                                                       feasibility context. The City retains full control at every
                                                                                                       step.


                                                                                                   St.stement cf Qu3lif1cat1ons for (mtonwood Heights "'Oki M,il" Anaiys,s I 25
_ _0:...._n_uN_N.;_o_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ , /



    CONTIN UED                                                   THE RISK                                                      OUR MITIGATION



                Water & Flood Risk                     The Old Mill's location at the base of Big Cottonwood           We recommend the City engage a civil or geotechnical
                                                       Canyon means flood and water infiltration risk exists           consultant in parallel wit h the structural assessment
                                                       independent of whatever structural stabilization                to evaluate drainage, flood exposure, and site water
                                                       is achieved. Any rehabilitation scenario that does              management as a companion scope.
                                                       not address ongoing water exposure is incomplete,
                                                       this affects the feasibility and long-term cost of any
                                                       preservation path.




                Historic Designation - Constraints &   The Old Mill's National Register listing governs                We recommend the City's study explicitly add1·ess
                Opportunities                          how any certified rehabilitation must be conducted,             feasibility across multiple ownership and use
                                                       constraining certain retrofit methods and adding                scenarios, not just a City acquisition path, so that
                                                       coordination time with SHPO. However, a private                 the full range of options is understood before any
                                                       development partner in an adaptive reuse scenario               decision is made
                                                       could access the federal Historic Tax Credit, a 20%
                                                       credit on qualified rehabilitation expenses that could
                                                       meaningfully shi~ financial feasibility.




                Site Safety During Observation         The building is unoccupied and in deteriorated                  We wlil approach site access conservatively, working
                                                       condition. Portions of the structure may present fall,          with the City to ensure appropriate precautions are in
                                                       collapse, or debris risk during observation. A thorough         place before any inspection begins. Where conditions
                                                       assessment requires access to areas that may not be             prevent safe access. we will document that limitation
                                                       safely reachable in the building's current state.               and its potential effect on the completeness of our
                                                                                                                       findings




                Stakeholder Expectations               A structural assessment of a beloved historic building          We will structure our final report to support informed
                                                       in a commu11ity with strong feelings about its future           dec1s1on-makmg, not to advocate for any outcome.
                                                       can create expectations the study was never designed            That independence is the most valuable thing we
                                                       to fulfill. The study will produce findings anci options,       bring to this engagement.
                                                       not a commitment to preserve or demolish.



                                                                                                                   Statement of GL:2:H1cc1t1ons !Or Cotton"vo0d He.ghrs •'Olcl ti..-1iW Arirfry·~!s I 26
    Doifon:·nt By D~SJgn
~
DUNN ASSOCIATES, INC
Consu Iting Structural Engmeers



             May 29, 2026
             Cottonwood Heights City
             2277 Bengal Blvd
             Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121


             PROPOSAL FOR STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING SERVICES

             Project: 260084 - The Old Mill -     Preservation Feasibility Study
                        Cottonwood Heights, UT


             Dear Jared,


             Taking a fresh look at the Old Mill is exactly the kind of challenge we take on with real enthusiasm.
             This is the kind of project that matters, and we'd be honored to help Cottonwood Heights find a path
             forward.


             We have the team, availability, and focus to move quickly on this. Our structural engineers have direct
             experience evaluating historic masonry structures and will lead the site assessment and analysis
             personally.


             A few things that set our approach apart on a project like this:
                        •   Preservation-first thinking. Where others have seen a building past its prime, we've
                            learned to see possibility. We specialize in finding creative retrofit solutions that breathe
                            new life into existing structures -   including ones that have been written off.
                        •   Value-driven decision support. We present retrofit options with enough cost context that
                            stakeholders can weigh tradeoffs clearly and find the Goldilocks solution - one that
                            balances preservation ambition with real-world budget constraints.
                        •   Proven experience with historic structures. We've worked across a range of historic
                            building types and understand the structural, regulatory, and community dynamics that
                            come with this territory. We're happy to share examples of similar deliverables so you
                            know exactly what you're getting before we begin.
                        •   A personal stake in this project. Our CEO lives a couple of blocks from the Old Mill and is
                            personally invested in its preservation as a Cottonwood Heights resident. This isn't just a
                            project for us -   we'll approach it with the honesty and care it deserves, and we're
                            genuinely hopeful that this beautiful historic structure can find a new life.


              Project Overview: The Old Mill (Granite Paper Mill), built circa 1883, is a multi-story stone masonry
              structure located at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon. The building has been vacant for an extended
              period, has sustained fire damage, and is in deteriorated condition. Prior engineering reports have
              recommended demolition; our work will take an independent, preservation-oriented approach -
              evaluating what it would take to stabilize, retrofit, and adaptively reuse the structure for public use and
              the costs to do so. Given limited existing documentation, our assessment will rely primarily on direct site
              observation and our team's struct•Jral expertise.




                                                                                                            Eno bling Grea1 Design'''
The scope of our services is as follows:


              1.   Condition Assessment - Site walk and documentation of existing conditions,
                   including structural deterioration, fire damage, and overall building integrity.
              2.   Tier 1 Structural Evaluation -   Mass and assess the existing stone masonry structure;
                   identify lateral deficiencies and key structural vulnerabilities beyond surface-level
                   conditions.
              3.   Concept Retrofit and Preservation Approaches -       Develop up to (3) three concept-
                   level solutions for stabilization and seismic retrofit, tailored toward adaptive reuse for
                   public use.
              4.   Cost and Development Recommendations -          For each conceptual preservation
                   approach, provide the following:
                        a.   Estimate Worksheet Summary
                             Preliminary cost worksheet summary based on current market pricing,
                             historical cost indexes, comparable project data, and appropriate
                             contingencies.
                        b.   Cost Evaluation and Recommendation
                             Estimated cost ranges for each structural item, along with a prioritized
                             recommendation based on urgency, structural risk, feasibility, and cost
                             impact.
                        c.   Development Opportunity Recommendation
                             A summary of potential value-add opportunities, including rehabilitation,
                             adaptive reuse, redevelopment potential, public-private partnership
                             opportunities, and impacts to property value or public benefit.
                        d.   Next Steps
                             Recommended actions for the City and Owner, such as contractor pricing,
                             additional engineering review, funding strategy, entitlement review, or
                           advancement into development planning.
              5.   Attendance and participation in Public Meetings - it is anticipated that we attend one
                   Planning Commission meeting (tentatively October 7) and one City Council meeting
                   (anticipated spring 2027) to present our findings, answer questions, etc.


                                                                      Fee: $18,500


If additional services are needed beyond the scope identified above - including additional attendance
at public meetings, coordination with a preservation group, or expanded structural analysis -         these can
be performed on an as-needed basis at an hourly rate. Such services must be requested in writing.


We thank you for the opportunity to provide you with this proposal. We have made our best attempt to
determine our scope for this project. However, if we have misinterpreted this scope in any way, please
let us know so adjustments can be made. Direction to proceed will constitute acceptance of this
proposal. A formal contract will follow as the structural fee is finalized. Thank you very much for your
consideration.


Respectfully yours,


DUNN ASSOCIATES, INC.                                     DUNN ASSOCIATES, INC

David R. Dunn, SE, LEED AP                                Tyler J. Weinbrecht, PE
Pri ncipa I/CEO                                           Associate




                                                                                           ·.;· Enacii·ng Great Design~
                        .................... (1),.
                              Cottonwood Heights
                              <:iry br1u ym 1/,r c,111yo111




                                        7.8
                       Resolution 2026-41
       The city's leased fleet of police and public works vehicles
  is rotated every approximately two years. Because the vehicle
 lessor [here, Zions Bank] requires the city to purchase the fleet
 at the end of the lease term, the city requires the original seller
of the fleet [here, Garff Enterprises] to agree at the time of sale
    to repurchase the fleet at the end of the lease term, thereby
insulating the city from the repurchase risk. This resolution will
      approve the city's entry into that repurchase agreement.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     RESOLUTION No. 2026-41


             A RESOLUTION APPROVING ENTRY TNTO A VEHICLE REPURCHASE
             OPTION AGREEMENT \VTTH GARFF ENTERPRISES, INC. FOR POLICE
               AND PUBLIC WORKS VEHICLES AND ASSOCIATED EQUIFMENT

        WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") formed City's police department and
its public works department to provide law enforcement and public works municipal services within
City, and desires to provide vehicles and associated equipment (collectively, the "Vehicles") for use
in performing those essential governmental functions; and

        WHEREAS, City desires to lease (rather than purchase) the Vehicles and have the option to
rotate the Vehicles about every two years to better assure dependability and reduced maintenance
costs; and

         WHEREAS, Zions Bancorporation, N.A. ("Zions") has proposed to lease the Vehicles to City
for a term of up to four years under that certain "Lease/Purchase Agreement" (the "Lease") between
Zions, as lessor, and City, as lessee, which will require City to purchase the Vehicles upon expiration
of the Lease, with City currently intending to effect such purchase between 1 July 2028 - 1 September
2028 (the "Repurchase Date"); and

       \VHEREAS, Garff Enterprises, Inc. ("Garff') owns one or more new motor vehicle
dealerships and desires to supply the Vehicles to Zions for City's ultimate use under the Lease; and

        WHEREAS, City is willing to enter into the Lease only if, inter alia, Zions irrevocably agrees
to purchase the Vehicles from Garff and Garff irrevocably agrees to repurchase from Zions or City,
as applicable, upon termination of the Lease, such of the Vehicles as City designates, as provided in
a ce1tain "Vehicle Repurchase Option Agreement" (the "Repurchase Agreement") contemplated
between City and Garff; and

       WHEREAS, Garff has expressed its willingness to enter into and perform under the
Repurchase Agreement to induce City to enter into the Lease with Zions and thereby to induce Zions
to purchase the Vehicles from Garff for lease to the City; and

        WHEREAS, City's municipal council (the "Council'') met in regular session on 16 June 2026
to consider, among other things, approving City's entry into the Repurchase Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Repurchase Agreement, a photocopy
of which is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of City and its efficient administration, and the health, safety and welfare of City's residents,
to approve City's entry into the Repurchase Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:
       Section 1.     Approval of Repurchase Agreement. The Repurchase Agreement is hereby
approved in substantially the form attached to this resolution, with such insertions, omissions and
changes as shall be approved by City's mayor in consultation with City's manager and attorney. The
execution of the Repurchase Agreement shall be conclusive evidence of such approval, and City's
mayor and recorder are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Repurchase
Agreement on City's behalf to the other parties thereto.

        Section 2.     Other Actions Authorized. City's officers and employees shall take all
actions necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the transactions
contemplated thereby, including, without limitation, the execution and delive1y of any and all other
documents required to be delivered in connection with the Repurchase Agreement.

       Section 3.     Appointment of Authorized Representatives. City' s manager and the
manager's designee in writing from time to time are hereby designated to act as authorized
representatives of City for purposes of the Repurchase Agreement until such time as the Council
designates any other or different authorized representative(s) for purposes of the Repurchase
Agreement.

        Section 4.     Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this resolution
(this "Resoluhon") shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph, or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this Resolution.

        Section 5.     Repealer. All orders and resolutions or parts thereof, inconsistent herewith,
are hereby repealed to the extent only of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed as
reviving any order, resolution or ordinance or part thereof.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-41 , shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 16 th day of June 2026.


ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL



By:- - - - - - - - - - - - -                 By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                              Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16th day of June 2026.

        RECORDED this _ day of June 2026.
                                                  2
                   Vehicle Repurchase Option Agreement
       THIS VEHICLE REPURCHASE OPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is
made effective 16 June 2026 between the city of COTTON\VOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah
municipality whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 8412 l ("City"),
and GARFF ENTERPRISES, INC., a Utah corporation whose address 111 East Broadway, Suite
900, Salt Lake City, UT 84111 ("Garff').



        A.      City is in the process of re-ontfitting its police department and its public works
depa11ment with approximately 51 motor vehicles for use by city employees in performing those
departments' governmental functions, which vehicles are particulaTly described on the attached
exhibit. The vehicles so described, together with any other mutually-agreed additions to such list,
are called the "Vehicles" in this Agreement.

       B.     City desires to lease (rather than purchase) the Vehicles and the option to rotate the
Vehicles every two years to better assure dependability and reduced maintenance costs.

        C.      Zions Bancorporation, N.A. or an affiliate ("J,essor") has proposed to lease the
Vehicles to City for a two-year tem1 under that certain "Lease/Purchase Agreement" (the "[,ease")
to be dated on or about 9 July 2026 between Lessor, as lessor, and City, as lessee. The Lease
effectively will result in the City's pmchase of the Vehicles at or before expiration of the Lease.
City cmrent!y anticipates that such repurchase likely will occur between l July 2028 - I September
2028 (the "Repurchase Date") even though the stated tem1 of the Lease extends to approximately
9 July 2029.

       D.     Garff owns one or more new motor vehicle dealerships and desires to supply the
Vehicles to Lessor for City's ultimate use.

        E.       City is willing to enter into the Lease only if, inter alia, (1) Lessor irrevocably
agrees to initially purchase the Vehicles from Garff, and (2) Garff inevocably agrees to repurchase
from Lessor (or from City, if required by the Lease) such of the Vehicles as City designates, at
City's option, for the Repurchase Price (defined below) on the Repurchase Date.

       F.      To induce City to enter into the Lease with Lessor, and to induce Lessor to
thereupon purchase the Vehicles from Garff, Garff desires to irrevocably agree to repurchase such
of the Vehicles as City designates, at City's option, for the Repurchase Price on the Repurchase
Date as specified in this Agreement.

        G.     The parties desire to set fm1h herein their entire agreement concerning the
repurchase of the Vehicles and all related dealings between City and Garff This Agreement shall
supersede all prior negotiations or agreements beti,veen the parties, oral and/or written, concerning
the subject matter of this Agreement.



       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and
undertakings of the parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

        Section L        Vehicles. City hereby irrevocably agrees (a) to cause Lessor to purchase
from Garff or its affiliated dealership(s) the Vehicles specified on the attached exhibit (as the same
may be amended from time to time), and (b) to lease the Vehicles from Lessor as specified in the
Lease. Any Vehicles missing VINs on the attached exhibit will be identified upon their delivery
by Garff to City, and such exhibit shall be deemed amended accordingly without further action by
the parties.

       Section 2.     Dutv to Repurchase. To induce City to act as provided in section l above,
Garff hereby irrevocably agrees to repurchase from Lessor, City or any other seller under the Lease
such of the Vehicles as City designates, at City's option, on or after (as designated by City) the
Repurchase Date, subject to the following requirements:

               (a)     Vehicles Repurchased. The Vehicles to be repurchased to Garff hereunder
shall be those Vehicles designated by City, at City's option, from time to time, which may include
none, some or all of the Vehicles identified on the attached exhibit.

               (b)      Purchase Price. The Repurchase Price to be paid by Garff for all the
Vehicles totals $2,209,000.00. If City elects to require Garff to repurchase less than all the
Vehicles, then the total Repurchase Price to be paid by Garff shall be appropriately reduced by the
repurchase values shown on the attached exhibit in collllection with closing of Garff s repurchase
from City of the balance of the Vehicles.

               (c)      Mileage. Tfa Vehicle has over 33,000 odometer miles, the Repurchase Price
for that Vehicle shall be reduced by a charge of twenty cents ($.20) per excess mile.

               (d)    Condition. Each Vehicle shall be in condition to pass standard Utah State
motor vehicle safety and emissions inspections of the type annually required for each registered
motor vehicle. City may, at its option and cost, obtain and supply such current inspections to Garff
on the Repurchase Date. City shall be responsible for repairing, at City's cost, any defects caused
by City's use of a Vehicle which prevent the Vehicle from passing such inspections.

                (e)    Equipment. Each Vehicle is equipped with manufacturer-installed,
"factory" equipment ("Facto1y Equipment"); additional equipment installed by Vehicle Lighting
Solutions (such as police emergency lighting, sirens, prisoner cages, computer mounting
equipment, K-9 cages, weapons storage vaults) ("VJ,S Equipment"); and other equipment and
items, such as decals ("Other Items"). Each Vehicle shall be surrendered by City with all Factory
Equipment attached and in good working condition. All VLS Equipment and Other Items may be
removed from the Vehicles prior to their surrender at City's cost, for re-use on City's future
vehicles: radios and antennas.

                (t)   Bodv/Glass Damage. Body damage to a Vehicle (except for reasonable
wear), excessive holes not attributable to equipment installations previously agreed to by Garff,
and broken or chipped glass shall be repaired at City's cost.

               (g)    Closing. Closing of Garff s repurchase of Vehicles hereunder shall be at
such time, on such date, and at such place in Salt Lake County, Utah as City may specify upon at
                                                  2
least five business days' prior notice to Garff. Upon repurchase City shall provide Garff with
"clean titles" for each Vehicle repurchased; Vehicles with "salvage titles" or "branded titles" are
not eligible for repurchase.

        Section 3.     Possible Future Lease. Upon termination and satisfaction of the Lease,
Garff and City may elect to enter into a new !ease/re-purchase transaction with Lessor (or another
lessor) to provide a new pool of vehicles for City on such terms and conditions as may be mutually
agreed by such parties at that time, the parties acknowledging that pricing may be affected by
factors such as then-current interest rates and intervening variances in the cost of vehicles and
equipment.

       Section 4.     Condition Precedent. The performance of each party's obligations
hereunder is conditioned on full execution and delivery of the Lease by City and Lessor effectively
contemporaneously herewith.

        Section 5.    City's Representations and Warranties. City hereby represents and
warrants to Garff as follows, and covenants that the same are true and accurate as of the date
hereof:

                (a)    Status. City is a Utah municipality that is duly organized, validly existing
and in good standing. City is empowered by applicable law, and by resolution of its city council,
to enter into and perform under this Agreement.

               (b)     Binding Agreement. Upon its full execution and delivery, this Agreement
and the obligations contemplated herein shall be legal, valid and binding obligations of City and
shall be enforceable against City in accordance with their respective tenns.

               (c)     Other Agreements. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions provided for herein will not result in a breach of or constitute a
default under any agreement or instrument to which City is a party or by which City is bound, in
a manner which would impair the consummation of this Agreement or the performance of City's
obligations hereunder.

               (d)     Suits and Proceedings. There are no snits or proceedings pending or
threatened in any court or before any administrative board, commission, or by any federal, state or
other governmental department or agency, which directly or indirectly affect or involve City and
which, if detennined adversely, would have an adverse effect on the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement.

              (e)    Third Parrv Approvals. Except as othe1wise specified herein, no consents
or approvals of rmy third party or parties are required prior to the execution, delivery and
performance by City of this Agreement and any other documents contemplated hereby.

       Section 6.       Garfrs Representations and Warranties. Garff hereby represents and
warrants to City as follows, and covenants that the same are true and accurate as of the date hereof:

               (a)    Status. Garff is a Utah corporation that is duly organized, validly existing
and in good standing. Garff is empowered by applicable law and corporate approvals to enter into
                                                 3
and perform under this Agreement.

                (b)     Binding Agreement. Upon its full execution and delivery, this Agreement
and the obligations contemplated herein shall be legal, valid and binding obi igations of Garff and
shal 1 be enforceable against Garff in accordance witb their respective terms.

               (c)     Other Agreements. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the
consummation of the transactions provided for herein will not result in a breach of or constitute a
default under any agreement or instrument to which Garff is a party or by which Garff is bound,
in a manner which would impair the consummation of this Agreement or the perfomiance of
Garff s obligations hereunder.

               (d)    Suits and Proceedings. There are no suits or proceedings pending or
threatened in any court or before any administrative board, commission, or by any federal, state or
other governmental department or agency, which direct!y or indirectly affect or involve Garff and
which, if detennined adversely, would have an adverse effect on the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement.

              (e)    Third Partv Approvals. Except as otherwise specified herein, no consents
or approvals of any third party or parties are required prior to the execution, delivery and
performance by Garff of this Agreement and any other documents contemplated hereby.

        Section 7.      Default. If either party fails to perform any of its obligations hereunder and
such condition is not cured within ten days after -written notice thereof by the other, such party
shall be in default hereunder and the non•defaulting party shall be entitled to proceed at law and
in eqnity to enforce its rights under this Agreement.

        Section 8.      Indemnity. City is a governmental entity under the "Governmental
Immunity Act of Utah" (UTAH CODE ANN. §63G-7-101, et seq.) (as amended from time to time,
the "Immunity Act" ). Consistent with the tenns of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is
mutually agreed that each of the parties is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent
acts which are committed by it or by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither party waives any
defenses or claims otherwise available under the Immunity Act nor does any party waive any limits
of liability now or hereafter provided by the Immunity Act.

      Section 9.       Additional Provisions . The following provisions also are integrnl to this
Agreement:

               (a)      Survival o(Representations and Warranties. The respective obligations of
the parties made in this Agreement, all exhibits hereto, and al! certificates and documents de! ivered
pursuant hereto, shall survive any closings contemplated by this Agreement.

                (b)     Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective parties hereto.

                ( c)  Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference.
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
                                                 4
hereof.

               (d)    Counlerparls . This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

              (e)     Severabilitv. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

              (f)      Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of, or consent to, any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

                (g)    Cumulative Remedies . The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be
construed cumulatjvely, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or
limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

               (h)     Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an. instrument
in writing signed by the parties hereto.

               (1)     Interpretation . This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

                U)     Allornevs' Fees . Tn the event any action or proceeding is taken or brought
by either party concerning this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs
and reasonable attorneys' tees, whether such sums are expended with or without suit, at trial, on
appeal or in. any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.

               (k)     Notice. All notices provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be given
by first class mai I, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth above or at such other address(es) as may be designated by a party
from time to time in writing.

                  (1)     Brokers. Garff represents and warrants to City that n.o broker or finder acted
for it or is en.titled to any fee or commission in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Garff shall indemnify and hold City harmless in respect of any breach of the foregoing
representation. an.d warranty. Similarly, City represents and warrants to Garff that no broker or
finder acted for City or is entitled to any fee or commission in respect of the transactions
contemplated hereby. City shall indemnify and hold Garff hannless in respect of any breach of the
foregoing representation and warranty.

               (m)      Time ofEssence. Time is the essence of this Agreement.

               (n)    Costs . All costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by each
party in conjunction wjth thls Agreement shall be paid by the party that incurred such costs and
                                                5
             Exhibit to
Vehicle Repurchase Option Agreement
       (Attach Desc1iption of Vehicles)




                       7
                                                                  Replacement Units
                                                                                  PURCHASE PRICE BEFORE                                                     Total Equipment
Model Year    Model        Color                  VIN                MSRP                                              BUYBACK Total Purchase W/Equipment
                                                                                       EQUIPMENT                                                                 Price
  2026          Tahoe     Polar White     1GNS6SKL9TR285251        $94,580.00           $87,467,00                    $58,000.00          $94,034.10              $6,567.10
  2026          Tahoe Summit While        1GNS6R KLXT R285607      $88,515.00           $82,246.00                    $56,000.00          $88,813.10              $6,567.10
  2026       Expedition    Star White     lFMJ UlM87TEA32666       $81,315.00           $74,126.00                    $49,000.00          $60,693.10              $6,567.10
  2026            2500        Cypress     1GC4K PE72TF253803       $74,690.00           $66,042.00                    $45,500.00          $72,656.60              $6,614.60
  2026            FlSO    Carbonized      1FTFW5lD9TFA89926        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,243.05              $7,107.05
  2026            Fl50    Iconic Silver   1FTFW5LD7TFA87417        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,243.05              $7,107.05
  2026            F150    Iconic Silver   1 FTFW5LD5TFA90 039      $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,904.32              $7,768.32
  2026            F150           Slack    1FTFW5lD2TFA90354        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,904.32              $7,768.32
  2026            f150     Avalanche      1FTFW5LD9TFA93185        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,904.32              $7,768.32
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LDXTFA88528        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    S45,500.00          $72,904.32              $7,768.32
  2026            F150     Avalanche      1FTFW5LD3TFA88287        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $72,904.32              $7,768.32
  2026            F150    carbonized      1FTFW5LD 3T FA92033      575,005.00           $65,136.00                    $45,500.00          $73,730.58              $8,594.58
  2026           F250      Sta1Wnlte      lfT8W2BN3TEE29789        $87,137.00           $78,942.00                    $52,000.00          $85,556.60              $5,614.60
  2026            F15□           Black    1FTFWSLD7TFA89278        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $38,500.00          $83,282.67             S18,146.67
  2026       Cl1ev 1500           Gray    1GCUKEE8XTZ326699        $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41,000.00          $67,129.55              $8,294.55
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD4TFA91277        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $78,310.23             $13,174.23
  2026       Chev 1500           Black    lGC UKEE81TZ328745       $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41,000.00          $67,lW.55               $8,294.55
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFWSLD3TFA88810        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFWSLD 6TFA88 591      $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFWSLD6TFA90261        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026       Chev 1500          While     lGC UK EE84TZ328500      $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41,000.00          $67,129.55               $8,294.55
  2026            Fl50           Black    1FTFW5LD4TFA88492        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $78,310.23             $13,174.23
  2026            FlSO           Black    1FTFW5LD4TFA86427        $75,005.00           $65,l36.00                    $43,500.00          $77.492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD8TFA81l446       $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            FlSO           Black    1FTFW5LD5TFA88806        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $78,310.23              $13,174.23
  2026            F150           Black    tFTFW5LD7TFA87790        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $78,310.23             $13,174.23
  2026            F150           Black    1 FTFW 5 LD8TFA88527     $75,005.00           $65,13e.00                    $38,500.00          $83,282.67             $18,146.67
  2026       Chev 1500    White Sands     1GCUKEE68TZ332646        $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41,000.00          $67,129.55               $8,294.55
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD2TFA88491        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43.500.00           $77.491.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Bl;,ck   1FTFW5LD8TFA88494        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95              $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD4TFA87522        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95              $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD9TFA89654        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00          $77,492.95              $12,356.95
  2026            Ft50           Blilck   1 FTFW5 LD5TFA88209      $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $36,500.00           $83,282.67             $18,146.67
  2026       Chev 1soo            Gray    1GCUKEE85TZ326349        $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41,000.00           $67,129.55              $8,294.55
  2026            F150           Black    1FTPN5LD3TFA8924S        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00           $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            Fl50           Black    1FTFWSLD4TFA89769        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00           $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            Fl50           Black    lFT FW5 LD 1TFA87526     $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $38,500.00           $83,282.67             $18,146.67
  2026            F150           Btack    1FTPN5LD8TFA86494        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00           $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTFW5LD4TFA87522        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00           $77,492.95             $12,356.95
  2026            F150           Black    1FTPNSLDXTFA87G54        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                    $43,500.00           $77,492.95             $12,356.95
   2026      Cl1ev 1500          Black    1GC UKEE63TZ328519       $66,760.00           $58,835.00                    $41.000.00           $57,129.55              $8,294.55
   2026           F150           Black    1FTFW5LDBTFA93467        $75.005.00           $65,136.00                     $43,500.00          $77.492.95             $12,356.95
   2026           F150     Carbonized     1FTPNSLD2TFA91276        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $42,500.00          $69,708.54              $4,572.54
   2026           F150     carboniZed     lfTFW5LD5TFA91899        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $42,500.00          $69,708.54              $4,572.54




   2026           F150           White    1FTFW5LD2TFA90208        $75,005,00           $65,136.00                     $45.500.00          $67,107.80              $1,971.80
   2026           F150           White    1 FTFW5L061 FA87859      $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $45,500.00          $67.107.80              $1,971.60
   20,6           F150           Willte   1FTFW5L09TF813032        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $45,500.00          $67,107.80              $1,971.80
   2020           F150           Wl1lle   1FTFW5L01TFB12926        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     S45,500.00          $67,107.80              $1,971.80
   2026           F150           Whfte    1 FTFW5LDOTFB12934       $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $45,500.00          $67,107.80              $1,971.80
   2026           •150           Wh:te    IFIFW5lD6TFB12744        $75,005.00           $65,136.00                     $45,500.00          $67,107.80              $1,971.80
                                                                                                                                                                               j
                                                                  $3,751,992.00        ~.282,137,00           $2,209,000.00              $3,758.098.81        $475,961.81



                                          Total Vehicle Purchase: $3,282,137.00                                 Total Repurch~se: $2,209,000.00

                                                Tota\ Equipment: $475,961.81                                      Total Depretlon: $1,073,137.00

                                                          Total: $3,758,098.81                            Total Eqpt & Depretlation: $1,549,098.81
                                  ;fI •\/I
                       ~ - - 0--c.l(


                           Cottonwood Heights
                            (.i~r b,r,,v:m ti~ r,11170I11




                                      7.9
                     Resolution 2026-42
     This resolution will approve the city's entry into the lease
of a new fleet of police and public works vehicles from Zions
                        Bancorporation.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2026-42


   A RESOLUTION APPROVTNG ENTRY INTO A GOVERNMENTAL LEASE-PURCHASE
         AGREEMENT WITH ZIONS BANCORPORATION, N.A., FOR THE LEASE OF
         POLICE AND PUBLIC WORKS VEHICLES AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
         AND A UTHORIZTNG THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF ALL RELATED
              DOCUMENTS AND THE TAKTNG Of ALL REQUIRED ACTIONS

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") is a Utah municipality authorized
by Utah law to lease property for the benefit of the City and its residents and to enter into contracts
with respect thereto; and

       WHEREAS, the City formed its police department and its public works department to
provide police and public works municipal services within the City, and desires to purchase
vehicles and associated equipment (collectively, the "Vehicles") for those departments' use in
performing those essential governmental functions; and

       WHEREAS, in order to purchase the Vehicles, the City proposes to enter into a "Lease/
Purchase Agreement" (with all related documents and exhibits, the "Agreement") with Zions
Bancorporation, N.A. (the "Lessor"); and

       WHEREAS, the City's municipal council (the "Council") met in regular session on 16
June 2026 to consider, among other things, approving the City's entry into the Agreement; and

       \VHEREAS, the Council has Teviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detem1ined that it is in the best
interests of the City and its efficient administration, and the health, safety and welfare of the City's
residents, to approve the City's entry into the Agreement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows :

        Section l.     Approval of Agreement. The form, terms and provisions of the Agreement
are hereby approved in substantially the fom1 attached to this resolution (this "Resolutfon"), with
such insertions, omissions and changes as shall be approved by the City's mayor in consultation
with the City's manager, finance di.rector and attorney. The execution of the Agreement shall be
conclusive evidence of such approval, and the City's mayor and recorder are hereby authorized
and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on the City's behalf to the other parties thereto.

        Section 2.      Other Actions Authorized. The City's officers and employees shall take
all actions necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate the
transactions contemplated thereby, including, without limitation, the execution and delivery of
acceptance certificates, IRS forms and any tax certificate and agTeement and all other documents
as contemplated in the Agreement. The City's officers and employees are further authorized and
directed to take all actions necessary in conformity therewith, including, without limitation, the
STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               ) SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

        I, Tiffany Janzen, hereby certify that I am the duly qualified and acting recorder of the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "Lessee").

        I fmther certify that the above and foregoing instrument constitutes a tme and correct copy
of the minutes of a regular meeting of the governing body including a Resolution adopted at said
meeting held on June 16, 2026, as said minutes and Resolution are officially of record in my
possession, and that a copy of said Resolution was deposited in my office on June 16, 2026.

        In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand on behalf of the Lessee this 16 th day of June
2026.



                                               By:-----------------
                                                Tiffany Jm1zen, Recorder




                                                  3
                          UTAH FIXED EQlJIPMENT LEASE


Long Name of Entity:      Cottonwood Heights City, a Utah municipality
             Address:     2277 East Bengal Blvd.
       City, State Zip:   Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
            Attention:    Scott Jurgcs
Public Finance Office:    Financial and Administrative Services Director
              County:     Salt Lake
             Amount:      3,758,098.81
                 Rate:    4. 1
       Maturity Date:     July 9, 2029
      First Pmt Date:     July 9, 2027
      Payment Dates:      July 9
         Auto Extend:     3
     Governing Body:      City Council
     Resolution Date:     June, 2026
          Dated Date:     July, 2026
                  Day:    9th
                 State:   Utah
                                      $3,758,098.81
                                 Cottonwood Heights City
                                Lease Purchase Agreement




1. Lease/Purchase Agreement of Cottonwood Heights City, a Utah municipality
2. Exhibit A. Calculation of Interest Component
3. Exhibit 8. Description of Leased Property
4. Exhibit C. Resolution of Governing Body
5. Exhibit D. Opinion of Lessee's Counsel
6. Exhibit E. Security Documents
7. Exbibit F. Delivery and Acceptance Ce1iificate
8. Exhibit G. Escrow Agreement
9. Fonn 8038·G
10. Wire Transfer Request
          LEASE/PURCHASE A GREEM ENT


              Dated as of July 9, 2026


                  by and between


                ZMFU II, INC.,
                     as Lessor


                        and


COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, a Utah municipality
                     as Lessee
                                                                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                                ARTICLE I
                            DEFINITIONS AND EXIIIDITS
SECTION I I              Definitions and Rules or ConstrucMn ..... ..                                                  .. I                                           ARTICLE VIII
SECTION 12               Exhibits .... .. ,.............. ........................................ ,..... ..
                                                                                                                                        PREl' AYMF..NT OF LEASE PAYMENTS IN PART
                                                                                                                               SECTION &.1            Exb-aordinary Prepayment r,orn Ne\ Proceeds ...... . .. ....... 15
                                               ARTICLE II                                                                      SloCTION 8.2           Option to Purchase Leased Property .......... ............. ..... 15

   REl'RESENTATIONS COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES
SECTION2.l               Represcnlalions, Cnvcnanls and Warranties of U1c I.cssee .... . 3                                                                              ARTICLE IX
SECTION 2 2              Representations, Covenants and Warranties of ciic 13ank ....... 8
                                                                                                                                                                  MISCELI ,ANEOUS
                                                                                                                               SEc1·1ON 9 l Notices ...... .... .... .........                 .. .......................... 16
                                               ARTICLE III                                                                     SloCTJON 9.2 System of Registration ............................... ,...................... 16
                                                                                                                               SECTION 9 3 lnslrument8 of Further Assurance .................................. 16
                               LEASE; LEASE PAYMF:NTS                                                                          SECTION 9 4 Binding Effect ......................................... .......... .......... J7
                                                                                                                               SECTION 9.5 Amendment, ........................................ .......... ................. 17
SECTION 3.1              Lease... .. .. .. .. .. .... . . .. .                            . ........................... 8      SECTION 9.6 Section Headings .... ........ ...... .................................. . .. ..... I 7
SECTION 3.2              lerm .............. .. ...... ... ....................... ...... .................. ... ....... . 8   SECTION 9.7 Severability ... .. , .... ..... ................ ................................ 17
SECTION 3J               Tcnnin~tion .............. ....... ........................................ ..... 9                   SECTION 9.8 Enlirc Ab'Tecmenl ........... ............................ ....... ............... 17
SECTION 3.4              Lease Payments.. ......... ....     . ........................................... 9                   SECTION 9 9 Execut ion in Countc,parts .............. .......................... ...... . 17
SECTION 3.5              Posscss,on or_Lca~cd Property Upnn Tcnnina1ion ............. 9                                        SECTION 9.10 ArbiLr:ation .......... ....              ...................... . .. ....... 17
SECTION 3.6             No WiU1bolding ............................................................ .. 10                      SECTION 9.11 Applicable Law . . ............. ., .................................. ..... .... 17
SECTION 3.7              Lease Payments to Constitute a Current Obligation of the
txssc, ......... ... ............ ........ ...................................................................... 10           Schedule or! .case P~ymen\:; ...................................... .. ............ Exhibit A
SECTION 3.8 Net Lct1,c...                                                   . .......... ...... ................... 10         Legal De.,cription of the Leased Property ........................... ...... ..... Exhibit B
SECTION 3.9 Offset.. ................................... ... .................................... 10                           Resolution of Govcnaing ll ody ..................................... ................ . Exhibit C
                                                                                                                               Opinion of lessee's Counsel ............................... ... .................. .. ... E>lhibit D
                                                                                                                               Security Documents.. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ... . .. . .. .. .. . ..       .. ........... b:.hib it E
                                               ARTICLE IV                                                                      Deli,•cr,· and Acceptance Certificut~... ....... ... .................. .. ....... ,., ... Exhibit F
                                                                                                                               E~cto\\"Agr~cmcnt . .................................... ... ......             . ... .. Exhihlt G
                                               INSURANCE
SEl."TION 4.1             Insurance . ..   .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. ............................... I0
SECTION 4.2               Vnma&<e to or Destruction of the Leased Property ............... I l



                                                ARTICLF: V
                                              COVENANTS
SECTION 5.1               Use of Ute Leased Property ......... .. .... .... ........................... 11
SECTION 5.2               Interest in the Leased Property l!od this l.«ise .................... 11
SECTION 5J                MainLetlaticc, Utditics, Taxes and Assessments ................. 12
SECTION 5.4               Modi ficatJon of the Leased Propeny ...... .. ............... ........... 12
SECTION 5.5               Permits. ............................................                    . .... 13
SECTION 5.6               Bank's Right to Perform for Lessee                     ...... .. ............. l.'l
SECTION 5.7               B~nk's llisdaimer o(W,irrnnti~, ....                   .. .................... 13
SECTION S.8               l ride mninca\iun .. .. .. .. . .. . ... . ... .           .. .................... ......... I 3
SECTION S.9               Inclusion for Consideration as lludget Item .... ..... ..... ......... 13
SECT ION 5 10             Annual financial Jnformation .................................... ...... 13



                                               ARTICLE VI
                         ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING
SECTION 6. 1              Assignment by the Rank ............................................... .... 14
SECTION 6.2               Assig1unentand Suhleasing by lhe Lessee.                .. ................. 14



                                               ARTICLE VII
                   EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
SECTION 7.1              Evenl5 of Default DcJJned ....                                   . ......... 14
SECTION 7.2              Remedies on Default...... ....................                     . .. ...... 15
SECTION 7.3              No Remedy txclusive ....................................................... 15
SECTION 7.4              Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses ................. 15
SloCTION 7.5             Waiver of Certain Damages .............................................. 15
                                  LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT

         THIS LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of July 9, 2026, by and between Z11FU II,
INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah, as lessor (the "Ban1c"),
and Cottonwood Heights City (the "Lessee"), a municipality and public agency of the State of Utah (the
"State"), duly organized and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State, as lessee;

                                           WIT N E S S ET H:

        WHEREAS, the Lessee desires to finance the acquisition of the equipment and/or other personal
property described as the "Leased Property" in Exhibit B (the "Leased Property") by ente1ing into this
Lease/Purchase Agreement with the Bank (the "Lease"); and

        \VIIEREAS, the Bank agrees to lease the Leased Property to the Lessee upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Lease, with rental to be paid by the Lessee equal to the Lease Payments
hereunder; and

        \VHEREAS, it is the intent of the parties that the original term of this Lease, and any subsequent
renewal terms, shall not exceed 12 months, and that the payment obligation of the Lessee shall not constitute
a general obligation under State law; and

         WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, to have happened and to have
been performed precedent to and in connection with the execution and delivery of this Lease do exist, have
happened and have been perfonned in regular and due time, form and manner as required by law, and the
parties hereto are now duly authorized to execute and enter into this Lease;

        NOW, THEREFORE, in considerntion of the above premises and of the mutual covenants hereinafter
contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:


                                                ARTICLE I

                                     DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS

         SECTION 1.1 Definitions and Rules of Constrnction. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
capitalized terms used herein shall, for all purposes of this Lease, have the meanings specified in the
definitions below. Unless the context otherwise indicates, words importing the singular number shall include
the plural number and vice versa. The tenns "hereby", "hereof', "hereto", "herein", "hereunder" and any
similar terms, as used in this Lease, refer to this Lease as a whole.

         "Acquisilion Amount" means $3,725,345.30 and is the amount represented by Lessee to be
sufficient to acquire the Leased Property and pay any ancillary costs associated therewith.

        "Advance" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 (l)(i)(D) hereof.

        "Bank" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

       "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which ban1cs in Salt
Lake City, Ulah or the Stale arc authorized to close.

        "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

        ·'Commencement Date" means the date th.is Lease is executed by the Ban1c and the Lessee and shall
be the date on which the Acquisition Amount is deposited with the Escrow Agent.
       "Escrow Account" means the fund established and held by the Escrow Agent pursuant to the
Escrow Agreement.

        "Escrow Agent" means the Escrow Agent identified in the Escrow Agreement, and its successors
and assigns.

        "Escrow Agreement" means the Escrow Agreement dated July 9, 2026, executed by Lessee, Bank
and the Escrow Agent, pursuant to which the Escrow Account is established and administered. A copy of
the Escrow Agreement shall be found in Exhibit G.

        "Event ofNonappropriation" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        "Governing Body" means the governing body of the Lessee.

        "Lease Payments" means the rental payments described in Exhibit A hereto.

        "Lease Payment Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(a) hereof.

        "Leased Property" shall have the meaning set forth in the Whereas clauses hereof.

        "Lessee" shall ha vc the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

        "Net Proceeds" means insurance or eminent domain proceeds received with respect to the Leased
Property less expenses incuned in connection with the collection of such proceeds.

        "Obliga lion Instrument" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 .1 ( c) hereof.

        "Original Term" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        "Permitted Encumbrances" means, as of any particular time: (i) liens for taxes and assessments, if
any, not then delinquent, or which the Lessee may, pursuant to provisions of Section 5.3 hereof, permit to
remain unpaid; (ii) this Lease; (iii) any contested right or claim of any mechanic, laborer, material.man,
supplier or vendor filed or perfected in the manner prescribed by law to the extent pcnnitted under Section
5.4(6) hereof; (iv) easements, rights of way, mineral rights, drilling rights and other rights, reservations,
covenants, conditions or restrictions which exist ofrecord as of the execution date of this Lease and which
the Lessee hereby certifies will not materially impair the use of the Leased Property by the Lessee; and
(v) other rights, reservations, covenants, conditions or restrictions established following the date of
execution of this Lease and to which the Bartle and the Lessee consent in writing.

        "Rebate Exemption" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1 (l)(ii)(A) hereof.

        "Regulations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2. l(l)(i) hereof.

        "Renewal Tenn" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        "Scheduled Term" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        "State" shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

         "Term" or "Term of this Lease" means the Original Term and all Renewal Terms provided for in
this Lease under Section 3.2 until this Lease is terminated HS provided in Section 3.3 hereof.
       SECTION 1.2 Exhibits. Exhibits A, B, C, D, E, F and G attached to this Lease are by this reference
made a part of this Lease.

                                                 ARTICLEll

                       REPRESENT ATTONS, COVENANTS AND WARRA.NTIES

       SECTION 2.1 Representations. Covenants and Warranties of the Lessee. TI1e Lessee represents,
covenants and warrants to the Bank as follows:

                (a)     Due Organization and Existence. '111e Lessee is a public agency of the State duly
        organized and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State.

                 (b)      Authorization; Enforceability. The Constitution and laws of the State authorize the
        Lessee to enter into this Lease and to enter into the transactions contemplated by, and to carry out its
        obligations under, this Lease. The Lessee has duly authorized, executed and delivered this Lease in
        accordance with the Constitution and laws of the State. This Lease constitutes the legal, valid and
        binding special obligation of the Lessee enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent
        limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws or equitable
        principles affecting the rights of creditors generally.

                (c)      No Conflicts or Default; Other Liens or Encumbrances. Neither the execution and
        delivery of this Lease nor the fulfillment of or compliance with the terms and conditions hereof,
        nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (i) conflicts with or results in a
        breach of the terms, conditions, provisions, or restrictions of any existing law, or court or
        administrative decree, order, or regulation, or agreement or instrument to which the Lessee is now
        a party or by which the Lessee is bound, including without limitation any agreement or
        instrument pertitining to any bond, note, lease, certificate of participation, debt instrument,
        or any other obligation of the Lessee ( any such bond, note, lease, certificate of participation, debt
        instrument, and other obligation being referred to herein as an "Obligation Instrument"), (ii)
        constitutes a default under any of the foregoing, or (iii) results in the creation or imposition of any
        pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance whatsoever upon any of the prope1iy or assets of the Lessee,
        or upon the Leased Property except for Permitted Encumbrances.

        By way or example, and not to be construed as II limitation on the representations set forth in
        the immediately preceding paragraph:

                 (A) no portion of the Leased Property is pledged to secure any Obligation Instrument;
                 and

                 (B) the interests of the Lessor in the Leased Property hereunder do not violate the
                 terms, conditions or provisions of any restriction or revenue pledge in any agreement
                 or instrument pertaining to any Obligation Instrument.

lf any Obligation Instrument existing on the date of execution of th.is Lease creates any pk:dge, lien, charge
or encumbrance on any revenues, property or assets associated with the Leased Property that is higher in
priority lo the Bank's interests therein under this Lease, the Bank hereby subordinalcs its inlercsts therein, but
only to the extent required pursuant to such existing Obligation Instrument.

                (d)     Compliance witb Open Meetilw: Requirements. The Governing Body has
        complied with all applicable open public meeting and notice laws and requirements with respect to
        the meeting at which the Lessee's execution of this Lease was authorized.


                                                        3
        (e)     Compliance with Bidding Requirements. Either there are no procurement or
public bidding laws of the State applicable to the acquisition and leasing of the Leased Property
pursuant to this Lease, or the Governing Body and the Lessee have complied with all such
procurement and public bidding laws as may be applicable hereto.

         (f)     No Adverse Litigation. There arc no legal or governmental proceedings or
1itigation pending, or to the best know ledge of the Lessee threatened or contemplated (or any basis
therefor) wherein an unfavorable decision, ruling, or finding might adversely affect the trnnsaction
contemph1tcd in or the validity of this Lease.

        (g)      Opinion of Lessee· s Counsel. The letter attached to this Lease as Exhibit D is a
true opinion of Lessee's counsel.

        (h)     Governmental Use of Leased Property. During the Term of this Lease, the Leased
Property will be used solely by the Lessee, and only for the purpose of pcrfonning one or more
governmental or proprietary functions of the Lessee consistent with the permissible scope of the
Lessee's authority, and the Leased Property will not be subject to any direct or indirect private
business use.

        (i)      Other Representations and Covenants. The representations, covenants, warranties,
and obligations set forth in this Article are in addition to and are not intended to limit any other
representations, covenants, warranties, and obligations set forth in this Lease.

         G)     No Nonappropriations. The Lessee has never non-appropriated or defaulted under
any of its payment or performance obligations or covenants, either under any municipal lease of
the same general nature as this Lease, or under any of its bonds, notes, or other obligations of
indebtedness for which its revenues or general credit arc pledged.

        (k)    No Legal Violation. The Leased Property is not, and at all times during the Tenn
of this Lease will not be in violation of any federal, state or local law, statute, ordinance or
regulation.

        (1)      General Tax and Arbitrage Representations and Covenants.

                (i)     The certifications and representations made by the Lessee in this Lease are
        intended, among other purposes, to be a certificate permitted in Section 1.148-2(6) of the
        Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 148 of the Code (the
        "Reguhltions"), to establish the reasonable expectations of the Lessee at the time of the
        execution of this Lease made on the basis of the facts, estimates and circumstances in
        existence on the date hereof. The Lessee further certifies and covenants as follows:

                         (A) The Lessee has not been notified of any disqualification or proposed
                 disqualification of it by the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service as an
                 issuer which may certify bond issues.

                         (B) To the best cuffent actual know ledge and belief of the Lessee, there
                 are no facts, estimates or circumstances that would materially change the
                 conclusions, certifications or representations set fmih in this Lease, and the
                 expectations herein set forth are reasonable.

                         (C) The Scheduled Term of this Lease does not exceed the useful life of
                 the Leased Property, and the weighted average tenn of this Lease does not exceed
                 the weighted average useful life of the Leased Property.

                                             4
        (D) Each advance of funds by the 13ank to finance Leased Property under
this Lease (each an "Advance") will occur only when and to the extent that the
Lessee has reasonably detem1.:ined and identified the nature, need, and cost of each
item of Leased Prope1iy pertaining to such Advance.

        (E) No use will be made of the proceeds of this Lease or any such
Advance, or any funds or accounts of the Lessee which may be deemed to be
proceeds of this Lease or any such Advance, which use, if it had been reasonably
expected on the date of the execution of this Lease or of any such Advance, would
have caused this Lease or any such Advance to be classified as an "arbitrage bond"
within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code.

        (F) The Lessee will at all times comply with the rebate requirements of
Section 148(f) of the Code as they pertain to this Lease, to the extent applicable.

        (G) In order to preserve the status of this Lease and the Advances as other
than "private activity bonds'' as described in Sections 103(6 )(1) and 141 of the
Code, as long as this Lease and any such Advances are outstanding and unpaid:

                  (I) none of the proceeds from this Lease or the Advances or any
        facilities or assets financed therewith shall be used for any "private
        business use" as that tenn is used in Section 141 (b) of the Code and
        defined in Section 141(6)(6) of the Code;

                 (II) the Lessee will not allow any such "private business use" to
        be made of the proceeds of this Lease or the Advances or any facilities or
        assets financed therewith; and

                 (TIT) none of the Advances or Lease Payments due hereunder shall
        be secured in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any interest in any
        property used in any such "private business use" or by payments in respect
        of such property and shall not be dcri ved from payments in respect of such
        property.

         (H) The Lessee will not take any action, or omit to take any action, which
action or omission would cause the interest component of the Lease Payments to
be ineligible for the exclusion from gross income as provided in Section 103 of the
Code.

           (l) The Lessee is a "governmental unit" within the meaning of Section
141 (b )( 6) of the Code.

        (J) The obligations of the Lessee under this Lease are not federally
guaranteed within the meaning of Section 149(b) of the Code.

        (K) This Lease and the Advances to be made pursuant hereto will not
reimburse the Lessee for any expenditures u1cuffcd prior to the date of this Lease
and do not constitute a "refunding issue" as defined jn Section 1.150-l(d) of the
Regulations, and no part of the proceeds of this Lease or any such Advances will
be used to pay or discharge any obligations of the Lessee the interest on which is
or purports to be excludable from gross income under the Code or any predecessor
provision of law.

                             5
         (L) In compliance with Section 149(e) of the Code relating to information
reporting, within fifteen (15) days after the Bank's written request the Lessee will
file or cause to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center, Ogden, UT
84201, an m.s Form 8038-G or 8038-GC, as appropriate, reflecting the total
aggregate amount of Advances that can be made pursuant to this Lease.

         (M) None of the proceeds of this Lease or the Advances to be made
hereunder will be used directly or indirectly to replace funds of the Lessee used
directly or indirectly to acquire obligations at a yield materially higher than the
yield on this Lease or otherwise invcslcd in any manner. No portion of the
Advances will be made for the purpose of investing such portion at a materially
higher yield than the yield on this Lease.

         (N) Inasmuch as Advances will be made under this Lease only when and
to the extent the Lessee reasonably dclcnnines, identifies and experiences the need
therefor, and will remain outstanding and unpaid only until such time as the Lessee
has moneys available to repay the same, the Lessee reasonably expects that (I) the
Advances will not be made sooner than necessary; (IT) no proceeds from the
Advances will be invested at a yield higher than the yield on this Lease; and (TII)
the Advances and this Lease will not remain outstanding and unpaid longer trum
necessary.

        (0) The Lessee will either (i) spend all of the moneys advanced pursuant
to this Lease immediately upon receipt thereat without investment, on the portion
of the Leased Property that is to be financed thereby; or (ii) invest such moneys at
the highest yield allowable and practicable under the circumstances until they are
to be spent on the portion of the Leased Property that is to be financed thereby, and
track, keep records of, and pay to the United States of America, all rebatable
arbitrage pertaining thereto, at the times, in the amounts, in the maimer, an.d to the
extent required under Section 148(1) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated in connection therewith. At least five percent (5%) of the total
amount of moneys that are expected to be advanced pursuant to this Lease arc
reasonably expected to have been expended on the Leased Property within six (6)
months from the date of this Lease. All moneys to be advanced pursuant to this
Lease arc reasonably expected to have been expended on the Leased Prope1iy no
later than the earlier of: (I) the date twelve (12) months from the date such moneys
arc advanced; and (11) the date three (3) years from the date of this Lease.

        (P) This Lease and the Advances to be made hereunder are not and will
not be paii of a transaction or series of transactions that attempts to circumvent the
provisions of Section 148 of the Code and the regulations promulgated in
connection therewith (I) enabling the Lessee to exploit the difference between tax-
exempt and taxable interest rates to gain a material financial advantage, and (II)
overburdening the tax-exempt bond market, as those terms are used in Section
1.148-1 0(a)(2) of the Regulations.

         (Q) To the best of the current actual knowledge, infonnation and belief of
the Lessee, the above expectations are reasonable. On the basis of the foregoing,
it is not expected that the proceeds of this Lease and Lhe Advances to be made
hereunder will be used in a mam1er that would cause this Lease or such Advances
to be "arbitrage bonds" under Section 148 of the Code and the regulations
promulgated thereunder, and Lo the best of the knowledge, information and belief
                             6
of the Lessee, there are no other facts, estimates or circumstances that would
materially change the foregoing conclusions.

(ii) Arbitrage Rebate Under Section 148(f) of the Code. With respect to the
arbitrage rebate requirements of Section 148(£) of the Code, either (check
applicable box):

  [J    (A) Lessee Qualifies for Small lssuer Exemption from Arbitrage Rebate.
The Lessee hereby certifies and represents that it qualifies for the exception
contained in Section 148(£)(4)(D) of the Code from the requirement to rebate
arbitrage eamings from investment of proceeds of the Advances made under this
Lease (the "Rebate Exemption") as follows:

            (1) The Lessee has general taxing powers.

             (2) Neither this Lease, any Advances to be made hereunder, nor any
    portion thereof are private activity bonds as defmed in Section 141 of the Code
    ("Private Activity Bonds").

            (3) Ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the net proceeds of the
    Advances to be made hereunder are to be used for local government activities
    of the Lessee (or of a governmental unit, the jurisdiction of which is entirely
    within the jwi.sdiction of the Lessee).

            ( 4) Neither the Lessee nor any aggregated issuer has issued or is
    reasonably expected to issue any tax-exempt obligations other than Private
    Activity Bonds (as those terms arc uscd in Section 14 8(f)( 4)(D) of the Code)
    during the current calendar year, including the Advances to be made
    hereunder, which in the aggregate would exceed $5,000,000 in face amount,
    or $15,000,000 in face amount for such portions, if any, of any tax-exempt
    obligations of the Lessee and any aggregated issuer as are attributable to
    construction of public school facilities within the meaning of Section
    148(f)(4)(D)(vii) of the Code.

            For purposes of this Section, "aggregated issuer" means any entity
    which (a) issues obligations on behalf of the Lessee, (b) derives its issuing
    authority from the Lessee, or (c) is subject to substantia I contra1 by the Lessee.

            The Lessee hereby ce1tifics and represents that it has not created, does
    not intend to create and does not expect to benefit from any entity fmmed or
    availed ofto avoid the purposes of Section 148(f)(4)(D)(i)(lY) of the Code.

             Accordingly, the Lessee will qualify for the Rebate Exemption granted
    to governmental units issuing less than $5,000,000 under Section 148(f)(4)(D)
    of the Code ($15,000,000 for the financing of public school facilities
    construction as described above), and the Lessee shall be treated as meeting
    the requirements of Paragraphs (2) and (3) of Section 148(£) of the Code
    relating to the required rebate of arbitrage earnings to the United States with
    respect to this Lease and the Advances to be made hereunder.

                           - or-

   D (B) Lessee Will Keep Records of and Will Rebate Arbitrage. The
                             7
                         Lessee does not qualify for the small issuer Rebate Exemption described above,
                         and the Lessee hereby certifies and covenants that it will account for, keep the
                         appropriate records of, and pay to the United States, the rebate amount, if any,
                         earned from the investment of gross proceeds of this Lease and the Advances to
                         be made hereunder, at the times, in the amounts, and in the manner prescribed in
                         Section 14 8(t) of the Code and the applicable Regulations promulgated with
                         respect thereto.

                 (m)      Small Issuer Exemption from Bank Nondeductibility Restriction. Based on the
        following representations of the Lessee, the Lessee hereby designates this Lease and the interest
        components of the Lease Payments herew1der as "qualified tax-exempt obligations" within the
        meaning of Section 265(6)(3) of the Code: (i) this Lease and the Lease Payments hereunder are not
        private activity bonds within the meaning of Section 141 of the Code; (ii) the Lessee reasonably
        anticipates that it, together with all "aggregated issuers," will not issue during the current calendar
        year obligations (other than those obligations described in clause (iii) below) the interest on which
        is excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes under Section 103 of the Code
        which, when aggregated with this Lease, will exceed an aggregate principal amount of
        $10,000,000; (iii) and notwithstanding clause (ii) above, the Lessee and its aggregated issuers may
        have issued in the current calendar year and may continue to issue during the remainder of the
        current calendar year private activity bonds other than qualified 501(c)(3) bonds as defined in
        Section 145 of the Code. For pw-poses of this subsection, "aggregated issuer" means any entity
        which (a) issues obligations on behalf of the Lessee, (b) derives its issuing authority from the
        Lessee, or (c) is subject to substantial control by the Lessee. The Lessee hereby certifies and
        represents that it has not created, does not intend to create and does not expect to benefit from any
        entity formed or availed ofto avoid the purposes of Section 265(b)(3)(C) or (D) of the Code.


         SECTION 2.2 Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Bank. The Bank is a COIJ1oration
duly organized, existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Utah, has the power to enter into
tllis Lease, is possessed of full power lo own and hold real and personal property, and to lease and sell the
same, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Lease. This Lease constitutes the legal, valid
and binding obligation of the Bank., enforceable in ac.;ordance with its terms, except to the extent limited by
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws or equitable principles
affecting the rights of creditors generally.


                                                ARTICLE III

                                   AGREEMENT TO LEASE; TERM OF
                                      LEASE; LEASE PAYMENTS

        SECTION 3.1 Lease. The Bank hereby leases the Leased Property to the Lessee, and the Lessee
hereby leases the Leased Property from the Bank, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein.

      Concurrently with its execution of this Lease, the Lessee shall deliver to the Bank fully completed
documents substantially in the forms attached hereto as Exhibits B, C, D, U, F and G hereto.

         SECTION 3.2 Term. The Term of this Lease shall commence on thcdateofexecution of this I ,ease,
which is also the date on which the Acquisition Amount is deposited with the Escrow Agent, including
delivery to the Bank by the Lessee of fully completed documents in the fonns set forth in Exhibits B, C, D,
E, F and G attached hereto, and continue until the end of the fiscal year of Lessee in effect at the
Commencement Date (the "Original Tenn"). ThereaA:er, this I ,ease will be extended for 3 successive
additional periods of one year coextensive with Lessee's fiscal year, except for the last such period which may
be less than a full fiscal year, (each, a "Renewal Term") subject to an Event ofNonappropriation as described
                                                       8
herein below in this Section 3.2 and in Section 3.3(a), with the final Renewal Tenn ending on July 9, 2029,
unless this Lease is terminated as hereinafter provided. The Original Tenn together with all scheduled
Renewal Terms shall be refeffed lo herein as the "Scheduled Term" irrespective of whether tlus Lease is
tenninated for any reason prior to the scheduled commencement or tcnnination of any Renewal Term as
provided herein.

         If Lessee does not appropriate funds for the payment of Lease Payments due for any Renewal Tenn
in the adopted budget of the Lessee for the applicable fiscal year (an "Event ofNonappropriation"), this Lease
will tenninate upon the expiration of the Original or Renewal Term then in effect and Lessee shall notify Bank
of such tennination at least ten (10) days prior to the expiration of the Original or Renewal Term then in effect,
whereupon the Lessee shall be released of its obligation to make all Lease Payments due to the Bank after the
close of the fiscal year for which Lease Payment funds were appropriated. Neither an Event of
Nonappropriation nor U1e Lessee's failure to make any Lease Payments for any Renewal Term following an
Event of Nonappropriation shall be deemed an event of default under this Lease.

          SECTION 3.3 Termination. This Lease will terminate upon the earliest of any of the following
events:

                  (a)     upon the expiration of the Original Tem1 or any Renewal Term of this Lease
          following an Event ofNonappropriation;

                  (b)    the exercise by Lessee of any option to purchase granted in this Lease by which
          Lessee purchases all of the Leased Property;

                   ( c)   a default by Lessee and Bank's election to tenninatc this Lease under Article VII
          herein; or

                     ( d)   the expiration of the Scheduled Term of this Lease, the Lessee having made payment
          of all I ,ease Payments accrued to such date.

          SECTION 3.4 Lease Payments.

                   (a)    Time and Amount. During the Term of this Lease and so long as this Lease has
          not terminated pursuant to Section 3.3, the Lessee agrees to pay to the Bank, its successors and
          assigns, as annual rental for the use and possession of the Leased Property, the Lease Payments
          ( denominated into components of principal and interest) in the amounts specified in Exhibit A, to
          be due and payable in arrears on each payment date identified in Exhibit A (or if such day is not a
          Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) specified in Exhibit A (the "Lease Payment
          Date").

                   (b)      Rate on Overdue Payments. If the Lessee fails to make any of the Lease Payments
          required in this Section, the Lease Payment in default shall continue as an obligation of the Lessee
          until the amount in default shall have been fully paid, and the Lessee agrees to pay the same with
          interest thereon, to the extent permitted by law, from the date such amount was originally payable
          at the rate equal to the original interest rate payable with respect to such Lease Payments.

                  (c)      Additional Payments. Any additional payments required to be made by the Lessee
          hereunder, including but not limited to Sections 4.1, 5.3, and 7.4 of this Lease, shall constitute
          additional rental for the Leased Property.

        SECTION 3 .5 Possession of Leased Propertv Upon Te1mination. Upon termination of this Lease
pursuant to Sections 3.3(a), or 3.3(c), the Lessee shall transfer the Leased Properly to the Bank in such
manner as may be specified by the Bank, and the Bank shall have the right to take possession of the Leased

                                                        9
Property by virtue of the Bank's ownership interest as lessor of the Leased Property, and the Lessee at the
Bank's direction shaU ship the Leased Property to the destination in the continental United States designated
by the Bank by loading the Leased Property at the Lessee's cost and expense, on board such carrier as the
Bank shall specify.

          SECTION 3.6 No Withholding. Notwithstanding any dispute between the Bank and the Lessee
including a dispute as to the failure of any portion of the Leased Property in use by or possession of the Lessee
to perfom1 the task for which it is leased, the Lessee shall make all Lease Payments when due and shall not
witliliold any Lease Payments pending the final resolution of such dispute.

         SECTION 3.7 Lease Payments to Constitute a Current Obligation of the Lessee. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Lease, the Lessee and the Bank acknowledge and agree that the obligation of the
Lessee to pay Lease Payments hereunder constitutes a current special obligation of the Lessee payable
exclusively from current and legally available funds and shall not in any way be construed to be an
indebtedness of the Lessee within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation or requirement
applicable to the Lessee concerning the creation of indebtedness. The Lessee has not hereby pledged the
general tax revenues or credit of the Lessee to the payment of the Lease Payments, or the interest thereon, nor
shall this Lease obligate the Lessee lo apply money of the Lessee to the payment of Lease Payments beyond
the then cuffent Original Tenn or Renewal Term, as the case may be, or any interest thereon.

        SECTION 3 .8 Net Lease. This Lease shall be deemed and construed to be a "net-net-net lease" and
the Lessee hereby agrees that the Lease Payments shall be an absolute net return to the Bank, free and clear
of any expenses, charges or set-offs whatsoever, except as expressly provided herein.

         SECTION 3.9 Offset. Lease Payments or other sums payable by Lessee pursuant to this Lease
shall not be subject to set-off, deduction, counterclaim or abatement (excluding the termination effect of
any Event of Nonappropriation) and Lessee shall not be entitled to any credit against such Lease Payments
or other sums for any reason whatsoever, including, but not limited to: (i) any accident or unforeseen
circumstances; (ii) any damage or destruction of the Leased Property or any part thereof; (iii) any restriction
or interference with Lessee's use of the Leased Property; (iv) any defects, breakdowns, malfunctions, or
unsuitability of the Leased Property or any part thereof; or (v) any dispute between the Lessee and the Bank,
any vendor or manufacturer of any part of the Leased Property, or any other person.


                                                 ARTICI,E IV

                                                 INSURANCE

          SECTION 4.1 Insurance. Lessee, at Battle's option, will either self-insure, or at Lessee's cost, will
cause casualty insurance and property damage insurance to be carried and maintained on the Leased Property,
with all such coverages to be in such amounts sufficient to cover the value of the Leased Property at the
commencement of this Lease (as determined by the purchase price paid for the Leased Property), and public
liability insurance with respect to the Leased Property in the amounts required by law, but in no event with a
policy limit less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. All insurance shall be written in such forms, to cover such
risks, and with such insurers, as are customary for public entities such as the Lessee. A combination of self-
insurance and policies of insurance may be utilized. If policies of insurance are obtained, Lessee will cause
Bank to be a loss payee as its interest under this Lec1se may appear on such property damage insurance policies,
and an additional insured on a primaiy and noncontributory basis on such public liability insurance in an
amount equal to or exceeding the minimum limit stated herein. Subject to Section 4.2, insurance proceeds
from insurance policies or budgeted amounts from self-insurance as relating to casualty and property damage
losses will, to the extent permitted by law, be payable to Bank in an amount equal to the then outstanding
principal and accrued interest components of the Lease Payments at the time of such damage or destruction
as provided by Section 8.1. Lessee will deliver to Bartle the policies or evidences ofinsuram.:e or self-insurance

                                                        10
satisfactory to Bank, together with receipts for the applicable premiums before the Leased Property is
delivered to Lessee and at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of any such policies. 13y endorsement
upon the policy or by independent instrument fornished to Bank, such insurer will agree that it will give Bank
at least thirty (30) days' written notice prior to cancellation or alteration of the policy. Lessee will carry
workers compensation insurance covering all employees working on, in, or ahout the Leased Property, and
will require any other person or entity working on, in, or about the Leased Property to carry such coverage,
and will furnish to Bank certificates evidencing such coverages throughout the Tenn of this Lease.

         SECTION 4.2 Damage to or Destruction of the Leased Property. If all or any part of the Leased
Property is lost, stolen, destroyed, or damaged, Lessee will give Bank prompt notice of such event and will,
to the extent permitted by law, repair or replace the same at Lessee's cost. If such lost, stolen, destroyed or
damaged Leased Property is equipment, it shall be repaired or replaced within ll1irty (30) days after such event.
If such lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged Leased Property is other than equipment, it shall be repaired or
replaced within one hundred eighty (180) days after such event. Any replaced Leased Property will be
substituted in this Lease by appropriate endorsement. All insurance proceeds received by Bank under the
policies required under Section 4.1 with respect to the Leased Property lost, stolen, destroyed, or damaged,
will be paid to Lessee if the Leased Property is repaired or replaced by Lessee as required by this Section. If
Lessee fails or refuses to make the required repairs or replacement, such proceeds will be paid to Bank to the
extent of the then remaining portion of the Lease Payments to become due during the Scheduled Term of this
Lease less that portion of such Lease Payments attributable to interest which will not then have accrued as
provided in Section 8.1. No loss, thcfl, destruction, or damage to the Leased Prope1ty will impose any
obligation on Bank under this Lease, and this Lease will continue in full force and effect regardless of such
loss, theft, destruction, or damage. Lessee assumes all risks and liabilities, whether or not covered by
insurance, for loss, theft, destruction, or damage to the Leased Property and for injuries or deaths of persons
and damage to property however arising, whether such injury or death be with respect to agents or employees
of Lessee or of third parties, and whether such damage to property be to Lessee's property or to the property
of others.


                                                  ART1CLE V

                                                 COVENANTS

        SECTION 5.1 Use of the Leased Property, The Lessee represents and warrants that it has an
immediate and essential need for the Leased Property to carry out and give effect to the public purposes of
the Lessee, which need is not temporary or expected to diminish in the foreseeable future, and that it expects
to make immediate use of all of the Leased Property.

        The Lessee hereby covenants that it will install, use, operate, maintain, and service the Leased
Property in accordance with all vendors' instmctions and in such a manner as to preserve all warranties and
guarantees with respect to the Leased Property.

         The Lessor hereby assigns to the Lessee, without recourse, for the Tenn of this Lease, all
manufacturer warranties and guaranties, express or implied, pertinent to the Leased Property, and the Lessor
directs the Lessee to obtain the customary services furnished in connection with such warranties and
guaranties at the Lessee's expense; provided, however, that the Lessee hereby agrees that it will reassign to
the Lessor all such warranties and guaranties in the event of tcnnination of this Lease pursuant to Sections
3.3(a) or 3.3(c).

          SECTION 5.2 Interest in the Leased Propcrtv and this Lease. Upon expiration of the Tenn as
provided in Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(d) hereof, all right, title and interest of the 13ank in and to all of the Leased
Property shall be transfeITed to and vest in the Lessee, without the necessity of any additional document of
transfer.

                                                        11
SECTION 5.3     Maintenance, Utilities, Taxes and Assessments.

         (a)     Maintenance; Repair and Replacement. Throughout the Term ofthis Lease, as part
of the consideration for the rental of the Leased Property, all repair and maintenance of the Leased
Property shall be the responsibility of the Lessee, and the Lessee shall pay for or otherwise arrange
for the payment of the cost of the repair and replacement of the Leased Property excepting ordinary
wear and tear, and the Lessee hereby covenants and agrees that it will comply with all vendors' and
manufacturers' maintenance and warranty requirements pertaining to the Leased Property. In
exchange for the Lease Payments herein provided, the Bank agrees to provide only the Leased
Property, as hereinbefore more specifically set forth.

         (b)     Tax and Assessments; Utility Charges. The Lessee shall also pay or cause to be paid
all taxes and assessments, including but not limited to utility charges, of any type or nature charged
to the Lessee or levied, assessed or charged against any portion of the Leased Property or the
respective interests or estates therein; provided that with respect to special assessments or other
governmental charges that may lawfully be paid in installments over a period of years, the Lessee
shall be obligated to pay only such installments as are required to be paid during the Tenn of this
Lease as and when the same become due.

         (c)     Contests. The Lessee may, at its expense and in its name, in good faith contest any
such taxes, assessments, utility and other charges and, in the event of any such contest, may permit
the taxes, assessments or other charges so contested to remain unpaid during the period of such contest
and any appeal therefrom; provided that prior to such nonpayment it shall furnish the Bank with the
opinion of an independent counsel acceptable to the Bank to the effect that, by nonpayment of any
such items, the interest of the Bank in such portion of the Leased Property will not be materially
endangered and that the Leased Property will not be subject to loss or forfeiture. Otherwise, the
Lessee shall promptly pay such taxes, assessments or charges or make provisions for the payment
thereof in form satisfactory to the Bank.

SECTION 5.4 Modification of the Leased Property.

(a)      Additions, Modifications and Improvements. The Lessee shall, at its own expense, have the
right to make additions, modifications, and in1provcments to any portion of the Leased Property if
such improvements are necessary or beneficial for the use of such portion of the Leased Property. All
such additions, modifications and improvements shall thereafter comprise part of the Leased Property
and be subject to the provisions of this Lease. Such additions, modifications and improvements shall
not in any way damage any portion of the Leased Property or cause it to be used for purposes other
than those authmized under the provisions of State and federal law or in any way which would impair
the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest components of the
Lease Payments; and the Leased Property, upon completion of any additions, modifications and
improvements made pursuant to this Section, shall be of a value which is not substantially less than
the value of the Leased Property immedic1tely prior to the making of such additions, modifications
and improvements.

(b)     No Liens. Except for Permitted Encumbrances, the Lessee will not permit (i) any liens or
encumbrances to be established or remain against the Leased Property or (ii) any mechanic's or other
lien to be established or remain against the Leased Property for labor or materials furnished in
connection with any additions, modifications or improvements made by the Lessee pursuant to this
Section; provided that if any such mechanic's lien is established and the Lessee shall first notify or
cause to be notified the Bank of the Lessee's intention to do so, the Lessee may in good faith contest
any lien filed or established against the Leased Property, and in such event may permit the items so
contested to remain undischarged and unsatisfied during the period of such contest and any appeal

                                              12
        therefrom and shall provide the Bank with full security against any loss or forfeiture which might
        arise from the nonpayment of any such item, in fonn satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will
        cooperate fully in any such contest.

         SECTION 5.5 Pem1its. The Lessee will provide all permits and licenses necessary for the
ownership, possession, operation, and use of the Leased Prope1iy, and will comply with all laws, rules,
regulations, and ordinances applicable to such ownership, possession, operation, and use. If compliance
with any law, rule, regulation, ordinance, permit, or license requires changes or additions to be made to the
Leased Property, such changes or additions will be made by the Lessee at its own expense.

         SECTION 5.6 Bank's Right to Perform for Lessee. If the Lessee fails to make any payment or to
satisfy any representation, covenant, warranty, or obligation contained herein or imposed hereby, the Bank
may (but need not) make such payment or satisfy such representation, covenant, warranty, or obligation,
and the ammmt of such payment and the expense of any such action incurred by the Bank, as the case may
be, will be deemed to be additional rent payable by the Lessee on the Bank's demand.

         SECTION 5.7 Bank's Disclaimer of Warranties. The Bank has played no part in the selection of
the Leased Property, the Lessee having selected the Leased Property independently from the Bank. The
Bank, at the Lessee's request, has acquired or mTanged for the acquisition of the Leased Property and shall
lease the same to the Lessee as herein provided, the Bank's only role being the facilitation of the financing
of the Leased Property for the Lessee. THE BANK :MAK.ES NOW ARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION,
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE VALUE, DESIGN, CONDITTON, QUALITY,
DURABILITY, SUITABIUTY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR FITNESS FOR THE USE CONTEMPLATED BY THE LESSEE OF THE LEASED
PROPERTY, OR ANY PORTION THEREOF. TIIE LESSEE ACKNO\VLEDGES THAT TI-IE BANK
IS NOT A MANUFACTURER OR VENDOR OF ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE LEASED
PROPERTY, AND THAT TIIE LESSEE JS LEASING THE LEASED PROPERTY AS IS. In no event
shall the Bank be liable for incidental, direct, indirect, special or consequential damages, in com1ection with
or arising out of this Lease, for the existence, furnishing, functioning or Lessee's use and possession of the
Leased Property.

         SECTION 5.8 Indemnification. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Lessee hereby
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Bank, its directors, officers, shareholders, employees, agents,
and successors from and against any loss, claim, damage, expense, and liability resulting from or
attributable to the acquisition, construction, or use of the Leased Property. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Uank shall not be indemnified for any liability resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct
of the Bank.

         SECTION 5.9 Inclusion for Consideration as Budget Item. During the Tenn of U1is Lease, the
Lessee covenants and agrees that it shall give due consideration, in accordance with applicable law, as an item
for expenditure during its annual budget considerations, of an amount necessary to pay Lease Payments for
the Leased Property during the next succeeding Renewal Term Nothing herein shall be construed to direct
or require that Lessee take or direct that any legislative act be done, or that the Governing Uody of Lessee
improperly or unlawfully delegate any of its legislative authority.

         SECTION 5.10 Annual Financial Information. During the Term of this Lease, the Lessee's budget
and    financial statements shall be available at h1tps://www.cottonwoodliei!!hts.utsl1.gov/y0LLr-
~   enm1cnt/finance/budget-tim111cial-rep51rting. The Lessee also shall provide the Bank as soon as
    1


practicable (when they arc available) following the Bank's written request: (i) a copy of the Lessee's final
annual budget for each fi seal year; (ii) a copy of the Lessee's most recent financial statements; and (iii) any
other financial reports the Uank may request from tin1e to time.



                                                       l3
                                                  ARTICLE VI

                                     ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING

         SECTION 6.1 Assignment by the Bank. The parties hereto agree that all rights of Bank hereunder
may be assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, either in whole or in part, including without
limitation transfer to a trustee pursuant to a trust arrangement under which the trustee issues certificates of
participation evidencing undivided interests in this Lease and/or the rights to receive Lease Payments
hereunder, provided that notice of any such assignment, transfer or other disposition is given to Lessee.

        SECTION 6.2 Assignment and Subleasing by the Lessee. The Lessee may not assign this Lease
or sublease all or any portion of the Leased Property unless both of the following shall have occurred: (i)
the Bank shall have consented to such assignment or sublease; and (ii) the Bank shall have received
assurance acceptable to the Bank that such assignment or sublease: (A) is authorized under applicable state
law, (B) will not adversely affect the validity of this Lease, and (C) will not adversely affect the exclusion
from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest components of the Lease Payments.


                                                  ARTICLE VII

                                 EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

        SECTION 7.1 Events of Default Defined. The following shall be "events of default" under this
Lease and the terms "events of default" and "default" shall mean, whenever they arc used in this Lease, any
one or more of the following events:

                (a)     Payment Default. Failure by the Lessee to pay any Lease Payment required to be
        paid herennder by the conesponding Lease Payment Date.

                 (b)      Covenant Default. Failure by the Lessee to observe and perform any warranty,
        covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be observed or performed herein or otherwise with
        respect hereto other than as referred to in clause ( a) of this Section, for a period of 30 days after written
        notice specifying such failure and requesting that it be remedied has been given to the Lessee by the
        Bank: provided, however, if the failure stated in the notice cannot be corrected within the applicable
        period, the Bank shall not unreasonably withhold their consent to an extension of such time if
        corrective action is instituted by the Lessee within the applicable period and diligently pursued unti!
        the default is corrected.

                 (c)      Bankruptcy or Insolvency. The filing by the Lessee of a case in bankruptcy, or the
        subjection of any right or interest of the Lessee under this Lease to any execution, garnishment or
        attachment, or adjudication of the Lessee as a bankrupt, or assignment by the Lessee for the benefit
        of creditors, or the entry by the Lessee into an agreement of composition with creditors, or the
        approval by a court of competent jurisdiction of a petition applicable to the Lessee in any proceedings
        instituted under the provisions of the federal bankruptcy code, as amended, or under any similar act
        which may hereafter be enacted.

         The foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1 are subject to the provisions of Section 3.2 hereof with
respect to an Event of Nonappropriation.




                                                         14
         SECTION 7.2 Remedies on Default. Whenever any event of default referred to in Section 7.1
hereof shall have happened and be continuing, the Bank shall have the right, at its sole option without any
further demand or notice to take one or any combination of the following remedial steps:

                 (a)     take possession of the Leased Property by virtue of the Bank's ownership interest as
        lessor of the Leased Property;

                (b)      hold the Lessee liable for the difference between (i) the rents and other amounts
        payable by Lessee hereunder to the end of the then current Original Term or Renewal Tenn, as
        appropriate, and (ii) the rent paid by a lessee of the Leased Property pursuant to such lease; and

                  (c)     take what ever action at Iaw or in equity may appear necessary or desirable to enforce
        its rights under this Lease, the Security Documents (defined in Section 9.3), the Escrow Agreement
        or as a secured party in any and al I of the I ,eased Property or the Escrow Account hereunder.

                (d)    terminate the Escrow Agreement and apply the proceeds of the Escrow Account to
        the Lease Payments due hereunder.

         SECTION 7.3 No Remedy Exclusive. No remedy conferred herein upon or reserved to the Bank
is intended to be exclusive and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other
remedy given under this Lease or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity. No delay or omission to
exercise any right or power accruing upon any default shall impair any such right or power or shall be
construed to be a waiver thereof, but any such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as
often as may be deemed expedient. In order to entitle the Bank to exercise any remedy reserved to it in this
Article it shall not be necessary to give any notice, other than such notice as may be required in this Article or
bylaw.

         SECTION 7.4 Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses. If either party to this Lease
defaults under any of the provisions hereof and the nondefaulting party employs attorneys or incurs other
expenses for the collection of moneys or the enforcement of performance or observance of any obligation or
agreement on the part of the defaulting party contained herein, the defaulting party shall pay on demand to
the nondefaulting party the reasonable fees of such attorneys and such other expenses so incurred by the
nondefaulting party.

        SECTION 7. 5 Waivcr of Certain Damages. With respect to al1 of the remedies provided for in
this Article VII, the Lessee hereby waives any damages occasioned by the Bank's repossession of the
Leased Property upon an event of default.


                                                AR TTCI ,E VIII

                             PREP AY11ENT OF LEASE PA Y11ENTS IN PART

         SECTION 8 .1 Extraordinary Prepayment From Net Proceeds. To the extent, if any, required
pursuant to Section 4.1 the I ,essee shall be obligated to purchase the Leased Property by prepaying the Lease
Payments in whole or in part on any date, from and to the extent of any Net Proceeds or other moneys pursuant
to Article IV hereof The Lessee and the Bank hereby agree that in the case of such prepayment of the Lease
Payments in prui, such Net Proceeds or other moneys shall be credited toward the Lessee's obligations
hereunder pro rata among Lease Payments so that following prepayment, the remaining annual Lease
Payments will be proportional to the initial annual Lease Payments.

        SECTION 8 .2 Option to Purchase Leased Property. Subject to the terms and conditions of th.is
Section, the Bank hereby grants an option to the Lessee to purchase all or a portion of the Leased Property

                                                        15
by paying on any date a price equal to the portion of the outstanding principal component of the Lease
Payments that is allocable to such portion of the Leased Property that is being so purchased, without
premium, plus the accrued interest component of such portion of the Lease Payments to such payment date.
To exercise this option, the Lessee must deliver to the Bank written notice specifying the date on which the
Leased Property is to be purchased (the "Closing Date''), which notice must be delivered to the l3ank at
least thirty (30) days prior to the Closing Date specified therein. The Lessee may purchase the Leased
Property pursuant to the option granted in this Section only if the Lessee has made all Lease Payments when
due (or has remedied any defaults in the payment of Lease Payments, in accordance with the provisions of
this Lease) and all other warranties, representations, covenants, and obligations of the Lessee under this
Lease have been satisfied (or all breaches thereof have been waived by the Bank in writing).

         Upon the expiration of the Scheduled Term of this Lease and provided that all conditions of the
inuncdiately preceding paragraph have been satisfied ( except those pertaining to notice), the Lessee shall
be deemed to have purchased the Leased Property (without the need for payment of additional moneys) and
shall be vested with all rights and title to the Leased Property.


                                                 ARTICLE IX

                                             MISCELLANEOUS

        SECTTON 9.1 Notices. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices shall be in
writing addressed to the respective party as set forth below (or to such other address as the party to whom
such notice is intended shall have previously designated by written notice to the serving party), and may be
personally served, telecopied, emailed or sent by overnight courier service or United States mail:


Ifto Ban.le                                                 If to the Lessee:

 ZMFU II, INC.                                               Cottonwood Heights City
 One South Main Street, 17 th Floor                          2277 East Bengal Blvd.
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84133                                  Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
 Attention: Olivia Martinez                                  Attention: Scott Jurges

        Such notices shall be deemed to have been given: (a) if delivered in person, when delivered; (b) if
delivered by telecopy or email, on the date of transmission if transmitted by 4:00 p.m. (Salt Lake City time)
on a Business Day or, if not, on the next succeeding Business Day; (c) if delivered by overnight courier,
two Business Days after delivery to such courier properly addressed; or (d) if by United States mail, four
Business Days after depositing in the United States mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed.

         SECTION 9.2 System of Registration. The Lessee shall be the Registrar for this Lease and the
rights to payments hereunder. The Bank shall be the initial Registered Owner of rights to receive payments
hereunder. If the Bank trnnsfers its rights to receive payments hereunder, the Registrar shall note on this Lease
the name and address of the transferee.

         SECTION 9.3 Instruments of Further Assurance. To the extent, if any, that the Bank's interest in
the Leased Property as Lessor under this Lease is deemed to be a security interest in the Leased Property,
then the Lessee shall be deemed to have granted, and in such event the Lessee does hereby grant, a security
interest in the Leased Property and any moneys and investments held from time to time in the Escrow
Account to the Bank, which security interest includes proceeds, and this Lease shall constitute a security
agreement under applicable law. ConcuITently with the execution of this Lease, the Lessee has executed
and delivered to the Bank for filing and/or recording all financing statements, UCC forms, mortgages, deeds
of trust, notices, filings, and/or other instruments, in fom1 reasonably requested by the Bank as being
required under applicable law to fully perfect such security interest of the Bank in the Leased Property

                                                       16
(collectively, "Security Documents"). Attached hereto as Exhibit E are copies of all such Security
Documents. The Lessee will do, execute, acknowledge, deliver and record, or cause to be done, executed,
acknowledged, delivered and recorded, such additional acts, notices, filings and instruments as the Bank
may reasonably require to evidence, reflect and perfect the title, ownership, leasehold interest, security
interest and/or other interest of the Bank in and to any pa1i or all of the Leased Property, promptly upon the
written request of the Bank.

        SECTION 9.4 Binding Effect. This Lease shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon
the Bank and the Lessee and their respective successors and assigns.

       SECTION 9.5 Amendments. This Lease may be amended or modified only upon the written
agreement of both the Bank and the Lessee.

         SECTION 9.6 Section Headings. Section headings arc for reference only and shall not be used
to interpret this Lease.

        SECTION 9. 7 Severability. lf any provision of this Lease shall be held invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, to the extent pem1itted by law, such holding shall not invalidate or
render unenforceable any other provision hereof.

         SECTION 9.8 Entire Agreement. This Lease and the attached Exhibits constitute the entire
agreement between the Bank and the Lessee and supersedes any prior agreement between the Bank and the
Lessee with respect to the Leased Property, except as is set forth in an Addendum, if any, which is made a
part of this Lease and which is signed by both the Bank and the Lessee.

        SECTION 9.9 Execution in Counterparts. This Lease may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same
instrument.

         SECTION 9.10 Arbitration. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute, controversy or claim
arising out of or based upon the terms of this Lease or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be settled
exclusively and finally by binding arbitration. Upon written demand for arbitration by any party hereto,
the parties to the dispute shall confer and attempt in good faith to agree upon one arbitrator. If the parties
have not agreed upon an arbitrator within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written demand, each party
to the dispute shall appoint one arbitrator and those two arbitrators shall agree upon a third arbitrator. Any
arbitrator or arbitrators appointed as provided in this section shall be selected from panels maintained by,
and the binding arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of, the
Ame1ican Arbitration Association (or any successor organization), and such arbitration shall be binding
upon the parties. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall have no power to add or detract from the agreements of
the parties and may not make any ruling or award that docs not confo1m to the tenns and conditions ohhis
Lease. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall have no authority to award punitive damages or any other damages
not measured by the prevailing party's actual damages. Judgmcnt upon an arbitration award may be entered
in any court having jurisdiction. The prevailing party in the arbitration proceedings shall be awarded
reasonable attorney fees and expert witness costs and expenses.

        SECTION 9.11 Applicable Law. This Lease shall be governed by and construed in accordance with
the laws of the State.



                                   [SIGNATIJRE PAGES TO FOLLOW]



                                                      17
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the l3mik has caused this Lease to be executed in its name by its duly
authorized officer, and the Lessee has caused this T,ease to be executed in its name by its duly authorized
officer, as of the date first above written.

                                                                                          ZMFU 11,INC.
                                                                                                 as Lessor



                                                     By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
                                                                                       Authorized Officer




                                                             COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, a Utah
                                                                                 municipality,
ATTEST:                                                                            as Lessee




By:-----------                                       By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                             Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor




                                                    18
                                                     EXHIBIT A

                                                 FIXED RATE

                        LEASE PAYMENT DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE*


1. Interest. Interest components payable on the principal amount outstanding have been computed at the
rnte of four and eleven hundredths' percent (4.11 %) per 8Jlllwn calculated based on twelve 30-day months
during a 360-day year.

2. Payment Dates and Amounts.


          Date            Princ1eal     Coupon                   Interest      Total P+I    Fiscal Total
    07/00/2025
    07/r.8/2027          758 952 92      4 UOY.                15~.457 86      913.4!0 78     913,4J0.7a
    07/00/2028           790 145 39      4 110;,-;             123,264 90      913,410 79     913.410 79
    07/09/2029         2,209 000 00      4110%                  S0.789 90    2 299.789 90   2 299,789.90
          Total       $3,758,098.81                           $368,512.66   $4,126,611.47




                                                        A-1
             EXHIBITB

DESCRIPTION OF THE LEASED PROPERTY


      [Attach Equipment Schedule]




                  B-1
                      EXHIBIT C

        RESOLUTION OF GOVERNING BODY

Attach Resolution 2026-42 of the Lessee's Governing Body]




                           C-1
            EXHIBITD

[Attach Opinion of Lessee's Counsel]




                D-1
                            EXHIBITE

                    SECURITY DOCUMENTS

[Attach Certificales of Title showing ZMFU II, INC. as the lien holder]




                                  E-1
       EXHIBIT G

[Attach Escrow Agreement]
                         Cottonwood         Heights
                         City bm,w11 d,~ <,m;om




                              7.10
                    Resolution 2026-43
        By this resolution, the council will consent to the
manager's appointment of three members of the city's planning
                        comm1ss1on.
                        Cottonwood Heights
                        Cit)' bm,'(efl 1//e r<lll)OI/.!




                                 7.11
                   Resolution 2026-44
      By this resolution, the council will consent to the
manager's appointment of four 1nembers of the city's parks,
            trails and open space co1nmittee.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION No. 2026-44


             A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO APPOINTMENTS TO THE
        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS PARKS, TRA.ILS AND OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, Part 7 of Chapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDNANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.70 l through 2.140.705, establishes the Parks, Trails
and Open Space Committee (the "Committee") as one of the advisory committees for the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

      \VHEREAS, Code §2.140.703(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of up to 15
members, of which at least 13 are City residents, with a demonstrated interest, competence or
knowledge concerning parks, trails and open space; and

        WHEREAS, Code §2.140.104 provides that members of the Conunittee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
"Council"), and that the terms of office shall be three years so that the terms of approximately one-
third of the members expire each year; and

       \VHEREAS, the Council met on 16 June 2026 to, among other things, (a) consider
approving the reappointment of Elise Graham, Michael Menssen and Chris Owen, and the
appointment of Lucy Anderson, to the Committee, and (b) ratify and consent to the ctment
composition of membership of the Committee; and

       \VHEREAS, the Manager has nominated the aforementioned persons to serve on the
Committee commencing on I July 2026 and ending on 30 June 2029 or until their successors are
approved; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City and its residents to give advice and to consent
to such appointments to the Committee as proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of the
aforementioned persons to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice and consents to
the status of the following individuals as all of the current members of the Committee for the terms
of office set forth opposite each name or until their successors are approved:

        Name                           District                        Term Expires

        Ronna Cohen                    2                               30 June 2028
        Matthew Dominesey              2                               30 June 2028
        Melissa Fields                 4                               30 June 2028
        Aline Longstaff                2                               30 June 2028
        Scott Simonsen                                                 30 June 2028
    Lucy Anderson                3                             30 June 2029
    Elise Graham                 4                             30 June 2029
    Lyse Durrant                 (CH Rec. Serv. Area)          N/A
    Michael Menssen              l                             30 June 2029
    Chris Owens                  2                             30 June 2029

    Brad Buswell                  2                            30 June 2027
    Zachery Geiger                2                            30 June 2027
    Chelsea Voss                  3                            30 June 2027

    This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-44, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

    PASSED Ai~D APPROVED effective 16 June 2026.

ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:----------                            By: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzalllle Hyland             Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 16 th day of June 2026.

     RECORDED this_ day of 1Lu1e 2026.




                                            2
