Meeting Requested:       Business Meeting IZI   Work Session IZI   Other □
Public Hearing Needed?   Yes D No IZI Undetermined D
                         Denied D Approved ~ Co,,r;it inued D
CM Approval or Denial
                         CM Signature:---~ - ~


Agendas - Agendas for July 7, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meeting

Meeting Minutes - Meeting Minutes for City Council Meeting on 6/16/2026.


CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING

3.0    STAFF REPORTS
3a.    Public Works Capital Improvement Report Matt Shipp
3b.    Initial Findings for Creek Road Crosswalk Study Matt Shipp
3c.    Bicycle Lane Safety Amendments Discussion UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-1401
       (HB290, 2025) Chief Robby Russo


CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
4.0 Public Hearings
    Public Hearing on Proposed Compensation Increases for Executive Municipal Officers
    for FY 2026-27 Scott Jurges

5.0    Action and Disclosure Items
5.1    Ordinance 468
5.2    Ordinance 469
5.3    Resolution 2026-45
5.4    Resolution 2026-46
5.5    Resolution 2026-47
5.6    Resolution 2026-48
5.7    Resolution 2026-49
5.8    Resolution 2026-50
5.9    Resolution 2026-51
5.10   Resolution 2026-52
5.11   Resolution 2026-53
5.12   Resolution 2026-54
                                ('~         (

                      Cottonwood Heights
                      City !Mttcm, th~ m11yo111




                     AGENDAS

                     July 7, 2026

City Council Work Session and Business Meeting Agendas
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                       WORK SESSION AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Work Session at
approximately 4:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, July 7, 2026, in the Cottonwood Heights
City Council Work Room located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The
public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting
to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the city's YouTube channel.

4:00 p.m.     1.      WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

              2.      REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                      Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion (10-15 min.)

              3.      STAFF REPORTS
                      (Each week the city council and staffprovide informational reports as a method of
                      keeping up on the day-to-day activities ofthe city. This agenda item is set aside to
                      allow council members to ask questions or for staffto bring the council up to date
                      regarding any changes since the report was made)

                      a.      Public Works Capital Improvement Report
                              Public Works Director Matt Shipp (30 min.)
                      b.      Initial Findings for Creek Road Crosswalk Study
                              Public Works Director Matt Shipp (45 min.)
                      c.      Bicycle Lane Safety Amendments Discussion -
                              UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-1401 (HB 290, 2025)
                              ChiefRobby Russo (20 min.)


              4.      REVIEW OF CALENDARS AND UPCOMING EVENTS*
                      a. Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026
                      b. Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside Plaza

                     *For more information, please visit CH. UTAH.GOV and click Community
                      Calendar


               5.    POSSIBLE   CLOSED   MEETING    TO   DISCUSS
                     LITIGATION, PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND/OR THE
                     CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE OR
                     PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL

               6.     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
            NOTICE OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
                      BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights City Council will hold a Business Meeting
beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m., or soon thereafter, on Tuesday, July 7, 2026, in the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 East Bengal Boulevard, Cottonwood
Heights, Utah. The public may remotely view the open portions of the meeting through live
broadcast by connecting to https://www.voutube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams, the
city's YouTube channel.
Persons physically attending the meeting in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments
to the City Council when invited to do so, after completing a speaker comment card. Citizen
comments may also be submitted in writing to the city recorder at citvrecorder@ch.utah.gov by
noon, on the meeting date. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, however,
submitted written comments will be entered into the record and distributed to the City Council,
but will not be read at the public meeting.
Civility and decorum should be applied in all discussions and debates. Difficult questions,
tough challenges to a point of view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements
of a free democracy in action. Public officials and the public are encouraged to refrain from making
belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging comments.

7:00 p.m.      1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion

               2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

               3.0    CITIZEN COMMENTS
                      During each regular city council meeting (specifically excluding work sessions),
                      there will be a period not to exceed sixty minutes for citizen comment. " (Cottonwood
                      Heights Code of Ordinances 2. 30.1 60 (B)) Persons physically attending the meeting
                      in the City Council Chambers may make verbal comments to the City Council when
                      invited to do so by the meeting chair. Persons attending the meeting remotely may
                      not make verbal comments to the City Council during the meeting. Persons attending
                      the meeting remotely, or who do not attend the meeting either physically or remotely,
                      are invited to submit written comments to the City Recorder before Noon. on the
                      meeting date. Written comments that are timely submitted will be admitted into the
                      record of the meeting and distributed to the City Council but will not be read at the
                      public meeting.

               4.0     PUBLIC HEARINGS
               4.1     Public Hearing on Proposed Compensation Increases for Executive
                       Municipal Officers for FY 2026-27.

               5.0     ACTION ITEMS
               5.1     Consideration of Ordinance 468 Approving a General Plan Amendment
                       for 1.08 Acres of Real Property at 2193 East 6525 South from Rural
       Residential to Residential Low Density.
       (This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to change the land
       use map designation of the referenced parcel of realty from Rural Residential to
       Residential Low Density.)
5.2    Consideration of Ordinance 469 Approving the Re-zone of 1.08 Acres of
       Real Property Located at 2193 East 6525 South from RR-1-21 (Residential
       Residential) to R-1-15 (Residential Single Family) and Amending the
       Zoning Map.
       (This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of realty from RR-1-
       21 to R-1-15 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this
       ordinance will only be appropriate if Ordinance 468 approving a general plan
       amendment for the subject realty is previously approved.)
5.3    Consideration of Resolution 2026-45 Awarding a Retiring Police Officer
       His Badge and Approving His Purchase of a Police Firearm.
       (Capt. Scott Ricks is retiring/ram CHPD after 40 years ofpublic service, including
       19 with CHPD. As is customary and as authorized by city code, by this resolution
       the council will award Capt. Ricks his badge and approve his purchase of his
       sidearm).
5.4    Consideration of Resolution 2026-46 Consenting to Appointments to the
       Architectural Review Commission.
       (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Jules Swinson,
       Whitney Sansom Fish, Douglas Rhodes and Nicholas Whittaker to the city's
       Architectural Review Commission).
5.5    Consideration of Resolution 2026-47 Consenting to an Appointment to the
       "Health in the Heights" Advisory Committee.
       (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment ofSheena Winget to the
       city's "Health in the Heights" advisory committee).
5.6    Consideration of Resolution 2026-48 Approving the Appointment of a City
       Attorney.
       (By this resolution the council will give advice and consent to the manager's
       appointment of Todd R. Sheeran as the city's new city attorney, in replacement of
       Wm. Shane Topham, who is retiring from the position after serving as the city's
       city attorney since 2004. The replacement will be effective 3 August 2026).
5. 7   Consideration of Resolution 2026-49 Authorizing Disposal of Unclaimed
       Property and/or Property No Longer Needed as Evidence.
       (This resolution will authorize disposal ofunclaimed property and/or property no
       longer needed as evidence currently being held by CHPD).
5.8    Consideration of Resolution 2026-50 Approving and Ratifying a Drone
       Show Perfonnance Contract.
       (This resolution will approve and ratify the city's entry into a contract whereunder
       Open Sky Productions, LLC will stage a drone show on 18 July 2026 as part ofthe
       city's 2026 "Butlerville Days" community celebration).
5.9    Consideration of Resolution 2026-51 Approving Performance Contracts
       for 2026 Butlerville Days.
       (By this resolution the council will approve the city's ently into various contracts
       whereunder the following musical groups will perform at the city's 2026
       "Butlerville Days" event: Johnny Utah, House of Rock, Surf Daddy,
       dadandtheduplicates, Andrea Sharp country band, Holidae Band, Alex Elggren
       Band, and QC Band).
5.10   Consideration of Resolution 2026-52 Approving an "Event Contract" with
       Custom Events, Inc. for 2026 Butlerville Days.
       (This resolution will approve the city's entry into a contract whereunder Custom
       Events, Inc. will provide "inflatables," games and similar at the 2026 "Butlerville
                          Days" community celebration).
                 5 .11     Consideration of Resolution 2026-53 Approving and Ratifying a Fireworks
                           Display Contract and Purchase Order for 2026 Butlerville Days.
                          (By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry into agreements
                          whereunder Lantis Productions, Inc. will stage afireworks display on 18 July 2026
                          as part of the city's 2026 "Butlerville Days" event).
                 5 .12     Consideration of Resolution 2026-54 Consenting to an Appointment to the
                           Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee.
                           (This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Micki Harris to the
                           city's Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory committee).

                 6.0       CONSENTCALENDAR
                 6.1       Approval of the minutes for the City Council Work Session and Business
                           Meetings of June 16, 2026.

                 7.0       ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
                                       PUBLIC COMMENT PROCEDURE
     During each City Council business meeting {specifically excluding work sessions), there will be a period
     not to exceed 60 minutes for citizen comment. (Code of Ordinances 2.30.160 (B)). Any person wishing to
     comment on any item not otherwise on the agenda for public comment may address the City Council during
     the Public Comment period. Any person wishing to comment during the Public Comment period shall
     request recognition by the Mayor and upon recognition, approach the microphone and state their name, state
     if they are a resident of Cottonwood Heights and either provide their address or their Council district; and
     then address the City Council. Any person wishing to comment shall limit their comments to no more than
     three (3) minutes unless more or less time is specified by the Mayor. Citizen groups who are present will be
     asked to appoint a spokesperson, who shall limit their comments to no more than five (5) minutes unless
     more or less time is specified by the Mayor. All comments shall be directed to the City Council. No person
     addressing the City Council during the comment period shall be allowed to comment more than once during
     that comment period. Speakers should not expect any debate or dialogue with the Mayor, City Council or
     City Staff during the meeting.
     The City Council may choose to limit the amount of time allotted to public comment on a specific issue. In
     such cases, special procedures for determining who will be allowed to speak and the order of such speakers
     will be determined by the Council. In the interest of time and those attending the meeting live, submitted
     written comments will be entered into the record, distributed to the City Council but not read at the public
     meeting.


On Thursday, July 2, 2026, a copy of the foregoing notices was posted in conspicuous view in the ji-ont foyer of the
Cottonwood Heights City Offices, Cottonwood Heights, Utah. The agendas were also posted on the City's website at
www.ch.utah.gov and the Utah Public Notice website at '111p:l l {J11111.U1ah. gu1 ·.

DATED this 2nd day ofJuly 2026                                 Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder

The city building for this meeting is accessible. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, p eople with
disabilities may make requestsfor reasonable accommodation or assistance by notifying the City Recorder at 801-944-
7021 or reconlff{i_Lc/1.wah.go,·. at least two business days before the meeting, or by calling Relay Utah at 711.
                          ( ~~'

               Cottonwood Heights
               Ciry illtu.wn th~ ran)-OIIJ




         MEETING MINUTES

City Council Meeting Minutes on 6/16/2026
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
HELD TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2026, AT 4:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL WORK ROOM LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                           Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                           Member Ellen Bin-ell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic _D evelopment Director, Jim Spung; IT
                           Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim;
                           Consultant, Frank Nakamura; Consultant, Kerri Nakamura

1.0     WELCOME - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Work Session to order at 4:00 PM.

2.0     REVIEW OF BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA - Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion.

Mayor Bennion revi<twed the Meeting Agenda and stated that the Pledge of Allegiance would be
followed by recognition of Ted Boyer for his years of service on the Salt Lake City Public Utilities
Advisory Board and the UFA Quarterly Report presented by Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim. After
citizen comments, Lucy Anderson and Dan Mills would be recognized for serving their maximum
terms on the Planning Commission.

Mayor Bennion thanked City Attorney, Shane Topham, for preparing the 11 Action Items. Item
7.1 was con_sideration of Resolution 2026-34 adopting the Interim Budget. Item 7.2 was
consideration of Resolution 2026-35 adopting the Property Tax Impact Schedule. Item 7.3 was
consideration of Resolution 2026-36 Adopting a Proposed Tax Levy.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, City Manager, Jared Gerber, rep01ted
that the first three items would be included on the June 17, 2026, City Council Meeting Agenda.
The rate may need to be modified as some annexation properties may not have been included in
Salt Lake County calculations. He advised the Council to vote on the item during the Business
Session as the June 17 meeting would only be held if the rate changed.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges, explained that the base Certified Tax Rate for the cun-ent fiscal
year generated $8.154 million in revenue. The rate received for 2026 would only increase revenue
to $8.163 million, and he was concerned that annexations had not been included. He spoke with
Chief Deputy Assessor, Tyler Andrus earlier that day, who believed that both the Creek Road West
and Water Vista Way annexation were included in the base numbers. Mr. Jurges believed the tax
rate could be artificially low, but that information would be verified at a meeting the next day. A

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      1
low Ce1iified Tax Rate would impact all revenue moving forward. Mr. Andrus had confirmed that
the Tavaci annexation was not included, which affected both the City and those residents as their
property tax bills should be reduced.

They were working to detennine how to correct the matter, but it was complicated by the fact that
the County Assessor, County Auditor, and Utah State Tax Commission are all involved in the
process. The outcome of his meeting in the morning would determine whether a City Council
meeting was required in the evening or if the Board of Equalization must become involved. All
residents of annexation areas may need to be communicated to as well.

Council Member Hyland was pleased to hear that the C~eek Road West and Water Vista Way
annexations were included. Mr. Jurges stated that they_ b-elieved the annexations were included,
but that not yet been verified. The rate would be verified prior to tax notices being sent out in mid-
July, and he would have more information after his meeting with the County.

Consultant Frank Nakamura stated that he had spoken with the Utah State Tax Commission. They
confirmed that the deadline is extended by 14 aays if the final _Certified Tax Rate is not received.
The law was not clear regarding receiving an incorrect rate, but they believed the extension would
still apply and were waiting for confirmation on that fact. Tax Commission staff interpreted the
law to mean that being provided with an incorrect rate because the taxable valuation was incorrect
was akin to not being provided with the rate in a timely ~anner, but they were waiting for
confirmation from their director. He recommended that the City Council adopt the provided rate
in case it was correct. If adjustments were necessary, the Board of Equalization would be involved
in ensuring that the City receive~ the required additiona1 $3.5 million in revenue. Riverton had a
similar issue that was adjusted through the Boara of Equalization. Consultant Kerri Nakamura
indicated that the City was lucky Mr. Jurges caught the issue early, as most entities find the error
much later in the year.

Mr. TQQ!iam asked if there was any utility in continuing the budget items until the matter was
resolved, as amending the budget would require noticing of another public hearing. Ms. Nakamura
stated that the City has untiDune 30 to adopt the Interim Budget, but the Ce1iified Tax Rate must
be adopted by_June 22. Mr. Nakamura added that the Property Tax Impact Schedule could also
be delayed. Their advice was to adopt everything during the Business Meeting and post notice of
the June 17 special meeting in case the rate needed to be changed. The worst-case scenario was
that the rate was incorrect, in wbich case the Council would have 14 additional days to adopt the
correct rate. If the provided rate was correct, no further action was needed. If the actual rate was
lower, that could be addressed at the August 11 meeting, but a higher rate needed to be adopted by
the deadline.

Council Member Hyland stated that it would be a lot of work for Staff to amend the budget and
other documentation for a revote and asked if it would be more prudent to continue the items to
the June 17 meeting. Council Member Newell indicated that the meeting would only be required
if necessaiy. Mr. Topham stated that his concern was about amending the Inte1im Budget, as that
would require a public hearing and seven days' p1ior notice. Mr. Nakamura clarified that the
Interim Budget is required as part of the Trnth in Taxation process and does not require a public
hearing.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ __ __ _

                                                      2
In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges confitmed that am1exations
should be treated as new revenue and not included in calculations for the Certified Tax Rate. If
they were included, the rate was artificially low, which would impact revenues moving forward.
He would know whether the June 17 meeting was required by 10:00 a.m.

After further discussion, it was decided that the Council would vote on all items during the
Business Meeting. If a meeting was required the following day, it would only be to adopt the new
Certified Tax Rate.

Item 7.4 was consideration of Resolution 2026-37 approving and ratifying a bid and awarding a
construction contract for the Staker Way drainage improvements and 2700 East and De Ville Drive
roadway improvements project. In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland,
Public Works Director, Matt Shipp confinned that tlie project would correct the puddling issue on
2700 East near Butler Elementary School, as w~ll as similar problems on De Ville Drive. Council
Member Hyland stated that children had had tg walk through puddles or on ice to get to school,
and she appreciated that the issue would be resol\fed.

Item 7.5 was consideration of Resolution 2026-38 approving and ratifying a bid and awarding a
construction contract for the 3000 East & Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail crosswalk project. Mayor
Bennion reported that the project was already funded and did not affect the FY2027 budget.

Item 7 .6 was consideration of Resolution 2026-39 approving an amendment to a Transportation
and Land Use Connection Agreement through W~satch Front Regional Council ("WFRC"). In
response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Community and Economic Development
Director, Jim Spung reported that the General 1>1an modifications that were discussed in 2025
resulted in appro~imately $35,00_0 in additional work for the consultants, $13,000 of which would
be paid by the WFRC. The agreement would amena the contract to reflect the additional costs.
They City's portion was already budgeted and paid~so no budget adjustment was required. Mayor
Bennion stated that completing the General Plari update was a high priority for the City.

Item 7.7 was consideration of Resolution 2026-40 approving a consulting agreement for an
analysis of the "Old Mill" structure. Mayor Bennion stated that the selected consultant was well-
qualified, with a lot of relevant experience. Council Member Hyland appreciated that they will
consider various options for the structure.

Item 7 .8 was consideration ofResolution 2026-41 approving entry into a vehicle repurchase option
agreement with Garff Enterprises, Inc. for Police and Public Works vehicles and associated
Equipment. Item 7.9 was consideration of Resolution 2026-42 approving enhy into a
lease/purchase agreement with Zions Bancorporation, N.A. for the lease of Police and Public
Works vehicles and associated equipment.

Item 7.10 was consideration of Resolution 2026-43 consenting to appointments to the Planning
Commission. Item 7.11 was consideration of Resolution 2026-44 consenting to appoinhnents to
the Parks, Trails and Open Space ("PTOS") Committee. In response to a question raised by
Council Member Birrell, Mr. Gerber reported that the three Planning Commission appointments

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      3
would be new Commissioners, but the PTOS members were re-appointees. Mr. Spung stated that
there were three remaining vacancies on the PTOS Committee.

Mayor Bennion reported that the final item was the Consent Calendar, approving minutes of the
May 19, 2026, and June 2, 2026, City Council Work Session and Business Meetings.

3.0     REPORTS

        3.1     Public Utilities Advisory Board. Ted Boyer.

Mayor Bennion stated that Ted Boyer had served on the Salt Lake City Public Utilities Advisory
Committee for 11 years and would be reporting on what he had learned in that time. Mr. Boyer
stated that Mayor Bennion had asked him to repori on the committee's composition and duties and
provide an overview of water rates.                    -

The Public Utilities Advisory Committee has no decision-making power with the exception of
specific easement matters. Volunteer members serve four-year terms and can be reappointed for
one additional term, with a provision allowing members to continue serving until a replacement is
found. Members represent various 9emographics including residential, commercial, government,
schools, etc., and some like himself repre~ent water customers who live in Millcreek, Holladay,
and Cottonwood Heights. They provide advice to Salt Lake City Public Utilities Director, Laura
Briefer, Mayor Mendenhall, and the Salt Lake City Council on rates and capital expenditures. Salt
Lake City Public Utilities _provides water, sewer, stonnwater, and street lighting for Salt Lake City
residents, as well as culinary water for Cottonwood Heights, Millcreek, and Holladay. Ms. Briefer
and many long-term agency employees have cQnsiderable experience, including certifications in
specialty areas.

During his career, Mr. Boyer had been in charge of three State agencies, including the Utah
Division of Real Estate and Utah Department of Commerce. He retired as chairman of the Public
Service Commission, which financially regulates monopoly utilities like Rocky Mountain Power
and Enbridge Gas, and was familiar with rate making and design.

Mr. Boyer reported that it was a time of great challenge for Salt Lake City and all cities. Principal
challenges are growth,_inflation, and aging infrastructure. Much of the city's infrastructure is over
50 years old and far beyond its useful life expectancy, and large capital expenditures were required
to bring it up to cun-ent standards. A small amount of 100-year-old clay pipe was still present in
the system. The water reclamation plant could no longer meet volume demands due to growth,
particularly in the nmihwest quadrant, and had struggled to meet federal water quality regulations
for lead, zinc, and other materials. They detennined that the con-ect approach was to demolish the
plant and build a new one at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. The new plant was almost
completed. However, the Big Cottonwood Canyon and Salt Lake City metropolitan plants were
also 50 years old. An interconnection line was being installed on Nutree Drive to connect the Big
and Little Cottonwood lines in the event of catastrophic failure or plant shutdown.

Council Member Birrell stated that her understanding was that the project was to bring a line down
from the Big Cottonwood Canyon plan to the water treatment plant. Mr. Boyer clarified that they

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      4
were two separate projects. The interconnection line comes down the canyon and goes south
through the cemetery and will allow them to switch between plants if necessary.

Mr. Boyer reported that rate revenue was insufficient to cover service costs and establish a reserve
fund. Salt Lake City historically did not have a reserve fund to cover replacement costs, which
had created a situation where they had old equipment that needed to be replaced but no funds to
do so. The agency had saved approximately $150 million by repurposing materials from the old
reclamation plant and done a good job of budgeting over the past five to 10 years. Rates had
increased as anticipated. The 2025 budget was $764 million; 2026 was $421 million, and 2027
was anticipated to decrease to $343 million. However, that did not factor in replacement costs for
the Big and Little Cottonwood Canyon plants. Another challenge was that rates are set on a cost-
of-service model, which charges customers the actual cost of providing services. Salt Lake City
was looking at different alternatives to cover the shortfall including Impact Fees, property taxes,
and rate or fee increases.                               -

Mr. Boyer discussed the qualifications necessary to serve as his replacement on the Public Utilities
Advisory Committee. They must be a resident of Cottonwood Heights, Millcreek, or Holladay
who. Familiar with utilities, ratemaking and design would be helpful but was not necessary. They
should have problem-solving skill~ and be able to work well with other members who have
differing priorities. They must attendm.onthly committee meetings and occasional other meetings.
It was a non-compensated, volunteer position.

Residents of Cottonwood Heights pay 35% more for culinary water than Salt Lake City residents.
When he was first appolnted to the committee, he asked for the rationale behind the surcharge.
They explained that it was due to legacy costs for water rights, infrastructure, etc. After he
continued to press the subject, the agency hired Raftelis to review the surcharge for appropriateness
in 2018. They determined that many agencies charge a surcharge to customers who live outside
their boundaries due to legacy and other ~osts. For example, Salt Lake City owns all culinary
water Jacilities in Cottonwood Reights, • so they bear the legal responsibility to repair or
replacement them, ensure compliance and adequacy of service, etc. They also have the obligation
to repay debt and bear all insurance risks. It is more cost-effective for Cottonwood Heights to
purchase water than to create its own infrastructure and buy new water rights. Salt Lake City
followed American Water Works Association revenue requirements in setting the surcharge, and
he had concluded that it was reasonable.

Mayor Bennion thanked Mr. Boyer for his years of public service. He had served the Public
Utilities Advisory Committee so well that Salt Lake City did not want to let him go. His attendance
was timely, as Mr. Gerber, Mr. Shipp, and Mayor Bennion, along with leadership from Millcreek
and Holladay, recently met with Salt Lake City Public Utilities to discuss project governance and
planning.

Council Member Hyland asked why Cottonwood Heights does not have voting rights with the
utility. Council Member Birrell stated that Salt Lake City Public Utilities is not a service disttict.
Mayor Bennion repo1ied that governance would continue to be a topic of discussion. Mr. Boyer
stated that they listen to committee members, and an example of that was when they hired a
consultant to review the surcharge.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      5
Council Member Birrell commended Mr. Boyer for donating his time and expertise to the
community for so many years.

        3.2     America250. Micki Harris.

Administrative Services Director, Barbara Higgins, thanked Micki Harris for her effo1is on the
celebration. She had been very creative with the event's small budget.

Ms. Harris reported on the City's America250 celebration. "Dear America" letters had been
collected from all districts and were now on display in the City Hall lobby. She encouraged the
City Council to read the letters. Residents' experiences were all over the board, and the letters
provided insight into what they are talking about at their dinner table. One young resident wanted
shorter school days, cleaner water fountains, no war, and-free personal bodyguards "at your earliest
convenience." An 87-year-old resident reflected on what kind of America was being created and
whether it was worth her father's sacrifice in World War II.

The nationwide Potluck party was scheduled to occur on July 5. However, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints would be fasting on that day. She encouraged anyone who can attend
a potluck on that day to do so, but City residents already know their neighbors. Cottonwood
Heights organizers threw a party the previous week with a taco truck and dunk tank.

The four America250 events were Dear America, which was completed; Red, White, and Bloom;
Neighborhood Hero; and America's Potluck. Neighborhood Hero would begin in August, and she
encouraged residents to nominate their Neighborhood Hero using the online nomination form.
Ms. Harris would be installing signs around the community to encourage nominations. Nominees
would then be celebrated at a star-spangled finale at Butler Middle School on November 12, 2026.
After a slide show, the event will end with a community singalong of three pattiotic songs. The
slideshow video woulcl also be displayed in the City Hall lobby. Ms. Harris then reviewed the
Amenca250 website and nomination process.

Council Member Birrell stated that Golden Hills would be holding a block party on July 5 and
asked if they could install signage and cones. Mr. Gerber reported that street closures would
require a special event permit. Council Member Holton stated that he had been through that
process. The process wa~ simple, but every homeowner on the affected street must consent.

Ms. Hanis asked the Council to forward any Red, White, and Bloom nominees to the committee.

        3.3     JustServe. Joan Lake.

The JustServe City program was introduced. It is a global volunteerism program and free digital
platform designed to connect individuals and organizations as a centralized hub where nonprofits,
local community events, faith-based groups, and govenunent agencies can post volunteer needs
while individuals, families, and groups can search for projects that match their skills, interests, and
availability.   It does not discriminate based on race, religion, gender, ethnicity, or sexual
orientation in posting projects or recruiting volunteers.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      6
In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Lake repo1ied that JustServe is
nonprofit organization sponsored by the Church, which also recrnits volunteers to help with
organization administration. There is no fee to become a JustServe City.

Ms. Lake reported that she posted a turtle shelter vest project on the JustServe website that
garnered a lot of support. The program believes in spreading hope and unity through volunteerism,
as motivated individuals and communities can build united societies. The JustServe City program
is operated in conjunction with the free JustServe platfonn to link individuals and communities
with local service projects. The program strives to collaborate with cities to advocate service and
volunteerism, recognize cities for their efforts, and celebrate individuals for their efforts to bring
hope and support to others.

The following qualifications were required:

1. Create and publish city volunteering proclamation.
2. Email the signed proclamation to JustServe.
3. Encourage community members to volunteer, share volunteer opportunities, and recognize
   individuals who make a difference in the community through service.

Ms. Lake repo1ied that she would leave more information for the Council to review, including
details on the Hero Award and Global JustServe Award. The Hero Award recognizes individuals
in the community who demonstrate an exceptional commitment to volunteering and have made a
significant impact t~ough their service. Awardees must serve or reside within the city and be an
outstanding volunteer who contributes to the improvement of their community as detennined by
the city. Cities can consider factors such as number of volunteer hours or projects, efforts to
encourage others to volunteer, and providing transfonnative service that impacts the community.

Being <:le$ignated as a J1::1stServe City would:

    •   Recognize the attitude of Cottonwood Heights.
    •   Create or promote an environment of unity within the community through service and
        volunteerism done actively by listing volunteer opportunities.
    •   Encourage unity and City values through inclusive and community-wide service projects
        and events.
    •   Provide transformative service that impacts the community.
    •   Post City events that need volunteers on the JustServe website.
    •   Suppo1i partnerships between civic nonprofit and faith-based organizations.
    •   Make residents aware of community programs that need volunteers.
    •   Create exposure on the City website for service oppmiunities within the community.
    •   Recognize and celebrate individuals for selfless effmis.
    •   Offer good public relations at no cost.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      7
Ms. Lake stated that communities are unified through common goals. As Margaret Mead said,
"Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed,
it is the only thing that ever has."

In response to a question from Council Member Birrell, Ms. Lake stated that she was working to
establish a JustServe service group at Brighton High School, and they were currently looking for
a teacher to sponsor and lead the group.

4.0       STAFF REPORTS

          4.1    Interim Budget Adoption- Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Mr. Jurges repo1ied on changes to the Budget since the last City Council Meeting.

The final certified property tax revenue amount was $8,218,846.

      •   Included in the above was new growth of $55,288, $5,288 higher than the Tentative
          Budget.
      •   Impacts from annexations was not included.
      •   The current combined total change was a $94,712 reduction in property tax revenue from
          the Tentative Budget.
      •   The base Certified Tax Rate was 0.001268, a decrease from the previous rate of 0.001300.
          The rate would increase to 0.001808 to provide the $3.5 million in additional property tax
          revenue.

Mr. Jurges reported that he added information to the document to minor the Property Tax Impact
Schedule. Because $3.5 million of budgeted revenues were dependent on passing the tax increase
on August 11, related expenses must be restricted in the interim. If the revenue was altered or not
approved, the amounts would need to be adjusted accordingly.

Based on the above, the General Fund balance was projected to increase by $126,056, with a
budgeted ending balance of $4.126 million on June 30, 2027, or 12.8% ofrevenues. There were
no changes to the City's other funds .

Mr. Jurges reported that he anticipated more clarity regarding the Certified Tax Rate after his June
17 meeting, and they would detennine next steps at that time.

Council Member Hyland asked if the document being reviewed was what citizens would reference
in reviewing the budget increase. Mr. Jurges confirmed that it would be available until the detailed
130-page Interim Budget document was updated. The current document includes the draft Budget
Policies and Fund summaries. Mr. Gerber added that the existing document would be included in
the final Budget Book that is typically released in fall or early winter. In response to her follow-
up question, Mr. Gerber confinned that the next public hearing on the property tax increase would
be on August 11, but citizens could comment dming the Citizen Comment period at any meeting.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      8
Mr. Jurges reported that the Property Tax Impact Schedule was a primary focus of recent changes
to State Law. It states that the Certified Tax Rate would increase from 0.001268 to 0.001808 to
generate the additional $3.5 million in revenue. Revenue would increase from $8,218,846 to
$11 ,718,846. The actual calculated difference was 42.57% on both residential and commercial
properties.

Staff had originally calculated co1mnercial taxes on an average value of $1 million. However, data
generated on the Utah State Tax Commission website forces the average commercial prope1ty to
be the same value as the average residential property. On an average $850,000 residence, the total
property tax would be $21.04 per month or $252.45 per year. On a business of the same value, it
would be $38.25 per month or $459.00 per year.

The Property Tax Impact Schedule lists the different departments and specific line items that
would be affected and their budgets with and without the increase. The portions of each item that
would not be funded unless the tax increase took effect are also specified. Below each department,
a high-level description is provided to indicate the impacts of not funding the tax increase.

If the full property tax increase was not approved, it would create the following impacts:
     • In the General Government budget, the primary impact would be to Information
         Technology, with $734,505 that would not be funded.
     • In Public Safety, $1,569,926 would not be funded for Police and $209,180 for Fire. A
         negative adjustment of $530 for Code Enforcement was also indicated due to associated
         changes in insurance costs.
     • The Public Works Department budget would see a decrease of $308,939, plus an additional
         $190,000 in contracts.
     • A total of $159,525 would not be funded in Community and Economic Development.

Mr. Jurges reported that if a smaller tax increase was approved, the City Council would need to
decide which items would not be funded.
                             -
Council Member Hyland asked if additional savings had been realized which could decrease the
required amount. Mr. Jurges reported that the projected year-end General Fund balance was only
12.8% ofrevenues, and the Budget Policy sets a target of 15% to 25%. The actual amount may
be closer to 15% due to under-expenditures. However, the budgeted ending fund balance was
similar to 2018 but a much lower percentage of revenues.

Mr. Jurges reported that in fiscal year 2018/2019, the total debt service transfer was $1,737,957,
including both building and vehicle debt service. General Fund expenditures were $16,737,586.
The debt service to expenditures ratio was 10.38%. In the following years, the lowest ratio was
9.64% and the highest was 11 .45%. The draft policy recommends that it be no higher than 15%
and aims to eliminate transfers for one-time and capital expenditures that can potentially skew the
calculation. Audio-visual improvements at City Hall were included in the 2026/2027 calculations,
but the overall impact of one-time expenditures was minimal.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      9
In response to a question from Council Member Hyland, Mr. Jurges clarified that approximately
$300,000 in one-time audio-visual equipment costs was included in General Fund expenses, not
debt service. Debt service costs had been steady over the past two years but would increase slightly
in 2027/2028 due to Police and Public Works vehicle costs. The upcoming budget year would be
the last year of debt service on the existing snow plow fleet.

Council Member Holton asked if any additional revenues were expected. Mr. Jurges stated that
under the existing fee and tax structures, he did not anticipate many near-tenn changes. Properties
must be occupied by January 1 for properties taxes to be collected, so the Gravel Pit and Town
Center would not generate revenue for at least one to two years. Sales tax revenue may outperfonn
projections, but he did not anticipate additional revenue due to growth. Approximately $100,000
to $ 150,000 will be generated by the three new annexations. Another annexation was possible,
but it would generate minimal property tax revenue.

Council Member Hyland stated that the City Co_!lllcil committed to a five-year plan, and the Budget
Committee will help will policies. The comments she had received ranged from demands to not
increase taxes at all to requests to please do what is necessary to take care of the City. Former
Council members had told her that if the tax increase would prevent the need to increase taxes for
five years, they could support it.

Council Member Holton stated that residents need to be shown the long-term vision so they can
buy in, and it is hard to gain their supp01t without those guarantees. If that vision had been in
place in the past, different decisions may have been made.

Mayor Bennion stated that she attended a recent District 4 town hall in Council Member Birrell's
stead. For the first 50 minutes, citizens only talked about traffic and road safety. She had to ask
them to speak to short-term rentals and the budget, and those present chose to discuss short-tenn
rentals before the budget. Every family in Cottonwood Heights is different, and decisions impact
them differently. She took the property tax increases very seriously, but many citizens believe that
the improvements are needed to address the issues that matter to them and their everyday life.

        4.2     The Budget Officer will Present and Make Available to the Public a Property
                Tax Impact Schedule as a Separate Document from Other Budget Documents
                - Finance Director, Scott Jurges.

Mr. Jurges reviewed the Pr<?perty Tax hnpact Schedule in detail in conjunction with Item.4.1. The
schedule outlines the Certified Prope1ty Tax Rate and associated revenue, which reflects an
increase of 42.57%, and how the increase will impact the average residential and commercial
property in the City. The amounts that would not be funded if the increase was not approved are
also outlined.

If approved, the end-of-year General Fund balance would equal approximately 12.8% of revenues.
Between the compensated absences reserve and minimum required fund balance of 6%,
approximately $2.7 million must remain in the General Fund. The anticipated balance was
approximately $4 million, which left $1.4 million available for approp1iation. However, if the


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      10
balance dropped any lower, the City would have to be very selective about when and how it makes
purchases.

        4.3     Short-Term Rental Discussion - Council Member Suzanne Hyland.

Council Member Hyland reported that the short-term rental ("STR") program was ready, but there
had been some discussion regarding updating policies prior to launch.

STRs had been a topic of discussion since late 2024. In a June 2025 Work Session, the Council
considered only allowing owner-occupied rentals in residential zones, but no policy decisions were
made. Some residents would like them banned, but other communities had tried to do so and
failed.

STRs could be limited in the following ways:

    •   Specific zones
            o Brighton has definable zones; STRs are allowed in the condominiums around
                Solitude, but not allowed in specific neighborhoods.
    •   Owner-occupancy
    •   City or neighborhood caps

A Short-Term Rental Committee was assembled to consider best practices, and infonnation shared
at the 2025 town hall collld be revisited in the upcoming town hall. The Council had discussed
civil enforcement ra!her than criminal and decided to move forward with software implementation
to enforce existing policy and create a map of STR hotspots to help infonn new policies.

Mr. Spung reported that Granicus had pulled data from the various listing platfonns and
consolidated it into a dashboard. He thep reviewed a map created by the City's Geographic
Information Systems ("GIS") specialist that included both Granicus data and City licensing
records." Green dots indicated licensed STRs and red triangles were unlicensed STRs. Yellow
triangles indicated properties listed on STR websites but that require a 30-day minimum stay,
which may be a way to circumvent restrictions. STRs were present throughout Cottonwood
Heights, with 108 licensed and approximately 301 unlicensed rentals.

Now that the data was available, Mr. Spung rec01mnended that the City Council discuss whether
to change policies regarding-where STRs are allowed. They could be allowed in more areas so
more current rentals could be- licensed and brought into compliance, or the City could begin
enforcing current policies and shut down STRs in restricted areas. Once Staff had a clear direction,
they could draft code amendments to facilitate the Council's vision.

Council Member Holton stated that when funding was allocated for Granicus, the initial premise
was to identify illegal STRs that can be brought into compliance, and then discuss further steps
after they become licensed. Mr. Spung stated that the data was only made available the previous
week, and Staff was in the process of reviewing it against City information to identify



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      11
discrepancies. The current regulations were so stiict that he believed less than 15 illegal STRs
could be licensed.

In response to a follow-up question from Council Member Holton, Council Member Hyland stated
that they originally believed there were more illegal STRs in the City. The Canyon Racquet Club
HOA president spoke to the Council and indicated that most condominiums in their development
were operating as STRs. The snapshot provided by Granicus was for summer rentals, not winter,
so the data may not provide a clear picture.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Birrell, Mr. Spung reported that licenses must
be renewed yearly. Council Member Birrell stated that she was surprised at the number of STRs
operating in summer. In response to her follow-up question, Mr. Spung reported that licensed
rentals remain static throughout the year. Unlicensed properties indicated with red triangles are
actively listed on STR platforms. That infonnation changed frequently and was more likely to be
drastically different in winter.

Council Member Birrell was surprised that STRs in single-family residential areas had obtained
licenses. Council Member Hyland indicated that some had been grandfathered in from Salt Lake
County. Mr. Spung reported that current Code required that STRs be in R-2 or higher density
zones.

Mr. Spung reported on the number of STRs in each district.

    •   District 1: 6 licensed, 43 unlicensed
    •   District 2: 1 licensed, 63 unlicensed
    •   District 3: 1 licensed, 77 unlicensed
    •   District 4: 100 licensed, 11 8 unlicensed

Councjl Member Holton asked if the Council should wait until some homes are brought into
compliance prior to reevaluating STR policies. That would allow time to become familiar with
the process and consider how enforcement will be handled. Mayor Bennion stated that that was
the purpose of the discussion. District 4 had 11 8 unlicensed STRs compared to 43 in Distiict 1.
That impacts the entire City, but there is a much greater impact to District 4.

Mayor Bennion stated that five years ago, residents of District 1, which was not in her House
district, requested a meeting to discuss the impact of STRs. Residents had been frustrated by the
situation for a long time. States had passed confusing statutes, including a Utah bill that prohibited
cities from solely using online ads as proof of an illegal STR. That led to cities like Salt Lake City
not allowing any short-term rentals, which created a black market. They tried to enforce one case
with ample evidence, but it went to court. Other cities decided they did not want to be involved in
lawsuits, so there was a lack of enforcement. After meeting with the residents, she drafted a bill
on the issue. However, nothing came of it as it was introduced too late in the session. Julie Davies,
a national expert on short-term rentals, contacted both her and Representative Carol Spackman
Moss regarding their bills, and she had been working with Ms. Davies for over four years.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      12
The problem disproportionately affects gateway areas like Cottonwood Heights. Mayor Bennion
thanked Council Member Hyland and the full City Council for taking the proactive steps to fonn
a Short-Tenn Rental Committee, obtain the Granicus contract, and hold town halls to engage with
the public. She believed that taking immediate action would be impactful for the community.
When Mayor Bennion began meeting with Ms. Davies, her goal was to cap or ban STRs, but Ms.
Davies stressed that the demand is there and they will not go away. However, they can be brought
into compliance. If standards are high enough, their number can be reduced because some owners
will not want to rise to them.

Potential regulations included:

    •   The City could require proof that a STR has bee11 operating for one year so that someone
        could not purchase a home and immediately begin operating as a rental.
    •   Either the property owner or manager must be local and able to respond within 15 minutes.
    •   Both the property owner and manager !11-ust complete a ce1tified educational course within
        60 days.
    •   If the prope1ty has been modified without proper permits, it is ineligible for a STR license.
    •   Limits can be placed on occupancy.
    •   The property operator must have a license at a cost of $800 or another amount specified by
        the Council.

Mayor Bennion recommended that regulations be rolled out in a combined effort with Granicus to
set a clear, high standard. There were at least 400 STRs operating in the City, and up to 500 in
the winter. That mearis 500 homes were not being used by people who live in Cottonwood Heights
and whose children go to local schools, which was disproportionately impacting neighborhoods in
District 4. It also impacted property-values because people pay cash for investment properties can
often offer more than a family.

The recQ__mmended policies could prevent the City from being involved in lawsuits. If STR owners
are offered the ability to obtain a license, they cannot allege that Cottonwood Heights is affecting
their abil1ty to do business. They can also be held to a high standard and expected to solve their
own problems instead of City Police and Code Enforcement officers. After being educated on the
requirements, some property owners may decide to go back to long-tenn rental.

Council Member Birrell asked if any single-family homes being operated as STRs were owner
occupied. Mr. Spung stated that he did not know if that data had been collected, but Staff could
investigate any suspect properties. Council Member Bin-ell thanked Council Member Hyland for
taking the issue on. Prior to her joining the Council, there were discussions about STRs where
homeowners indicated that they could only make their mortgage payments by offering their home
as an STR during ski season. Many families rent rooms or their basement dming that time. She
was cmious about the breakdown between full STRs and owner-occupied rentals. Mr. Spung
repo1ied that the data could likely be extrapolated. Whole-house rentals are different from renting
a bedroom, and there are ways to make that distinction in zoning ordinance and have different
rules and standards for each situation. Council Member Bin-ell remarked that Airbnb has specific
categories, although she understood that there were also other platforms.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      13
Mayor Bennion stated that the City can set caps based on the current numbers or lower. If the
issue was not brought under control, it would only get worse.

Council Member Hyland asked about ways to raise standards. If non-tandem, off-street parking
was required, that would disqualify almost every STR. Council Member Birrell stated that it is
very common for a STR to designate a parking space in the driveway. Council Member Holton
stated that it may be different for an owner-occupied home with a basement or accessory dwelling
unit ("ADU"). In that case, the homeowner and their spouse are likely parking in the garage. They
may have designated a parking space in the driveway, but in _practice the renter is likely parking
on the street. Council Member Hyland remarked that they were likely not at the stage of debating
individual policy points and clarified that her request was for examples of ways to raise the bar.

Mayor Bennion stated that requiring a local contact is a primary way to raise standards. Some
online platforms do not encourage good practices. Two years ago, one platform announcing a
push for multiple-bedroom rentals in single homes, similar to a bed and breakfast but with no
onsite manager. The City can place a limit orone rental contract per dwelling unit. Requiring a
local operator who can respond within 15 minutes is very important. Some platforms allow
international ownership of STRs, and police end up dealing with problems because no one
responds. Limits on occupancy are also important. If someone has a large home that will fit 25
people, they should apply for a lodging license as that is not appropriate for a STR. Those types
of restrictions are common sense, but the)' are also harsh enough that some people will choose to
open their rental business elsewhere. It is a business, and it should be operated accordingly.

Council Member Hyland recommended that monthly tax reports be required. Mayor Bennion
agreed. Ms. Davies help_ed her understand that th~ platforms require owners to remit tax payments
directly to them, but that creates a slush fund for the platform because taxes are only submitted to
states quarterly. Council Member Hyland stated that Airbnb allows the operator to check a box
indicating whether they will remit taxes directly, so they could be collecting taxes but not remitting
them because they are operating illegally and the City is not following up. Mayor Bennion stated
that requiring a fmm to be submitted di~ectly to the City could allow them to audit tax receipts and
ensure that all taxes are being remitted.

Council Member Holton stated that the Utah State Tax Commission issued lump-sum payments
and did not provide specific data on the actual addresses submitting the payments. A recent
Garfield County audit determined that years' worth of taxes were not remitted to the State. In
response to his question, Mayor Bennion clarified that she was working with a national expert who
verified that the City can set the restrictions and require tax reporting for each individual STR.
Council Member Hyland indicated that regular repmts can be a requirement of the Short-Term
Rental License.

Mayor Bennion stated that it would take time and education to infonn the public that the City is
open to licensing high-level, quality STRs. Once as many properties as possible are brought into
compliance, the Council can discuss whether to cap licenses at their cunent levels or slightly lower
to ensure that the license is coveted and prope1ty owners maintain a high standard. Council
Member Birrell remarked that Balboa Island in California has a years-long waiting list for STR

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      14
licenses and the licenses transfer with property ownership. Mayor Bennion indicated that the
Council could decide whether to allow transfers or not.

Council Member Hyland stated that citizens had also spoken with her about owner-occupied STRs,
but Ms. Davies had indicated that it is very hard to obtain an STR rider on homeowners insurance
policies. She agreed that a high bar should be set but struggled with where STRs should be
allowed. A town hall was scheduled for June 30, and the Short-Tenn Rental Committee would be
meeting again to discuss any changes in public sentiment since the 2025 town hall. Like many
residents, she does not want STRs in her neighborhood. However, when she goes on vacation, she
prefers to rent an Airbnb so her family can be together.

Council Member Holton asked about enforcement. Cities like Provo take the approach that
nothing is legal. Balboa Island is high-end and restrictive, with along wait list. Both areas likely
have noncompliant STRs. There were more STRs available on July 4 in Cottonwood Heights
District 1 than Provo. The data should prove which approach was best, but either strategy requires
enforcement.

Council Member Newell was also concerned about enforcement and the required manpower.
Mayor Bennion agreed that it would initially require Staff time to review each application for
compliance.

Mr. Spung stated that cun-ent code had strict geographic requirements, which was a ban-ier to
compliance. The licensing process was also very arduous and time-consuming. Staff must send
notices to neighbors and a public meeting is required. The entire process takes four to six weeks.
The goal was to cleai-ly identify where STRs would be allowed and set standards to ensure that
they are of high quality. The administrative process could then be streamlined to make it as easy
and seamless as possible. 'fh.e fee shoukl be commensurate with the time and expense required.
Regarding enforcement, instead of mailing 300 notices at once, Staff could send five letters per
week, for example, to ensure that they are not overwhelmed. Granicus has the functionality to
send letters only to specific properties. Staff selects the properties and letter type, and they send
it to encourage compliance. However, the City should not begin sending letters until the internal
processes are clarified and streamlined.

Council Member Holton stated that it was a very big policy decision. There was a long list of
noncompliant STRs, and the Council was discussing whether to just make them legal. He asked
how they would detennine which properties should and should not be made legal. The City was
expe1iencing a school closu~e, which was a very emotional process, and the Council needed to
work to ensure that schools stay open. He asked if data was available on how STR policies affect
long-term rentals. Council Member Hyland disagreed with the premise that school closures are
STR related. Infrastructure was created for a baby-boom generation that did not mate1ialize.
Council Member Holton agreed but did not want to make the situation worse.

Council Member Newell stated that Cottonwood Heights could end up being a transient
community if it did not have enough pennanent housing for residents. Mayor Bennion remarked
that a recommended policy was to prohibit STRs in aparhnents and affordable housing, but she
believed some apmiments in the City cun-ently had STRs.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      15
Council Member Holton indicated that there was an STRs in one of the most affordable areas of
the City on Highland Drive. It was a dealbreaker for him if the policy would displace families that
are renting. Mr. Spung noted that currently STRs were only allowed in condominiums and
duplexes, which are typically more affordable, and not allowed in single-family homes.

Mayor Bennion stated that the majority of illegal STRs were single-family homes. However, she
had met with people who can only stay in their home by renting out their basement. A new policy
could allow them to obtain a license, but they may not be able to obtain insurance. Council
Member Hyland stated that they should be required to show proof of insurance. Council Member
Holton stated that a home in his neighborhood rents their basement during ski season, and it did
not cause issues for the neighborhood. They live in the home and are respectful of their neighbors,
and they added on to their driveway to create dedicateo parking. It works in many instances, but
owner occupancy is key.

Mayor Bennion stated that the primary demand was for entire single-family homes. Those STRs
were already in the community. Allowing them would not create something that was not already
there, but it would create a pathway to compliance. She liked the idea of a staggered rollout.
Individuals homeowners could be given 60 days to obtain a license. As STRs in the City decrease
because some properties do not obtain a license, the Council can then cap the number of licenses.

Council Member Hyland agreed that the numbers would decrease. She had heard concerns about
properties being converted to STRs, but long-term rental is a completely different business model
with fewer headache_§. She did hot believe many would be converted from long- to short-term.
However, they neede~ to avoid incentivizing people to purchase properties quickly in order to
obtain a license. Mayor Bennion agreed that licenses should only be open to people with existing
STRs.

Council Member Hyland stated that the fee for noncompliance is $650 per day, which should apply
if prop~rties are not licensed within 60 days. The software takes screenshots to prove that
properties are operating as STRs. Council Member Holton asked what prevented the City from
doing that immediately. Council Member Hyland indicated that the software had not yet been
implemented. They were also moving from criminal to civil enforcement, which would allow
Cottonwood Heights to retain the fees. Fees paid to the Holladay Justice Court stay in Holladay
to offset prosecution costs.
                                -
Council Member Hyland reported that the Short-Tenn Rental Committee recommended allowing
STRs on arte1ial and collector roads, and only owner-occupied STRs in single-family zones.
Council Member Birrell was opposed to that suggestion because the only transit in the City is
along aiterial roadways and it would be imprudent to encourage STRs in those areas.

Council Member Holton stated that more data would be helpful. There may be more owner-
occupied STRs in District 1 because he did not believe it was a prime rental location like District
4. Mayor Bennion stated that residents of District 1 had asked her to take care of the STR problem.
Council Member Holton asked if Granicus could provide information on how many were whole


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      16
homes versus owner occupied. Mr. Spung reviewed the Granicus dashboard, which lists bedroom
and bathroom counts, how long the property has been listed, and other information.

Council Member Holton stated that it would be beneficial to begin in a small way because it would
take much longer to develop policy for the entire City. However, he did not know if that would
overcomplicate the matter. Mayor Bennion stated that Ms. Davies recommended that policies
should be set before the tool is rolled out. That creates a clear and clean entry into the process
rather than beginning and then changing it. Just implementing Granicus was a major change.

In response to a question from Council Member Holton, Mayor Bennion agreed that many
residents would like all STRs to go away, just like she did when she first began working on the
matter. However, as people are educated tlu·ough the newsletter~town halls, and other means, they
will see that STRs are already in the neighborhood. There were currently 43 unlicensed STRs in
District 1, and this was a trusted and verified way to decrease those numbers and bring the ones
that are still operating up to a high standard.

Council Member Hyland stated that Granicus has a 24-hour hotline and online complaint filing.
The City can require that property owners respond to complaints within a certain amount of time.
If they do not comply, that is a strike against them. Brighton has a "three strikes, you're out"
policy, which is how they have been able to raise the bar.

Council Member Holton stated that unlicensed STRs may continue to operate, which will come
down to enforcement. He_iisked why enforcement could not begin now. Mr. Spung stated that it
could begin, but that would currently mean telling them all that STRs were not allowed. Council
Member Holton stated Jhat they should determine whether residents want the City to enforce
current regulations or bring more into compliance and also enforce regulations. Mayor Bennion
stressed that Cottonwood Heights is fortunate that a national expert who teaches realtors and
people who operate STRs was willing to work with them free of charge because she would like to
see good-policies. Ms. Davies' advice was that if the City tries to tackle the problem solely through
enforcement and without changing policies, it will not work. It is not practical to try to enforce
STRs ouf of existence.

Mr. Spung reported that the Granicus dashboard included a lot of data. For the one week it had
been operational, it found 13 partial-home rentals and 431 entire-home rentals. Council Member
Hyland added that she found four entire home rentals in the area of District 1 Council Member
Holton had referenced.

Council Member Birrell stated that education and clarity are important. STRs are not going away.
It was the Council's obligation to explain why they were taking these steps after studying the issue
for years. The alternative was to continue with the black market, which does not yield good results.
There will still be problems, but it would be a step in the right direction of more lawful and higher
quality STRs. She believes there are more problems with blight, noise, etc. with long-tenn rentals.

Mayor Bennion recommended that policies under consideration should be shared at the town hall.
Council Member Holton asked if they were considering policies. Council Member Hyland
reconunended that they propose higher requirements and regulations and ask for public input on

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ __ _

                                                      17
where they should be allowed. Council Member Holton stated that residents should be asked if
they are willing to allow STRs in their neighborhood to become compliant and legal if they are
held to a higher standard. Council Member Hyland remarked that the FlashVote survey began by
asking if the respondent is aware of STRs in their neighborhood. During the town hall, it may be
advantageous to zoom in on specific areas of the City where residents may be surp1ised at the
number of STRs.

5.0     REVIEW OF CALENDAR AND UPCOMING EVENTS.

        a.      Short Term Rental Town Hall - Tuesday, June 30th from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00
                p.m. at City Hall in the Community Roo111
        b.      Butlerville Days - July 16, 2026, to July 18, 2026
        c.      Monster Mash/Trunk or Treat - October 22, 2026, at Hillside Plaza

Mayor Bennion reported that the Cottonwood Heights Amateur Radio Club would hold their
annual field day on June 27 and 28 in the City Hall Community Room. This was a great
opp01tunity for teens and young adults to learn more about amateur radio.

6.0     POSSIBLE CLOSED MEETING TO DISCUSS LITIGATION, PURCHASE OR
        LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY, THE CHARACTER AND PROFESSIONAL
        COMPETENCE OR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL,
        OR ANY OTHER PERMITTED PURPOSE FOR CLOSED MEETINGS UNDER
        UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205 OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.

There was no closed meeting.

7.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN the City Council Work Session. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Council.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:41 PM.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026       Approved: _ _ _ __

                                                      18
MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
HELD TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 2026, AT 7:00 PM IN THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS LOCATED AT 2277 EAST BENGAL BOULEVARD,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH

Present:                   Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion, Council Member Matt Holton, Council
                           Member Suzanne Hyland, Council Member Shawn Newell, Council
                           Member Ellen Birrell

Staff Present:             City Manager, Jared Gerber; City Attorney, Shane Topham; Finance
                           Director, Scott Jurges; Police Chief, Robby Russo; Administrative
                           Services Director, Barbara Higgins; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen;
                           Community and Economic _Development Director, Jim Spung; IT
                           Manager, Matt Ervin; Public Works Director and City Engineer, Matt
                           Shipp; Unified Fire Authority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim;
                           Consultant, Frank Nakamura; Consultant, Kerri Nakamura

1.0     WELCOME

Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion called the City Council Business Meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2.0     PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

Council Member Birrell led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0     RECOGNITION.
        Recognition of Ted Boyer for his years ofservice on the Public Utilities Advisory Board.

Mayor Bennion presented the award to Cottonwood Heights resident, Ted Boyer, who had served
on the~Salt Lake City Public Utilities Advisory Committee for 11 years. The nonnal tenn is four
years, but he did such a wonderful job that they had kept him on. Mr. Boyer had led many
professional committees and commissions, including the Public Utilities Commission, and was
very well-qualified to serve. The City was grateful for his service and dedication.

Council Member Birrell stated that Mr. Boyer was her neighbor when she first moved to
Cottonwood Heights, and she was glad to see him receive the recognition that he deserved.

Council Member Hyland stated that she did not realize until that evening how much Mr. Boyer
had done for the City, and she was in awe at the amount of time he had committed to serving
Cottonwood Heights.

Photographs were taken with Mayor Bennion.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      19
4.0       REPORTS.

          4.1     Unified Fire Authority Report -Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim.

United Fire Authority ("UFA") Battalion Chief, Riley Pilgrim presented the Quarter 4 Report for
the period of January 1 through March 31, 2026.

      •    There were 529 total incidents, 77 or 15% of which were emergent.
                o January incidents: 204
                o February incidents: 153
                o March incidents: 172
      •    The most common call types were:
                o Fire
                    ■  Structure fires: 3
                    ■  Cooking/appliance fires: 3
                    ■  Dumpster/other outdoor container fire: 1
                    ■  Trash/rubbish fire: 1
                    ■ Vehicle Fire: 1
                o Top EMS calls were f crr falls and sickness.
      •    The large house fire in an unincorporated area near Creek Road that occmred in April was
           not included in this number. The structure was approximately 25,000 square feet with a
           long driveway. They were able to get one truck to the structure, but other hoses had to be
           run several hundred feet. There was also a wildland fire concern due to its proximity to
           the hillside. Crews were onsite for approximately 36 hours.
      •    Engines responded to 535 total calls, with Station 110 responding to 56.8% and Station
           116 responding to 35%.
      •      Ambulances responded to 392 total calls, 74% from Station 110, 14.8% from Station 126,
           and 7.9% from Station 116. The Station 116 ambulance operates from December until the
           ski resorts close and primarily responds to_calls at the resorts.
      •   -9_0th percentile emergency response time was 07:01 .

Chief Pilgrim reminded everyone about the wildfire risk. All crews are wildland fire trained, and
a wildland engine was located in Cottonwood Heights. Wildland apparatus is cross-staffed on red
flag days, and the fire risk would likely increase in July.

In response to a question raised by Council Member Hyland, Chief Pilgrim stated that typical
response time is between 6:50 and 7:10. They had improved turnout times, but traffic and
commute times could not be controlled. Response time had not fluctuated greatly in his five years,
but he would share specific data at a future meeting. The National Fire Protection Association
standard is six minutes for large metropolitan areas like New York City.

5.0       CITIZEN COMMENTS

Mayor Bennion opened the Citizen Comment pe1iod.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      20
No audio 12:29 to 15:16

Maggie Mills provided updates on upcoming Whitmore Library activities. Mayor Bennion
remarked that the State is struggling to held third graders read at recommended levels. Ms. Mills
reported that the library has a "Level Up" program during the school year to help elementary-aged
children with reading, as well as the "1,000 Books Before Kindergarten" program.

Runar Bowman stated that he heard a portion of the Work Session and was heartened to hear that
infonnation will be made available to the public regarding how the $3 million will be spent. The
increase was huge, over 40%. A County property tax increase was implemented in January, so
residents would have two increases. He asked for details on cost-cutting measures. He was also
concerned about where the money would come from to purchase the Walgreens property at
Hillside Plaza and whether that would mean another property tax increase. He asked for clarity
on whether the increase was high enough to last for five-years or if another would be necessary in
two or three years.

There were no further comments. The Citizen Comment Period was closed.

6.0     RECOGNITION
        Recognition o(Lucv Anderson and Dan Mills for serving the maximum terms on the
        Planning Commission.

Mayor Bennion reported that Lucky Anderson and Dan Mills had served their maximum terms on
the Planning Commi_ssion and provided a great service to the City.

Community and Economic Development Director, Jim Spung expressed his gratitude for their
service. Both Commissioner Anderson and Commissioner Mills had served for six years, which
was a big commitment as the Pl~ing Commission meets one to two times per month for a few
hours at a time to review items that are meaningful to the community and often emotional. They
had been voices of reason and a great example of listening to residents and addressing their
concerns.

Council Member ~irrell acknowledged Commissioner Anderson and Commissioner Mills for
serving tenns as Planning Commission Chair. The community appreciated their knowledge and
dedication. Commissioner Anderson would now be serving on the Parks, Trails, and Open Space
C01mnittee.

Mr. Spung reported that a plaque would be displayed at City Hall celebrating all Planning
Commissioners who had served since the City's inception.

Mayor Bennion presented a certificate of recognition to Commissioner Anderson and photographs
were taken. C01mnissioners Mills was unable to attend.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      21
7.0     ACTION ITEMS

        7.1     Consideration of Resolution 2026-34 Adopting the Interim Budget (the
                "Interim Budget") Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) that is based
                on the Proposed Tax Rate Increase and in Effect for the Period Beginning 1
                July 2026 and Ending After the Date on which the Council, Subject to the
                Requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-919, Adopts a Final Budget for
                Fiscal Year 2026-2027; and Setting Aside, in a Restricted Budget Account, $3.5
                Million of Budgeted Property Tax Revenue.
                (By this resolution, the Council adopts the Interim Budget as required under
                State law for entities proposing an increase to the certified tax).

Mayor Bennion reported that the City Council had the opportunity to discuss the above item during
the Work Session.                                     -

Council Member Hyland stated that the meeting was an example of why the budget must be
increased, as the City Council was sitting in the dark because the audio-visual system was not
working. Infonnation Technology Manager, Matt Irvin was working desperately to repair it. The
City was unfortunately in the position where a lot of things needed to be addressed. She believed
that increase could possibly be lowered to 25% to 30%, but another increase would be required
next year. She appreciated all the work done by elected officials and especially Staff, who had
worked very hard to get this to this point.

Mayor Bennion agre_ed. Staff had been clear with her from their first interactions that the City
Council must face facts. She appreciated all the discussion and hard work on the item.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-34 Adopting the
Interim Budget (the "Interim Budget") Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8) that is based
on the Proposed Tax Rate Increase and in Effect for the Period Beginning 1 July 2026 and Ending
After tlie Date on which the Council, Subject to the Requirements of UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-
919, Adopts a Final Budget for Fiscal Year 2026-2027; and Setting Aside, in a Restricted Budget
Account, $3.5 Million of Budgeted Property Tax Revenue. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-No; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Bi1Tell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion
passed by a vote of 4-to- l.
                               -
        7.2      Consideration of Resolution 2026-35 Adopting the Property Tax Impact
                 Schedule Prepared Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §§59-2-924(8) and 59-2-
                 919(4) and Incorporating the Property Tax Impact Schedule into the Interim
                 Budget as adopted by the Council Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-
                 924(8).
                 (By this resolution, the Council adopts the Property Tax Impact Schedule with
                 updated information as required by Utah law for entities proposing an increase
                 to the certified tax rate).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      22
Council Member Birrell expressed her appreciation for the work that had gone into bringing
transparency to the process. Truth in Taxation is a detailed and daunting process, and she thanked
Staff and the Council for their efforts to ensure that the community understands the City' s situation
and what they were trying to accomplish.

Finance Director, Scott Jurges reported that he would review the Property Tax Impact Schedule to
ensure compliance with Truth in Taxation.

Mr. Jurges:        The Property Tax Impact Schedule shows that the Ce1tified Tax Rate, should we
                   adopt it, would be 0.001268, but with the additional $3.5 million would be
                   0.001808. That generates an extra $3.5 million above and beyond the Certified
                   Property Tax Rate.

                   Like has been referred to before by Runar and others, it's a 42.57% increase on
                   both a residential property and a commercial property. The monthly impact is
                   $21 .04 on an $850,000 average home value, and that's our new home value for
                   the 2026 tax year. Annually, that's $252.45. For a business that does not get the
                   residential exemption, it would be $38.25 and $459 annually.

                   This goes down and it outlines the areas where we would be making reductions
                   in our budgets as we move forward. This is the General Government area. Total
                   reductions in here: $1,062,960. This is a brief desc_ription of the areas where we
                   would be reducing expenditures should we not do the budget adjustment. And
                   then Public Safety, you've got Police, Fire, and Ordinance Enforcement adding
                   up to a total of $1,778,576. And there's a brief description of those funding
                   changes and the impacts if we did not do that. In the Public Works Department,
                   it's a combination of$308,00 and $190,000 for just under $500,000 ofreduction.
                   It's outlined here what the impact of that would be. The Community and
                   Economic Developl!lent area would have $159,525 that would be reduced out of
                   their budget, not to be able to be spent, adding to that total $3.5 million.

                   All of these funds that add up to $3.5 million will be in a restricted account until
                   the time that the property tax either goes through or is altered, and then at that
                   point in time they will be released or changed if the property tax amount changes.
                   This is a required portion, and I can get Runar copies after the meeting. I will
                   make sure you have those as well as the budget write-up. There's a lot of
                   infonnation, and that's available to everybody online. We're glad to print out
                   copies of that to anybody at all times, too.

Council Member Hyland stated that it was important for full transparency to air things out, as most
people will listen to the Business Session. The City had cut eight employees since the beginning
of the year, an 8.5% reduction in its workforce, either by attiition or department reductions. They
also started the budget process with low-hanging fruit. They reorganized Staff by eliminating the
Culture Division. They saved $55,000 on Butlerville Days. They're saving $70,000 by
eliminating the printed newsletter. She thinks they had done a good job, but people do not know

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      23
exactly where to look. They can look at the budget and infographics on the website. The City will
be putting out more information on social media. They want residents to scrutinize and suggest
areas where the City could or should cut back.

She agreed that the high increase should carry the City for five years. If it doesn' t, they shouldn't
be doing it. Otherwise, the Council would scale it back and be doing smaller increases because
the City cannot escape the inflation that has hit nearly every sector of our lives and the economy.
She thanked Mr. Bowman for being present and being interested, and invited public engagement
with the Council to review and reflect on what they want for the City.

Mayor Bennion reported that the Council engaged citizens with the Citizen Budget Review
Committee during March. That was all the time they had given the timeline that Staff is on to
create the budget. Their plan was to continue in the fall, to start anew Citizen Budget Committee
that will be permanent and help the Council by having citizens involve and ensure smaller increase
when necessary. They hope and aim to have no increases for the next five years and will develop
plans to achieve that.

MOTION: Council Member Bin-ell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-35 Adopting the
Property Tax Impact Schedule Prepared Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §§59-2-924(8) and 59-
2-919(4) and Incorporating the Property Tax Impact Schedule into the Interim Budget as adopted
by the Council Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-924(8). The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member
Bin-ell-Yes; Council Member Holton-No; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed by a vote of 4-to-1 .

        7.3      Consideration of Resolution 2026-36 Adopting a Proposed Tax Levy and Rate
                 Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912, on Real Property within the City
                 made Taxable by Law for Fiscal Year 2026-2027, Subject to Further Action
                 as Required by §§59-2-919 and 59-2-924 and directing the City Manager or
                 Designee to Report the Proposed Tax Levy and Rate to the Salt Lake County
                 Auditor andl:he Utah State Tax Commission before 22 June 2026.
                 (By this resolution, the Council adopts a proposed tax levy and rate as required
                 before 22 June 2026, subiect to further action as required by State law including
                 a truth-in-taxation hearing on 11 August 2026 or such date as determined by
                 the Salt Lake County Auditor).
                             ~


Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

Consultant, Frank Nakamura reported that the tax levy was based on information received from
the Salt Lake County Auditor on June 13, 2026 as required by law. The Certified Tax Rate was
based on that infmmation. The proposed Certified Tax Rate exceeded the Certified Tax Rate as it
was intended to increase budgeted revenues by $3 .5 million.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-36 Adopting a
Proposed Tax Levy and Rate Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §59-2-912, on Real Property within
the City made Taxable by Law for Fiscal Year 2026-2027, Subject to Further Action as Required

Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026            Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      24
by §§59-2-919 and 59-2-924 and directing the City Manager or Designee to Report the Proposed
Tax Levy and Rate to the Salt Lake County Auditor and the Utah State Tax Co1mnission before
22 June 2026. The motion was seconded by Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council
Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member Holton-No; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council
Member Newell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed by a vote of 4-to-l .

        7.4      Consideration of Resolution 2026-37 Approving and Ratifying a Bid and
                 Awarding a Construction Contract for the Staker Way Drainage
                 Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements
                 Project.
                 (By this resolution, the Council will approve and ratifv a $259,786.50 bid and
                 award a construction contract to Stapp Construction, Inc. for the work and
                 materials to complete the city's proiect no. 25.009-Staker Way Drainage
                 Improvements and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements Proiect).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-37 Approving and
Ratifying a Bid and Awarding a Construction Contract for the Staker Way Drainage Improvements
and 2700 East & De Ville Drive Roadway Improvements Project. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

        7.5       Consideration of Resolutioa 2026-38 Approving and Ratifying a Bid and
                  Awaraing a Construction Contract for the 3000 East & Big Cottonwood
                  Canyon Trail Crosswalk Project.
                   (By this resolution,~ the Council will approve and ratifv a $298,166.55 bid and
                  award a construction contract to Acme Construction, Inc. for the work and
                  materials to complete the city's proiect no. 006.26-3000 East & BCC Trail
                  Crosswalk Proiect).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Newell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-38 Approving and
Ratifying a Bid and Awarding a Construction Contract for the 3000 East & Big Cottonwood
Canyon Trail Crosswalk Project.. The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote
on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member BiJTell-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.            The motion passed
unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026         Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      25
        7.6      Consideration of Resolution 2026-39 Approving an Amendment to a
                 Transportation and Land Use Connection Agreement Through Wasatch
                 Front Regional Council.
                 (By this resolution, the Council will approve an amendment to the referenced
                 2020 agreement concerning consulting services for an update of the City's
                 General Plan being performed by Landmark Design. The purpose of the
                 amendment is to modifv the scope of work anticipated to be needed to complete
                 the subject general plan update).

Mayor Bennion reported that the amendment would continue work on the General Plan update,
which is a high priority for the City.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE 2026-39 Approving an Amendment to
a Transportation and Land Use Connection Agree?lent Through Wasatch Front Regional Council.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-
Y es; Council Member Bin·ell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes;
Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

        7.7      Consideration of Resolution 2026-40 Approving a Consulting Agreement for
                 an Analysis of the "Old Mill" Structure.
                 (By this resolution, the Council will approve the City's entry into an agreement
                 whereunder Dunn Associates, Inc. will conduct an independent structural
                 integrity assessment and preservation cost study of the historic "Old Mill"
                 structure located at 6851 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road in the City).

Mayor Bennion reported that the City had selected a company to provide an engineering study of
the Old Mill. Dunn Associates, Inc. was a local company with a good plan for the study.

Council Member Birrell stated that the Historic Committee was thrilled the City was thoroughly
considering all options. The Old Mill is one of the only major historic sites in Cottonwood Heights,
and she happy they would determine if there could be some level of preservation.

Council Member Hyland stated that the public should not have to wade through a 249-page packet
to understand the options and how important the decision is. She was grateful for Dunn Associates
as they will look at stabilization, mothballing, partial preservation, seismic retrofit and adaptive
reuse, reconstruction with salvaged stone, and- as the very last resort-documented demolition.
They are a bright light of hope that there is a path forward. She was grateful that the City chose
this path so they could look at all options for the Old Mill.

Mayor Bennion expressed her gratitude for Staffs work in reviewing proposals and helping move
the project along.

MOTION: Council Member Birrell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-40 Approving a
Consulting Agreement for an Analysis of the "Old Mill" Structure. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Birrell-Yes; Council Member


Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026          Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      26
Newell-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

        7.8      Consideration of Resolution 2026-41 Approving Entry into a Vehicle
                 Repurchase Option Agreement with Garff Enterprises, Inc. for Police and
                 Public Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment.
                 (The City's leased fleet of police and public works vehicles is rotated every
                 approximately two years. Because the vehicle lessor (here, Zions Bank/ requires
                 the city to purchase the fleet at the end of the lease term, the city requires the
                 original seller of the fleet (here, Garff Enterprises/ to agree at the time of sale
                 to repurchase the fleet at the end of the lease term, thereby insulating the city
                 from the repurchase risk. This resolution will approve the city's entry into that
                 repurchase agreement).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item v:_as discussed dming the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-41 Approving Entry
into a Vehicle Repurchase Option Agreement with Garff Enterprises, Inc. for Police and Public
Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Newell. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council
Member Newell-Yes; Council Member Birrell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

        7.9      Consideration of Resolution 2026-42 Approving Entry into a Lease/Purchase
                 Agreement with Zions Bancorporation, N.A. for the Lease of Police and
                 Public Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment and Authorizing the
                 Execution and Delivery of all Related Documents and the Taking of All
                 Required Actions.
                 (This resolution will approve the city's entry into the lease ofa new fleet of
                 police and public works vehicles from Zions Bancorporation).

Mayor Bennion reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-42 Approving Entry
into a Lease/Purchase Agreement with Zions Bancorporation, N .A. for the Lease of Police and
Public Works Vehicles and Associated Equipment and Authorizing the Execution and Delivery of
all Related Documents and the Taking of All Required Actions. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member
Birrell-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Council Member Holton-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      27
       7.10       Consideration of Resolution 2026-43 Consenting to Appointments to the
                  Planning Commission.
                  (By this resolution, the Council will consent to the manager's appointment of
                  three members of the City's Planning Commission).

Mayor Bennion reported that two Commissioners had served for six years, and it was the Council's
intent to give other residents the opportunity to have input and be part of the citizen Planning
Commission.

MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-43 Consenting to
Appointments to the Planning Commission. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Holton. Vote on Motion: Council Member Newell-Y~s; Council Member BiITell-Yes; Council
Member Holton-Yes; Council Member Hyland-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.
                                                    -
        7.11      Consideration of Resolution 2026-44 Consenting to Appointments to the
                  Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee.
                  (By this resolution, the Council will consent to the manager's appointment of
                  four members ofthe-City's Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee).

Mayor Bennion thanked Staff for reviewing applications and bringing candidates to the City
Council.

Council Member Birrell stated that the PTOS Committee is an imp01iant group of people who
have deep discussions related to parks, trails, and open space, which are distinctly different things
that require a lot of attention. She thanked everyone who serves. There were still three vacancies,
and she urged interest citizens to apply on the City website.
              -
Council Member Hyla!1d indicated that Lucy Anderson was moving from the Planning
Commission to the PTOS Committee and would continue to serve the community. The Council
was especially grateful for residents who continue to step up.

MOTION: Council Member Bin·ell moved to APPROVE Resolution 2026-44 Consenting to
Appointments to the Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Hyland. Vote on Motion: Council Member Holton-Yes; Council Member
Hyland-Yes; Council Member Newell-Yes; Council Member BiITell-Yes; Mayor Bennion-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.

8.0     CONSENT CALENDAR

        8.1       Approval of the Minutes of the City Council Work Session and Business
                  Meetings of May 19, 2026 and June 2, 2026.

Mayor Bennion reported that minor corrections had been made to the minutes.



Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026           Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                        28
MOTION: Council Member Hyland moved to APPROVE the Minutes of the May 19, 2026, and
June 2, 2026 City Council Work Session and Business Meetings. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Holton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

9.0     ADJOURN CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING

MOTION: Council Member Holton moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Hyland. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.

The City Council Business Meeting adjourned at 7:51 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026   Approved: _ _ __ _ _

                                                      29
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Council Work Session and Business Meetings held on Tuesday,
June 2, 2026.


Tevf Fovbe.s
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved:
                      - -- - - - - -- -




Cottonwood Heights City Council Meeting Minutes for June 2, 2026        Approved: _ _ _ _ __

                                                      30
              Cottonwood Heights
               City b t1U't(11 r/,r hlllJOIII




                         3a.

           STAFF REPORT
Public Works Capital Improvement Report
              Matt Shipp
  Staff Report Memo
 o:             Mayor Gay Lynn Bennion                                                                        From: Matthew F. Shipp, P.E.,
                Cottonwood Heights City Council                                                               Public Works Director/City Engineer
                                                                                                              \.      . .        ... . '     '- , .. .\                                                       }        ~                              "                , .    . -- ...                   .         ...      . .,           ,... ,   ..           .'
                                                                                                              •                                           t                •                                                                              •                                                                                    '


Date: July 7, 2026
                                                                                                              ·-:~':ii,.     <;..,l..l    •   •               •                 •...!
                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                            .   • •     ., ' .:   •   • L< _k,    _   J   _   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '         ,..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • .!    _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '• •        • '   I       .,   Y,.        l     •   _                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '.'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~    ,




Re: Capital Project Budget Discussion and Update
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - .. ,                        -
~~:   ~',.
                       1

             ' ) ••:~ .-1~ ~~,:~' .//:~   ~~   ~!~,--   ,:;~~-:~~i;U{l~i.i: - ~., '·~:~   J,~·:h·'.~- ')~ .~:. ·~.:-~      ~'~   :; . ~-      ~   J       •       -,   •       ·_       •   • t~·   ' ' ~-'       .,..,..,   ..                   - .. ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              •· ··••1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              , ,.:::. •  . . ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .-l   .J       LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·-·
Meeting Requested :                                                    Business Meeting 0                                   Work Session !XI                                                        Other □


Public Hearing Needed?                                                 Yes □       No !XI Undetermined □

                                                                       De n ied □             Ap p roved □                               Continued □
CM Approval or Denial
                                                                       CM Signature:


History Summary: Staff w ill be presenting the capita l improvement project {CIP) budget and status of projects under
construction, committed project s, and fut ure project s for t he FY 2026/2027.
                  Cottonwood Heights
                  Cuy bttuvm 1/,e ranyom




                         3b.

               STAFF REPORT
Initial Findings for Creek Road Crosswalk Study
                  Matt Shipp
Meeting Requested:           Business Meeting O    Work Session lg]   Other D
Public Hearing Needed?       Yes O No lg] Undetermined D
                             Denied D    Approved lg] Continued D
CM Approval or Denial
                                                    P--- -
                                            ?;_'"' -;r
                             CM Signature:_ -;;--


Public Works Director Matt Shipp w ill present the initial findings for Creek Road Crosswa lk Study.
                           ( ~          I


                Cottonwood Heights
                City bnu'fm ti" <'flll)YI/IJ




                         3c.

             STAFF REPORT
 Bicycle Lane Safety Amendments Discussion
UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-1401 (HB 290, 2025)
               Chief Russo
                                r'1\         I



                     Cottonwood Heights
                     City btlllWII tht rflll)YIIU




                              4.0
                PUBLIC HEARINGS
Public Hearing on Proposed Compensation Increases for
     Executive Municipal Officers for FY 2026-27.
                     Scott Jurges
           Cottonwood Heights
           C,ry bt1uvm thr rilll)OIIJ




CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING


                    5.0
          Action Items
         Shane Topham
Tiffan Janzen

From:                     Shane Topham <WST@tophamlegal.com>
Sent:                     Wednesday, July 1, 2026 9:54 AM
To:                       Jared Gerber; Tiffany Janzen
Subject:                  [EXT:]Legislation for July 7th City Council Meeting
Attachments:              WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 468 Approving 2193 East 6525 South General Plan Amendment.pdf; 2196 E
                          6450 S - Land Use Amendment.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Ordinance 469 Approving Rezone of 2193 East 6525
                          South.pdf; 2196 E 6450 S - Zoning Amendment.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-45 Awarding Gun
                          and Badge (Ricks).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-46 Consenting to Appointments to the
                          Architectural Review Commission (ARC).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-47 Approving Health
                          Advisory Committee Appointment.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-48 Approving Appointment of an
                          Attorney.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-49 Approving Disposal of Unclaimed Property or Former
                          Evidence.pdf; March 2025 Fi nished Property List w Photos.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-50
                          Approving Drone Show Performance Contract (2026 BVD).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-2026 BVD-Drone Show
                          Contract (City Clean 6.25.26).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-51 Approving Performance Contracts
                          (2026 BVD).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Butlerville Days--Form Performance Contract (Revised 6.26.26).pdf; WST-
                          Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-52 Approving Custom Events Contract (2026 BVD).pdf; WST-Cottonwood
                          Heights-2025 BVD-Custom Events Base Contract (FINAL 4.22.25).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-2025 Butlerville
                          Days-Amendment to Custom Events Proposal.pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-53 Approving
                          Fireworks Display Contract with Lantis (2026 BVD).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-2023 Butlerville Days-Lantis
                           Fireworks Contract (CLEAN 4.17.23).pdf; WST-Cottonwood Heights-Resolution 2026-54 Approving PTOS Committee
                          Appointment.pdf



Greetings-

Drafts of the following items of legislation scheduled for consideration at the July Th city council
business meeting are attached for your review and comment:

      1. Ordinance 468. This ordinance will amend the city's general plan to change the land use map
         designation of a 1.08 acres parcel of ground located at 2193 East 6525 South from Rural
         Residential to Residential Low Density.
      2. Ordinance 469. This ordinance will rezone the same 1.08 acres parcel of realty from RR-1-21 to R-
         1-15 and will amend the zoning map accordingly. Approval of this ordinance will only be
         appropriate if Ordinance 468 approving a general plan amendment for the subject realty is
         approved.
      3. Resolution 2026-45. This resolution will award Capt. Scott Ricks his badge and authorize his
         purchase of his sidearm for $10, as is typically done for retiring CHPD officers and as is
         specifically authorized by CHC 2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b).
      4. Resolution 2026-46. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Jules Swinson,
         Whitney Sansom Fish, Douglas Rhodes and Nicholas Whittaker to the city's Architectural Review
         Commission. Their initial terms have been staggered to assure that only about half of the ARC
         members' terms of office will expire each year, as provided by ordinance.
      5. Resolution 2026-47. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Sheena Winget to
         the city's "Health in the Heights" advisory committee.
      6. Resolution 2026-48. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Todd R. Sheeran
         as the city's new city attorney, replacing Wm. Shane Topham, who is retiring from the position
         after having served since November 2004 (before the city's January 2005 incorporation). The
         appointment will be effective 3 August 2026.
      7. Resolution 2026-49. CHPD has requested permission to dispose of numerous items of personal
         property that are either unclaimed or no longer needed as evidence, following the statutory
         process. Descriptions of the items also are attached.


                                                                 1
   8. Resolution 2026-50. This resolution will approve and ratify the city's entry into a contract
       whereunder Open Sky Productions, LLC will stage a drone show as part of the city's 2026
        "Butlerville Days" community celebration on 18 July 2026. A copy of the proposed contract also is
        attached, which remains in negotiation as of this writing.
   9. Resolution 2026-51. This resolution will approve and ratify the city's entry into various
        performance contracts where under the following musical groups will perform at the 2026
        "Butlerville Days" event: Johnny Utah, House of Rock, Surf Daddy, dac;landtheduplicates, Andrea
        Sharp country band, Holidae Band, Alex Elggren Band, and QC Band. A copy of the form of
        contract to be used with these providers also is attached because the actual contracts remain in
        negotiation as of this writing.
   10. Resolution 2026-52. This resolution will approve the city's entry into a contract whereunder
        Custom Events, Inc. will provide " inflatables", games and similar at the 2026 "Butlerville Days "
        community celebration. Copies of last year's contract and addendum also are attached because
        the actual contract and addendum for this year remain in negotiation as of this writing; I
        anticipate, however, that this year's contract and addendum will be very similar to the 2025
        versions with just dates, prices, offerings and signers updated .
   11 . Resolution 2026-53. This resolution will approve the city's entry into agreement with addendum
        whereunder Lantis Productions, Inc. will stage a fireworks display show at the 2026 " Butlerville
        Days" event. A copy of the 2023 version of this contract (which is the last time Lantis provided this
        service for BVD) also is attached because the actual contract for this year remains in negotiation
        as of this writing; I anticipate, however, that this year's contract will be very similar to the 2023
        version with just dates, prices, offerings and signers updated.
   12. Resolution 2026-54. This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Micki Harris to the
        Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory committee.

Please contact me as soon as possible if there are any questions or concerns regarding the attachments.

Best regards-

Shane

WM. SHANE TOPHAM I Attorney I TOPHAM LEGAL
4930 Fairview Drive, Holladay, UT 84117
t el+801.808.6325 I .B.i_Q_

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The content of this e-mail is confidential and proprietary and may be attorney-client
privileged. It you are not the intended recipient, please destroy it and not ify: wst@tophamlegal.com .



EXTERNAL ATTACHMENT: Only Open if you trust this sender.




                                                       2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Ciry bt111Ym ,h~ rt111J011J




                                   5.1
                       Ordinance 468
This ordinance will approve amending the city's general plan to
change the land use map designation of the referenced parcel of
  realty from Rural Residential to Residential Low Density.
                                         Published:                                .        .
    Cottonwood Heights                23 June 2026    .... ~.   ·"-.   .   .....       ..   •.   ~   • ~ ": .1;.~~:. .:.. .   •       .. :

     2277 E Bengal Blvd                   Sources:
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121      Utah State AGRC      2196 E 6450 S - Land Use Amendment~
       (801) 944-7000             Salt Lake County
                               Cottonwood Height s                                                                                '     ~l
                                         Published:
     Cottonwood Heights             • 23 June 2026
                                                                         .   '-   •
     2277 E Bengal Blvd                   Sources:
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121      Utah State AGRC     2196 E 6450 S - Zoning Amendment
       (801) 944-7000             Salt Lake County
                               Cottonwood Heights
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO . 468

              AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                    FOR REALTY AT 2193 EAST 6525 SOUTH FROM
                  RURAL RESIDENTIAL TO RESIDENTIAL Low DENSITY

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §I0-9a-101 et seq. , as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality's planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality's legislative body; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality' s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

        WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§ l 0-9a-40 l
through -404, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City")
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the "Plan")
for the City; and

       WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the "Land Use Element") allocating to each parcel of land in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

       WHEREAS, in response to an application by Jordan Brady of Brady Family Trust (the
"Application") to amend (the "Amendment") the Land Use Element affecting the parcel of realty
located at 2193 East 6525 South (the "Property") from Rural Residential to Residential Low
Density, on 3 June 2026, following all required notices, a public hearing was held before the
Planning Commission concerning the proposed Amendment, where citizens were given the
opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the Amendment; and

        WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

      WHEREAS, on 3 June 2026 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the
Amendment; and

       WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving and
adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

     WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
infonnation, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has detem1ined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to amend the Plan by adopting
the Amendment to the Land Use Element as proposed by the Application, and to ratify the Plan,
as so amended, as the City's general plan;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.    At/option of New Plan. The Council hereby adopts the attached
Amendment to the Land Use Element, and hereby ratifies the Plan, as so amended, as the City's
general plan. From and after the effective date of this ordinance (this "Ordinance"), the Plan shall
be deemed amended as specified by the Amendment for all purposes.

        Section 2.     Future Amendment of General Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter further amend
the Plan at any time or from time to time hereafter for any purpose upon recommendation by the
Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and hearings required by the Act.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of th.is Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 468, shall take immediate
effect as soon as (a) the " Development Agreement" of essentially even date herewith (concerning
the Property) between the Property' s Owner and the City is fully executed, delivered and recorded
in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, and (b) this Ordinance is published or posted as
required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City' s Recorder, or such later date
as may be required by Utah statute.

        PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of July 2026.


ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL




By: - - - -- - - -- - -                       B y : - - -- -- -- - - - -- - - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                                 2
                                   VOTING:

                                   Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                   Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                   Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                   Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                   Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 7th day of July 2026.

POSTED this_ day of July 2026.




                                       3
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          City bttu't"m tht tlll lJOIIJ




                                    5.2
                        Ordinance 469
  This ordinance will approve rezoning the referenced parcel of
 realty from RR-1-21 to R-1-15 and will amend the zoning map
accordingly. Approval of this ordinance will only be appropriate
  if Ordinance 468 approving a general plan amendment for the
              subject realty is previously approved.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 469

     AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT
      2193 EAST 6525 SOUTH FROM RR-1-21 (RURAL RESIDENTIAL) TO R-1-15
           (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. § 10-9a-l 01 et seq. , as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality' s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city cow1cil (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "City") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title l9 of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the "Zoning Map"); and

       WHEREAS, on 3 June 2026 the City's plalllling comm1ss1on (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Jordan Brady of Brady Family Trust
requesting the re-zone of a 1.08 acres parcel of real property located at 2193 East 6525 South (the
"Property") from RR-1-21 (Rural Residential) to R-1-15 (Residential Single Family), at which
time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment
concerning the proposed re-zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

        WHEREAS, on 3 June 2026 the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

      WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 7 July 2026 the Council met in regular
meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

       WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Property as specified below;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     Re-zone to R-1-15. The Council hereby re-zones the Property from RR-1-
21 (Rural Residential) to R-1-15 (Residential Single Family).

       Section 2.      Adoption o(Amended Zo11illgMap. The Council hereby amends the City' s
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City's current zoning map for the
Property.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 4.     Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repe"ler. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.     Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 469, shall take immediate
effect as soon as this Ordinance is published or posted as required by law and deposited and
rec~rded in the office of the City's Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of July 2026.

ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:----- - - - - - - -                        By:
                                                    - - - -- - -- - - -- -- - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                           Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                              VOTING:

                                              Gay Lynn Bennion               Yea_Nay _
                                              Matt Holton                    Yea_Nay_
                                              Suzanne Hyland                 Yea_Nay_
                                              Shawn E. Newell                Yea_Nay_
                                              Ellen Birrell                  Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 7th day of July 2026.

       POSTED this _ day of July 2026.




                                                 2
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           Cuy b,mvm tlu m11J'011J




                                  5.3
                      Resolution 2026-45
Capt. Scott Ricks is retiring from CHPD after 40 years of public
    service, including 19 with CHPD. As is customary and as
authorized by city code, by this resolution the council will award
 Capt. Ricks his badge and approve his purchase of his sidearm.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-45

             A RESOLUTION AWARDING A RETIRING POLICE OFFICER HIS BADGE
                   AND APPROVING HIS PURCHASE OF A POLICE FIREARM

      WHEREAS, §2. 150.060 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code") establishes the
procedures for disposal by the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") of its surplus property; and

        WHEREAS, under Code §2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b), the City's city council (the "Council")
may, by resolution following recommendation by the City's chief of police (the "Chief'), award a
retiring City police officer their badge and allow a retiring City police officer to purchase their
sidearm from the City for such consideration as the Council may deem appropriate; and

       WHEREAS, §2.150.060(H)(3) of th.e Code provides that conveyances of equipment under
Code §2.150.060(H) may occur without compliance with the surplusing and sale procedures
applicable to other types of City property; and

        WHEREAS, City police officer Captain Scott Ricks ("Capt. Ricks") is retiring from th:e
City's police department after 40 years of public service, including 19 years with the City as a law
enforcement officer, and desires to obtain his City police badge No. 4 (the "Badge") and his City
police department-issued Kimber Custom TLE .45 caliber sidearm (serial no. KF46285) (the
"Firearm") ; and

      WHEREAS, the Chief has recommended that the Council should award Capt. Ricks the
Badge and allow Capt. Ricks to purchase the Firearm from the City for $10.00; and

       WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, awarding
the Badge to Capt. Ricks and allowing Capt. Ricks to purchase the Firearm from the City for
$10.00; and

       WHEREAS, the Council determined that $10.00 is appropriate consideration for the
Fireann; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the Chiefs recommendation and careful consideration, the
Council has determined that it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the City to award Capt. Ricks the Badge and approve Capt. Ricks' purchase of the Firearm from
the City for $10.00 in accordance with Code §2.150.060(H)(2)(a)-(b);

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

        1.       Capt. Ricks is hereby awarded the Badge; and

        2.       Capt. Ricks' purchase of the Firearm from the City for $10.00 is hereby approved.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-45, shall take effect inunediately upon passage.
    PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.


ATTEST:                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:----------                          By:
                                              - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - -
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                      Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                       VOTING:

                                       Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea _ Nay_
                                       Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                       Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                       Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay_
                                       Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay _

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder on 7 July 2026.

     RECORDED this _      day of July 2026.




                                           2
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          Cuy IHtuYm 1hr r,111,0111




                                  5.4
                     Resolution 2026-46
This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of Jules
Swinson, Whitney Sansom Fish, Douglas Rhodes and Nicholas
  Whittaker to the city' s Architectural Review Commission.
                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2026-46


                      A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO APPOINTMENTS
                       TO THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMISSION

        WHEREAS, section 19.49.020 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE (the "Code")
establishes an "architecrural review commission" (the "ARC') for the city of Cottonwood Heights
(the "City"), responsible for, inter alia, reviewing and making recommendations on all
development, whether commercial or residential, proposed for the City's Gateway Overlay
District; and

       WHEREAS, the Code provides that the ARC consists of at least five regular members and
up to two at-large, alternate members appointed for staggered two-year terms by the City's
manager (the "Manager") with advice and collSent of the City's city council (the "Council"); and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving
and ratifying (a) the Manager' s appointment of .Jules Swinson as a new regular member of the
ARC to replace fonner member Sarah Kovac, who recently resigned to accept a position with the
City's planning commission; (b) the Manager's appointment of Whitney Sansom Fish, Douglas
Rhodes and Nicholas Whittaker as new regular members of the ARC, whose initial terms have
been staggered; and (c) the current composition ofmembersbip of the ARC; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of th,e citi£ens of the City to consent to such
reappoinhnents to the ARC proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the Council hereby ratifies and consents to (a) the reappointments specified above, and (b) the
status of the following individuals as all the members of the ARC as of the effective date of this
resolution for the terms of office set forth opposite each name:

               Name                                         Term Expires

       Jesse Allen                                          1 May 2028

       Whitney Sansom Fish                                  1 May 2028

       Scott Peters                                         l May 2028

       Douglas Rhodes                                       1 May 2028

       Jules Swinson                                        l May 2027

       Niels E. Valentiner                                  1 May 2027

       Nicholas Whittaker                                   1 May 2027
     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-46, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.

ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - -- - - - - - - -              By : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                  Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder on 7 July 2026.

     RECORDED this _        day of July 2026.




                                             2
                       Cottonwood Heights
                        City btmvw rl~ r,111yo111




                                5.5
                   Resolution 2026-47
   This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of
Sheena Winget to the city's "Health in the Heights" advisory
                         committee.
                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2026-47

                        A RESOUJTION APPOINTING A MEMBER OF THE
                      "HEALTH IN THE HEIGHTS" ADVISORY COMMITTEE

       \VHEREAS, Part 8 of Chapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.80 l through 2.140.805, establishes the "Health in the
Heights" public health committee (the "Committee") as one of the advisory committees for the city
of Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

       WHEREAS, Code §2. 140.803(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of at least 12 and
up to 30 members, with a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge concerning physical and
behavioral public health issues; and

       WHEREAS, Code §2.140. l 04 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
"Council"), and that the tem1s of office shall be three years, with the terms of office of the initial
members staggered as necessary so that the terms of approximately one-third of the members expire
each year; and

       WHEREAS, on 17 December 2024 the Council appointed 19 initial members of the
Committee pursuant to its Resolution 2024-76 and thereafter made other appointments to and releases
from the Committee; and

      WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 July 2026 to, among other things, consider (a) appointing
a new member of the Committee, and (b) ratifying and consenting to the current composition of
membership of the Committee; and

     WHEREAS, the Manager desires to Sheena ·winget as a new regular member of the
Committee; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to give advice and consent to such
appointment as proposed by the Manager;

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of the aforementioned
person to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice and consent to the status of the
following individuals as all the current members of the Committee for the terms of office set forth
opposite each name:

                                                                       Term Expires

               Timothy Jahn                                            1 December 2026
               Nathan Malan                                            1 December 2026
               Beatriz Mayorga                                         1 December 2026
               Maggie Mills                                            1 December 2026
               Riley Pilgrim                                           1 December 2026
               Whitney Rosas                                           1 December 2026
            Laura Rosenberg                                     1 December 2026
            Carol Ruddell                                       1 December 2026

            Diane Foster-Burke                                  1 December 2027
            Eva Chan                                            1 December 2027
            Heather Sapiro                                      l December 2027
            Sean Steinman                                       1 December 2027
            Mike Smith                                          l December 2027
            Tammi Sumsion                                       1 December 2027
            Danny Trnjillo                                      1 December 2027
            Chelsey Voss                                        l December 2027

            Lauren Black                                        l December 2028
            Misty Clark                                         1 December 2028
            Isaiah Delpilar                                     1 December 2028
            Susan Edwards                                       l December 2028
            Mary Ann Jensen                                     1 December 2028
            Kenyon Kawa                                         l December 2028
            Danielle LeCourt                                    l December 2028
            Sheena Winget                                       l December 2028

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-47, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.

ATTEST:                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:_ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ __                   By:
                                                - -- - - -- - - - - -- - --
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                          VOTING:

                                          Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                          Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                          Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay _
                                          Shawn E. Newell              Yea_Nay _
                                          Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of July 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of July 2026.




                                                2
                                     ,   ~"':\   I



                            Cottonwood Heights
                            City bttt,'(m rl" r,mJOm




                                    5.6
                       Resolution 2026-48
By this resolution the council will give advice and consent to the
  manager's appointment of Todd R. Sheeran as the city's new
  city attorney, in replacement of Wm. Shane Topham, who is
retiring from the position after serving as the city's city attorney
 since 2004. The replacement will be effective 3 August 2026.
                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2026-48

         A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE APPOINTMENT OF A CITY ATTORNEY

       WHEREAS, the city of Cottonwood Heights ("City") is a city of the third class that was
incorporated on January 14, 2005 under the council-manager form of municipal government
provided for in Laws of Utah 1977, Chapter 48 and has continuously thereafter operated under that
fom1 of government as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-3b-103(6); and

       WHEREAS, under applicable state law (UTAH CODE ANN. 10-3-1226[5], 1977) and city
ordinance (Section 2.030[D], COTTONWOOD HEIGIITS CODE OF ORDINANCES) City's manager (the
"Manager") is required to appoint, with advice and consent of City's governing body (the
"Council"), a qualified person to the office of City's city attorney, with the duties and powers of
City's city attorney being detailed in Chapter 2.110, COTTONWOOD HEIGIITS CODE OF
0RD[NANCES; and

       WHEREAS, Wm. Shane Topham, who has continuously served as City's sole city
attorney since before City's incorporation, is retiring from such position effective 3 August 2026
whereupon he will become City' s city attorney emeritus, necessitating appointment of a new city
attorney; and

        WHEREAS, following a diligent search and selection process, the Manager has informed
the Council tl1at he desires to appoint Todd R. Sheer.an as City's new city attorney effective 3
August 2026 or as soon thereafter as possible based on Mr. Slieeran's departure schedule from his
current employment; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other
things, giving advice and consenting to the appointment of Mr. Sheeran as City's new city attorney
in replacement of Mr. Topham; and

       \VHEREAS, the Council has examined the qualifications of Mr. Sheeran and is otherwise
familiar with him; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City's residents to give advice and to consent to the
appointment of Mr. Sheeran as City's new city attorney effective 3 August 2026 or as soon
thereafter as possible;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of Todd R. Sheeran
as City's new city attorney effective 3 August 2026 or as soon thereafter as possible based on Mr.
Sheeran's departure schedule from his current employment.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-48 , shall take effect immediately upon passage as
provided herein.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of July 2026.
ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __                  B y : - - - - - - - - - - - - - --        -
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea _Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay _
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea _Nay _
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of July 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of July 2026.




                                           - 2-
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         City brru-rm ,J,~ mnJOIIJ




                                 5.7
                  Resolution 2026-49
This resolution will authorize disposal of unclaimed property
and/or property no longer needed as evidence currently being
                       held by CHPD.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-49

          A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
               AND/OR PROPERTY NO LONGER NEEDED AS EVIDENCE

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §§77-1 ld-101 et seq. (the "Lost or Mislaid Property
Chapter") establish the procedures for disposal of lost or mislaid property ("Lost Property") that
comes into the possession of a law enforcement agency; and

       WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. Chapters 77-1 la through 77-l lc (the "Seized Items and
Former Evidence Chapters") (the Lost or Mislaid Property Chapter and the Seized Items and
Former Evidence Chapters are collectively referred to herein as the "Disposal Statutes") establish
the procedures for disposal by a law enforcement agency of seized property and property no longer
needed as evidence in connection with any public offense (collectively, "Evidence"); and

        WHEREAS, the Cottonwood Heights Police Department ("CHPD") has identified various
items of Lost Property and/or Evidence (collectively, the "Property") in its possession that are
subject to disposition as provided in the Disposal Statutes and has requested the city council (the
"Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "City") to acknowledge CHPD's possession of
the Property; to authorize CHPD to dispose of the Property; and to perrni,t the Property or its
proceeds to be applied by CHPD to a public interest use, all as provided in tlie Disposal Statutes;
and

        WHEREAS, in connection with such request, CHPD lias complied with the noticing and
other requirements for such disposition that are specified in the Disposal Statutes; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things,
acknowledging CHPD's possession of the items of Property described on the attached exhibit(s)
(the "List"); authorizing CHPD to dispose of such items of Property; and permitting the Property
or its proceeds to be applied by CHPD to a public interest use, all as provided in the Disposal
Statutes; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing the List, the Council acknowledges CHPD' s possession of
the items of Property listed thereon and, after careful consideration, has determined that it is in the
best interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to authorize CHPD's
disposal of such Property and to permit CHPD to apply the Property or the proceeds thereof to a
public interest use, all pursuant to the requirements of the Disposal Statutes and such additional
noticing and other procedures as CHPD deems appropriate, in its discretion, to assure fairness and
transparency;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Cottonwood Heights city council that
the COlmcil acknowledges CHPD's possession of the items of Property shown on the List;
authorizes CHPD's disposal of such Property; and pennits CHPD to apply such Property or the
proceeds thereof to a public interest use, all pursuant to the requirements of the Disposal Statutes
and such additional noticing and other procedures as CHPD deems appropriate, in its discretion,
to assure fairness and transparency.
    This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-49, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

    PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.


ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:-- - -- - -- - - - -                  By:
                                               - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                     Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion             Yea_Nay_
                                         Matt Holton                  Yea_Nay_
                                         Suzanne Hyland               Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell              Yea _ Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                Yea_Nay _

    DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7 lh day of July 2026.

    RECORDED this _ day of July 2026.




                                            2
                                          PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




Number               Description                 Property & Evidence   Original Department   Proposed Method of   As ts Recommended
                                                      Number                                     Disposition          Bid Value
  1      Misc.clothes, unused                        CH8265-1           Police Property &          Auction          TBT By Auction
         makeup/hygiene products,                                            Evidence                                   House
         wallet, flashlight, electronics, etc.
  2      Brown/Blue Bag                               CH8474-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  3      Backpack, misc. clothes, lock,               CH8728-7          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
         headphones, sunglasses, etc.                                        Evidence                                   House
  4      Leatherman pocket knife                      CH8982-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  5      4 Inch folding knife black handle            CH9017-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  6      Cell phone charger                           CH7711-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auctio_
                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  7      Small empty suitcase                        CH10019-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  8      Watch                                       CH10023-1          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  9      Pink Old Navy hoodie                       CH10023-18          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  10     Charms from bracelet or necklace           CH10023-15          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  11     Gold bracelet with heart pendant           CH10023-14          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House
  12     Gold neck place with single pearl          CH10023-11          Police Property &         Auction           TBT By Auction
                                                                             Evidence                                   House


                                                                                                                           Page 1 of 8
                                PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




13   Glasses                            CH10023-10       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
14   Sunglasses                          CH10023-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
15   Sunglasses                          CH10023-7       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
16   Sunglasses                          CH10023-6       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
17   Small ladies watch                  CH10023-5       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
18   Pink wallet                         CH10023-4       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
19   Digita l camera                    CH10023-16       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
20   Wallet                              CH10106-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
21   Brown wallet                        CH10115-3       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
22   Black wallet                        CH10139-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
23   Wallet                              CH10156-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
24   Large metal white bottle            CH10175-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
25   Bag of misc tools                   CH10175-7       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House
26   RC car                              CH10195-1       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence                        House




                                                                                                 Page 2 of 8
27   White backpack, electronics,        CH10234-1   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     earbuds, wallet, drorne, pins,                       Evidence                     House
     watch, coins
28   Black zippered bag, Pokemon         CH10207-1   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     cards                                                Evidence                     House
29   Multicolored zipper bag,            CH10207-2   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     sunglasses, trading ca rds, bags,                    Evidence                     House
     misc. electronics
30   Hilti UH240-A Cordless Drill        CH10235-1   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
31   Large beach bag, misc. clothing,    CH10250-5   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     ha r dryer, fa lse lashes/nails                      Evidence                     House
32   White purse, charger cords, hair    CH10250-4   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     dye, gloves, misc.                                   Evidence                     House
33   Dewalt DW130 ½" reversing drill     CH10398-1   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
34   M isc. tools/parts in bucket        CH10398-2   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
35   Pocket knife                        CH10420-1   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
36   Black purse, necklace               CH9183-4    Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
37   Silver leatherman                   CH9237-11   Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                          Evidence                     House
38   Ea rbuds                            CH9279-1    Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auct ion
                                                          Evidence                     House
39   Black backpack, wa llet, bags,      CH9308-1    Police Property &   Auction   TBT By Auction
     misc. tools, misc. electr onics,                     Evidence                     House
     gloves



                                                                                           Page 3 of 8
                                                    .                    . .

                                   PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION


                                                       ~


40   Brown purse, earrings, bag             CH9314-5        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                             Evidence Room                        House
41   Drawstring bag, bag, misc.             CH9368-2        Police Property &      Auctio n   TBT By Auction
     electronics, speaker, sunglasses,                       Evidence Room                        House
     multi-tool
42   Knife                                  CH9370-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
43   Tu rqu oise ring                       CH9387-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
44   Clothing items, bags, misc. care       CH9400-3        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     items                                                       Evidence                         House
45   Backpack, charging cables,             CH9434-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     clothes, lock, waterbottle                                  Evidence                         House
46   Apple airpods pro                      CH9498-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
47   Dagne Dover tan colored diaper         CH9507-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     bag, changing pad, bags, burp                               Evidence                         House
     cloths
48   Kitchen knife                          CH9517-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
49   Multi tool                             CH9520-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
50   Black backpack, Nike sneakers,         CH9519-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     clothes                                                     Evidence                         House
51   Gray purse, wallet, tool               CH9556-4        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
                                                                 Evidence                         House
52   Brown diaper bag, formu la             CH9573-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     dispenser, kids clothes                                     Evidence                         House
53   Ear buds, chargers, misc.              CH9640-1        Police Property &      Auction    TBT By Auction
     electronics                                                 Evidence                         House

                                                                                                     Page4 of 8
                                     PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION •




54   Black backpack, gloves, clothes,         CH9628-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     misc. electronics, solar charger                          Evidence Room                         House
55   Black folding pocketknife                CH9639-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
56   Black backpack, bags, batteries,         CH9696-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     misc.                                                     Evidence Room                         House
57   Black backpack, speaker, screw           CH9747-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     driver                                                    Evidence Room                         House
58   Headphones, assorted electronics         CH9803-3        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
59   Assorted tools, knives,                  CH9803-2        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
60   Clothes, microfiber cloths               CH9803-7        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
61   Dewalt tool set                          CH9803-6        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
62   Assorted flashlights                     CH9803-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
63   2 small bags                             CH9803-4        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
64   Assorted glasses                         CH9803-5        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
65   3 knives                                 CH9825-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
66   Silver pocket knife                      CH9829-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
67   Wool cap                                 CH9916-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                         House
68   Marijuana leaf backpack, hat,            CH9888-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     radio, jewelry                                            Evidence Room                         House

                                                                                                        Page 5 of 8
                                    PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




69   Michael Jordan Bulls Jersey             CH9893-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
70   Bolt Cutter                             CH9893-14       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
71   Gray backpack, notebooks, locks,        CH9898-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
     flashlights, misc. electronics                           Evidence Room                       House
72   Black purse, tools, bags, perfume       CH9908-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
73   Backpack, bags, misc. electronics       CH9915-2        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
74   Apple air pods                          CH9947-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
75   Blue/black drawstring backpack,         CH9958-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
     clothes, glasses, tools, care items,                     Evidence Room                       House
     misc. electronics
76   1 set of eyeglasses                     CH9988-8        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
77   .223 magazine                            CH840-5        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
78   Brown leather holster                   CH10260-2       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
79   Hard gun case                           CH10577-8       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
80   Gun cases, hard and soft                CH10577-9       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
81   2 Ruger magazines                      CH10577-10       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House
82   Unknown gu n part                      CH10577-11       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                       House



                                                                                                      Page 6 of 8
                                    PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM ~ MARCH 2025 AUCTION •


                                                         ~~


83   Master lock w ith keys                 CH10577-12       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
84   Handgun case                            CH10812-2       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
85   Black handgun case                      190900203       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
86   Magazines                               160900072       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
87   Magazine                                150400223       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
88   Arrow                                   180800038       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
89   Black/ Green BMX Bike                   CH8265-4        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
90   Dark Blue GT Aggressor Mountain         CH8091-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     Bike                                                     Evidence Room                         House
91   Mens 29" Kent Flexor Model Bike         CH10084-1       Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
92   Black/Blue Trek with extensive          CH9840-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     damage                                                   Evidence Room                         House
93   Bike - missing front wheel, brake       CH9885-1        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     assembly                                                 Evidence Room                         House
94   Timber Ridge camo backpack,             CH6996-3        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     walkie talkies, misc. camping                            Evidence Room                         House
     materials, clothing
95   Blue/yellow bolt cutters                CH6993-4        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                              Evidence Room                         House
96   Gps, Crkt knife, leatherman,            CH6996-6        Police Property &        Auction   TBT By Auction
     magazine                                                 Evidence Room                         House



                                                                                                       Page 7 of 8
                                     PROPERTY & EVIDENCE ROOM - MARCH 2025 AUCTION




97   Pocket knife folding blade 3"            CH8618-1        Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House
98   Black sheath with two knives             CH10040-2       Police Property &      Auction   TBT By Auction
                                                               Evidence Room                       House




                                                                                                      Page 8 of 8
u,   N
....0




........




....N
....
00
       ....U1
N   N
w   0




    N
    """'
w
0
w     w
U'1   N




      w
      w
          o.S \5'-\•"':
         -l.. Q"'·'
                                         . '         .
.,:::.                ..... 'l, "°'')f
                                                                w
         *''                                         ..
                                         ~tt-ttOl H:, • ••::,

0                                           •T   •   m~
                                                           u    ......
         , 11st11                   II UIIIIIII
                                         tl·UUH3




                                                                w
                                                                00
          .i:::i,
          w




          .i:::i,
          .i:::i,




.i:::i,   .i:::i,
00         V'I
u,   u,
w    0




     u,
     ....
                      u,
                      00




                      u,
                      1.0



~--.. _~fst f1 n11¥
       I        #




                      °'0
°'u,




°'°'   °'w
......   ......
         w
°'




......
......




......   ......
00       u,
00
N
     "
     ID




     00
     0




     00
     i-,i,,
00    00
00    u,




00    00
IJ)
      °'




IJ)   00
0     .....
1.0
00
                             ottonwood Heights
                           Ciry b<1t4'(m the m 11yo11s




                                    5.8
                      Resolution 2026-50
     This resolution will approve and ratify the city's entry into
a contract whereunder Open Sky Productions, LLC will stage a
     drone show on 18 July 2026 as part of the city's 2026
          "Butlerville Days" community celebration.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-50

                       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING A
                       DRONE SHOW PERFORMANCE CONTRACT WITH
              OPEN SKY PRODUCTIONS, LLC FOR 2026 BUTLERVILLE DAYS

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving a "Show
Contract" (the "Agreement") with Open Sky Productions, LLC ("Provider") whereunder Provider
would stage a drone show in connection with the City's "Butlerville Days" community event on
or about 18 July 2026; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve and ratify the City's
entry into the Agreement as proposed;                                    •

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Agfeement is hereby approved and ratified, and that the City's mayor
and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of the
City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-50, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - - - -- -- -- - -                      By: - -- -- - - -- - - -- - - -
  Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                          Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea _Nay _
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Ellen Birrell                   Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of July 2026.

       RECORDED this _ day of July 2026.
                          ~ 't'              OPEN SKY
                                             DRONE LIGHT SHOWS

                                                     Show Contract
Open Sky Productions, LLC (the "Company")
Date: May 5, 2026
Project Reference: Cottonwood Heights Butlerville Days 2026
To: Cynthia Thorsen on behalf of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the "Client")


Show Date(s): July 18, 2026
Launch Time: Between 9:45-10:15 pm local time
Show Size: 150 drones
Venue Name & Address: Butler Park,
Venue Address: 7500 S 2700 E, Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121



1) Company Services:
    a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement the Company wm provide the following services (the "Services"):
         i) FM flight authorization
         ii) Launch site check (as applicable)
         iii) Show design with up to 6 custom animations approved by Client
         iv) RC Willey logo sponsorship added to s!how
         v) Programmed music soundtrack
         vi) Duration of show: 13-14 minutes
         vii) Set up, installation, dismantle of equipment
    b) The Company will be responsible for providing the Spec,ial Flight Operations Certificate from the FM and any
        other necessary flight authorizations, if required (the "Company Permits"). All pennits, licenses and
        authorizations other than the Company Pem1its will be the sole responsibility of the Client. The Company
        timely shall advise the Client concerning tihe permits, etc. to be obtained by the Client.

2) Client Responsibilities:
    a) Access and permission to use the location specified for the show, in such form as the Company may require,
       in order to obtain the Company Permits and for event coordination, which must be provided at least seven (7)
       days prior to the scheduled event date.
    b) An appropriate site for the Services to be performed. Approval and confirmation of the Latitude and Longitude
       for the event site must be confirmed by the Client in writing upon signing this Agreement, as the site location
       and characteristics may influence the design and performance of the Services.
    c) All reasonably necessary security services to ensure the safety of Company equipment and personnel.
    d) All permits, licenses, and authorizations necessary for the event and Services, save and except for the
       Company Permits, subject to Section 1(b), above.

3) Price Includes:
    a) The Services described above;
    b) The Company Permits;
    c) Company travel to and from the event location; and
    d) (i) General liability insurance in the coverage amount of at least $2.0 Million and general aviation liability
       insurance in the coverage amount of at least $5.0 Million, naming the Client; Cottonwood Heights Parks &
       Recreation Service Area; Unified Fire Authority; The Richard L. Guthrie Skate Park; and any other parties
       designated by the Client as additional insureds, and (ii) workers compensation coverage complying with
       applicable laws.
    e) Workers' compensation insurance coverage of at least $1 .0 Million.

4) Price and Payment Terms:
    a) Price for Services: $12,500 (Final Price)= $7,500 (the Client)+ $5,000 (RC Willey sponsorship)
         i) Sponsorship due as $5,000 sponsor deposit from RC Willey; and
         (ii) $7,500 due upon completion of Company Services from the Client.

5) Additional Provisions:

    a) The Client will approve all renderings no later than 5 days before the show, which approval is final, and binding
       and the Company will perform the show substantially as presented .
    b) At least five business days before the Show Date Company shall provide evidence to the Client of the insurance
       coverage required by Sections 3(d) and 3(e), above.
    c) The $5,000 RC Willey sponsorship will be billed directly by the Company and applied to the amount $12,500
       due for the Services.

6) General:
    a)   The Terms and Conditions attached as Schedule "A" form part of this Agreement. By signing below the parties
         each acknowledge that they have had an opportunity to review such terms and conditions and the parties
         accept and agree to such terms.
    b)   This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which
         together shall constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed by electronic
         signature and/or transmitted in electronic form and the parties to this Agreement consent thereto.

  THE PARTIES have entered into this Agreement as of the effective date specified above.

  Open Sky Productions, LLC                                        Cottonwood Heights, a Utah municipality



  By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                       By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
      Nathan Mortensen, CEO                                            Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

  Date: _}_}2026                                                   Date: 7/07/26


                                                                   ATTEST:


                                                                   By:------------
                                                                    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder
Schedule "A" -Terms and Conditions

1. Deposits. A non-refundable deposit equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total price (the "Deposit") is required upon
    execution of this Agreement to secure the Client's booking. 1he balance shall be due and payable within 5 business
    days after the show. If a show is booked within two weeks (14 days) of the required date, then full payment is
    required upon booking.
2. Payment. All payments shall be made by way of a money transfer, wire transfer, or other form of immediately
    available funds. Any amounts not paid when due hereunder shall accrue interest at the rate of 12% per annum,
    compounding monthly.
3. FAA Approval. Drone shows are subject to the Company obtaining the Company Permits. If the Company Permits
    are not obtained for any reason (other than the failure of the Client to provide any information reasonably requested
    by the Company to obtain such Company Permits), this Agreement shall terminate, and the sole right and remedy
    of the Client shall be a refund of any prepaid amounts. If the Company Permits are not obtained due to the failu re
    of the Client to provide any information reasonably requested by the Company, this Agreement shall terminate,
    without liability of the Company to the Client, and the Company shall be entitled to retain the Deposit as liquidated
    damages, which amount the parties agree is a reasonable estimate of the Company's damages in such
    circumstance.
4. Performance. The Client acknowledges that performance of the Services are subject to reasonable technical or
    other errors, and that the Services shall be deemed to be fully performed provided that at least 90% of the drones
    function substantially in the manner intended for the Services.
5. Limited Warranty. All Services to be provided hereunder will be provided in a good and professional manner and
    in accordance with applicable laws. The Company will not knowing ly infringe upon the intellectual property rights of
    third parties.
6. Disclaimer of Warranties. The Company makes no representation or warranty whatsoever either expressed or
    implied, statutory, or otherwise other than as expressly set forth herein and the Client hereby waives the benefit of
    any such expressed or implied, statutory or other representations or warranties.
7. Force Majeure. The Company shall not be liable for any modification of the Se.rvices or any failure to perform or
    delay in performance under this Agreement if such modification, failure , or delay is due to any strike, lockout, riot,
    civil commotion, sabotage embargo, epidemic, inclement weather, act of government, war, act of God or other
    cause beyond its reasonable control (each a "Force Majeure Event"). Without limiting the foregoing, the Client
    acknowledges that the performance ofthe Services and the safety of all persons present 1s dependent upon suitable
    weather condit,ions on the day of the event. The Company will have the sole discretion to determine if weather
    conditions are suitable for performance of the Services, and may delay, modify, or cancel the Services in their sole
    discretion.
8. Cancellations. The Client acknowledges that the Company will spend considerable time and resources in planning
    the Servic,es, traveling to the event venue and in setting up to perform the Services. In the event of cancellation due
    to a Force Majeure Event or failure of client to fulfill their contractual obligations, the Client will be issued a credit (the
    "Credit") equal to the amount of the Deposit less any expenses incurred prior to cancellation , including but not limited
    to labor costs fees for Company Permits and other expenses. The Credit may be applied to a future event to be
    scheduled within one (1) year of the date of the original event date. Future event dates will be scheduled based on
    availability at the time of booking. Any unused credits will expire one (1) year following the date of the original event.
    The foregoing credit shall be the Client's sole right in the case of any Force Majeure Event and in no case will the
    Client be entitled to any refund of any amounts paid.
9. Insurance. The Company will maintain and keep in force during the term of this Agreement general liability
    insurance, including aviation insurance, including coverage for personal inlury, products liability, and contractual
    liability, in the amount equivalent to at least USD $2,000,000.00 (general liability coverage) and USD $5,000,000.00
    (aviation liability coverage).
10. Limitation of Liability. The aggregate liability of the respective parties, and their officers, directors, employees,
    agents, and consultants (who shall collectively be included in the definition of the "Company'' or "Client" for purposes
    of this section), whether arising under this agreement, contract, tort, negligence, statutory liability or other legal
    theory, shall be limited to the direct and actual money damages effectively incurred by the indemnified party. The
    Client is a governmental entity who is subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. 63G-7-
    101 et seq. Nothing in this Agreement shall waive any defenses or limits of liability available under that immunity
    act or other appliable law.
11. Mutual Indemnity. The Company agrees to defend , indemnify and hold harmless the Client, its employees,
    agents, invitees and/or volunteers from any claims, demands, causes of action, liability, loss, property damage or
    any type of damage and/or injury (to property or person, including without limitation wrongful death), w hether
     brought by an individual or other entity, or imposed by a court of law or by administrative action of any federal,
    state or local government body or agency, arising out the services provided by the Company. The Client agrees
    to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its' employees, agents, invitees and/or volunteers from any
    claims, demands, causes of action, liability, loss, property damage or any type of damage and/or injury (to property
    or person, including without limitation wrongful death), whether brought by an individual or other entity, or imposed
     by a court of law or by administrative action of any federal , state or local government body or agency, arising out
    of or incident to any acts, omissions, negligence, or conduct of the Client, its personnel, employees, agents,
     contractors, or volunteers in connection with or arising out of the Client's negligence, or intentional acts or failure
    to act, arising out of this Aijreement.
12. Termination. Without limiting any other rights or remedies available at law or in equity or otherwise, either party
     may terminate this Agreement if the other party:
          (a) Is in breach or default of any of its obligations under this Agreement and such breach or default continues
                unrectified for ten (10) days following the provision of written notice of such breach or default.
          (b) Enters into proceedings in bankruptcy or insolvency, makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
                is adjudged to be bankrupt or insolvent, a petition is filed against such party under a bankruptcy law,
                corporate reorganization law, or any other law for the relief of debtors or similar law or a receiver, trustee
                or similar person is appointed with respect to such party's assets; or
          (c) Ceases to carry on its business.
13. Assignment. Neither party shall have the right to transfer or assign this Agreement or any rights , remedies,
     obligations or benefits hereunder without the prior written permission from the other party.
14. Waiver. The waiver of one breach or default shall not constitute the waiver of any subsequent breach or default and
     shall not act to amend or negate the rights of any party.
15. Severability. Any provision of this Agreement prohibited by or unlawful or unenforceable under any applicable law
     shall be ineffective without invalidating the remaining provisions of this Agreement; provided, however, that to the
     extent that the provisions of any such applicable law can be waived, they are hereby waived by the parties.
16. Relationship. The relationship between the Company and the Client will, at all times be one of independent
    contractors and nothing herein shall be construed as implying a partnership or joint venture relationsh ip.
17. Headings. The inclusion in this Agreement of headings and subheadings is for convenience of reference only and
    shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
18. Applicable Laws. This Agreement shall be governed by !he laws of the State of Utah. Jurisdiction and venue shall
    be the Third Judicial District Court in and for Salt Lake County.
19. Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties and other than as
    expressly set forth herein there are no other terms, conditions, representations, or warranties of any kind. This
    Agreement may not be modified except by another agreement, in writing, signed by both parties to this agreement.
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           CilJ lmu-rm th~ ranyow




                                  5.9
                      Resolution 2026-51
      By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry
into various contracts whereunder the following musical groups
will perform at the city's 2026 "Butlerville Days" event: Johnny
Utah, House of Rock, Surf Daddy, dadandtheduplicates, Andrea
Sharp country band, Holidae Band, Alex Elggren Band, and QC
                              Band.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-51

                         A RESOLUTION APPROVING PERFORMANCE
                         CONTRACTS FOR 2026 BUTLERVILLE DAYS

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving performance contracts (the
"Agreements") with the following musical acts (collectively, the "Providers") whereunderthe City
would engage the Providers to perform at the City's 2026 "Butlerville Days" community
celebration on the tenns and conditions specified in the Agreements: (1) Johnny Utah, (2)House
of Rock, (3) Surf Daddy, (4) dadandtheduplicates, (5) Andrea Sharp county band, (6) Holidae
Band, (7) Alex Elggren Band, and (8) QC Band; and

      WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the form of the Agreements, copies of which are
annexed hereto as exhibits; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreements as proposed;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
that the attached Agreements with Providers are hereby approved, and that the City's mayor and
recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreements on behalf of the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-51, shall take effect inunediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 7 th day of July 2026.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By:---- - - -- - - - - -                        B y : - - - -- -- - - -- - - - --
 Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                         Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                      Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                   Yea _Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                  Yea_Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                    Yea _Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7th day of July 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of July 2026.
                                    Perfonnance Contract
       THIS PERFORMANCE CONTRACT (this "Agreement" ) is made effective _ _ _ _ 20
between the artist specified below ("Artist" ), and the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah
municipality whose address is 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121 ("City"). This
Agreement concerns a musical production to be staged by Artist at City's 20_ Butlerville Days
community celebration (the "Event" ) scheduled for _ - _ July 20_ at 7500 South 2700 East in
Cottonwood Heights, UT. This Agreement constitutes the entire contractual relationship between City
and Artist concerning the Perfonnance.
        Section 1.   Setup Time. Artist shall deliver its equipment to the stage area at the Event no
later than __ p.m. on _ July 20_ . City anticipates that the stage (the "Stage") will be erected and
ready for use by _ _ p.m. on that date, whereupon Artist may set up its equipment on the Stage and
conduct a sound check. A final sound check may be conducted between_ p.m. and __ p.m. on July


       Section 2.   Performance Times. Artist shall perforn1 (the "Performance") between __
p.m. and __ p.m. (i.e., _ minutes) on_ July 20_. Artist's perfonnance will consist of original
music and some covers (see, however, Section 13 below), appropriate for a family-oriented, community
event.
        Section 3.     Total Compensation. The total compensation to be paid by City for the
Performance and all of Artist's services under the Agreement shall be a flat fee of$_ _ (the " Contract
Price"). City shall pay a deposit of _% of the Contract Price (the "Deposit") upon the parties' joint
entry into this Agreement. City shall pay any unpaid balance of the Contract Price within _ _ _
business days after the Event.
        Section 4.      Equipment; Supplies; Personnel. City only is required to (a) provide an elevated
stage at an outdoor venue, equipped with lighting and at least two electrical connections within 50 feet
of the stage; (b) use reasonable diligence to assure that all City-provided equipment is in good working
order for the Perfornrnnce; (c) provide bottled water for _ _ at the Event; (d) assure reasonable access
to the stage area for loading and unloading of Artist' s equipment; and (e) parking for Artist's van, bus,
and/or trailer in convenient distance to the stage (Artist shall inform City in writing of Artist's parking
needs at least five business days before the Event). City is not required to provide any other facilities,
equipment, supplies or personnel under the Agreement except the following:
                                                                              - - - - -- - - --




        Section 5.      Nonperformance. If the Performance caimot occur due to force majeure events
(natural disaster, extreme weather conditions, war, riot, or similar events beyond the reasonable control
of either party) notwithstanding that Artist is ready, willing and able to stage the Performance, then City
shall pay one-half the Contract Price. If the Performance cannot occur due to death, illness, injury or
other reasons affecting Artist such that Artist caimot stage the Performance, then City shall be excused
from any obligation to pay any of the Contract Price and the Deposit shall be promptly refunded to City.
        Section 6.     Advertising. City controls all advertising and publicity for the Event, provided
that if any such advertising or publicity does more than name Artist and/or its artist for purposes of
publicizing the Performance, Artist shall have the right to review and pre-approve such advertising, etc.,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Artist consents to City's use
of Artist's image in City publications, video recordings, photographs, images or the like advertising or
memorializing the Event.
       Section 7.    Recording, Etc. City has no control over Event attendees choosing to record,
broadcast, photograph or otherwise reproduce any part of the Performance.
       Section 8.     No Right to Sell Goods or Merchandise. Artist may not sell any programs,
photographs, records, posters or other merchandise of any type or description at the Event.
        Section 9.  Cancellation. Either party's right to cancel the Performance, and this Agreement,
shall expire on ___ _ 20
         Section 10.   Change of Artist. Artist is not entitled to substitute another performer for the
artist designated above.
        Section 11.   Other Artists. City may freely allow other artists, performers, etc. selected by
City to perform on the Stage before and/or after the Performance.
       Section 12.     Immunity Act. City is a governmental entity that is covered by the provisions of
the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. 63G-7-101 et seq. (the "Immunity Act"). By
entering into the Agreement, City does not waive any rights or protections to it under the Immunity Act.
        Section 13.      No Infringement. Artist' s Performance shall not infringe on or violate the
ownership, copyright or other intellectual property rights of anyone. Artist shall comply with any
licensing requirements of BM.I (Broadcast Music, Inc.) and ASCAP (American Society of Composers,
Authors, and Publishers) relative to the use of copyrighted musical materials in connection with the
Performance. Artist shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless City, Canyons School District,
Cottonwood Heights Parks and Recreation Service Area, all Event sponsors, and their respective officers,
employees and agents, from and against any and all claims, demands, causes of action, actions,
proceedings, damages, costs and fees (including reasonable attorney' s fees) arising from, caused by or
attributable to Artist's infringement of another's rights in and to the musical materials used by Artist in
the Perfom1ance, including Artist's failure to obtain appropriate licensing for use of such copyrighted
musical materials.
       DATED effective the date first-above written.
                                              CITY:
ATTEST:                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality


By: _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ __                      By:
                                                  - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                        Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                              ARTIST:


                                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ , individually and on behalf of,
                                                or doing business as, _ _ _ __ _ _ __ __ __

                                              Address:
                                                         - - - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - -
                                              Email:
                                                       - -- - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - -
                                              Phone:
                                                        - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - -
                                                    2
                         Cottonwood Heights
                         City IHruv:,11 ''" ra,l)'OIU




                                 5.10
                    Resolution 2026-52
   This resolution will approve the city's entry into a contract
 whereunder Custom Events, Inc. will provide "inflatables,"
games and similar at the 2026 "Butlerville Days" community
                         celebration.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2026-52

                  A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN "EVENT CONTRACT"
               WITH CUSTOM EVENTS, INC. FOR 2026 BUTLERVILLE DAYS

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving and ratifying a contract and
an amendment thereto (collectively, the "Agreement") with Custom Events, hlc. ("Provider")
whereunder the City would retain Provider to provide and oversee various events at the City's
2026 "Butlerville Days" community celebration on the terms and conditions specified in the
Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fonn of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto as an exhibit; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve the City's entry into
the Agreement as propose~

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of Cottonwood Heights
tl1at the attached Agreement with Provider is hereby approved and ratified, and that the City's
mayor and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Agreement on behalf of
the City.

       This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-52, shaU take effect immediately upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 7th day of July 2026.


ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


By: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                     By:---- -- - - -- - -- - - -
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                    Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor

                                               VOTING:

                                               Gay Lynn Bennion                 Yea_Nay_
                                               Matt Holton                      Yea_Nay_
                                               Suzanne Hyland                   Yea _Nay_
                                               Shawn E. Newell                  Yea _ Nay_
                                               Ellen Birrell                    Yea_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7'11 day of July 2026.

       RECORDED this_ day of July 2026.
                         Atnendment to "Custom Events"
                                Event Proposal
      THIS AMENDMENT (this "Amendment") is entered into effective 6 May 2025 between
CUSTOM EVENTS, INC., a Utah corporation ("Provider" ), and the city of COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality ("City"), and shall be deemed to amend the "Event Proposal" (the
"Agreement") that is attached to this Amendment.

         Section 1.      Background. City has scheduled its annual "Butlerville Days" community
event (the "Event" ) for 24-26 July 2025 on the public property surrounding the Cottonwood
Heights Recreation Center near 2700 East 7500 South in the City (the "Event Site"). As part of the
Event, City desires to provide recreational opportunities to Event participants in the form of
inflatable slides and attractions. Provider is in the business of providing such services and has
proposed to provide (as specified in the Agreement) all necessary or advisable equipment,
facilities, supervision, etc. for such activities in connection with the Event (collectively, the "Event
Services").

        Section 2.    Amendments. By their signatures below, the parties mutually accept and
enter into the Agreement, subject to the following modifications:

                (a)    Insurance. Provider shall maintain in full force and effect a broad form
comprehensive workmen's compensation, bodily injury and property damage liability insurance
policy or policies against claims for damage or injury to persons or property arising out of any of
the Event Services (i.e.- whether equipment-based, supervision-based, or otherwise) in connection
with the Event. Such policy shall be maintained on the minimum basis of One Million Dollars
($1 ,000,000.00) combined single limit. Provider shall cause City, Cottonwood Heights Parks and
Recreation Service Area (the "Service Area"), and their respective officers, employees and other
designees to be named as additional insureds under such policy and shall provide to City a
certificate evidencing such insurance coverage at least three days before the Event. All insurance
required to be carried hereunder shall be with companies, on forms and with loss payable clauses
reasonably satisfactory to City. All such policies shall be written as primary policies, not
contributing with and not in excess of coverage which City may carry.

                (b)    Hold Harmless Undertaking. Provider agrees, covenants, and undertakes to
indemnify, hold free and harmless, assume liability for, and defend City, the Service Area, and
their respective officers, employees, agents, servants and representatives (collectively, the
"Indemnitees" ) from any and all losses, costs, and expenses, including but not limited to monetary
damages, attorney' s fees, investigative and discovery costs, court costs, fines , penalties, increased
taxes, and all other sums, that any of the Indemnitees may incur, face, pay or become obligated to
pay on account of any, all, and every demand for claim or assertion of liability, or any claim or
action thereon, arising or alleged to have arisen out of any of the Event Services. The foregoing
indemnities, etc. shall not, however, be deemed to waive or modify any rights, defenses,
protections or limits of liability of City or the Service Area against third parties under the "Utah
Governmental Immunity Act" (UTAH CODE ANN. § 630-7-101 , et seq.).

        Section 3.   No Other Modifications. Except as specifically amended and modified by
this Amendment, the Agreement shall be deemed unmodified and in full force and effect between
the parties.
     DATED effective the date first-above written.

                                         PROVIDER:

                                         CUSTOM EVENTS, INC., a Utah corporation



                                         By: _______________

                                         Its: ----------------


                                         CITY:

ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality



By: ____________                         By:---------------­
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                GayLynn Bennion, Mayor




                                            2
                                  801-446-5115
                             www.customeventsinc.com
                        2794 W. 14000 S. Bluffdale, UT 84065


                                     EVENT Contract*

Company: Cottonwood Heights for its Bu~lerville Days Community Event ("Citj')
Contact: Ann Eatchel c/o       Cottonwood Heights
                               2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                               Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
Telephone: 801-550-8225
Fax/email: aeatchel@ch.utah .gov
                       th
Date: Friday July 25 and Saturday July 261\ 2025
Time: Friday 4:00 pm - 9:00 pm and Saturday Noon - 9pm
Location: 7500 South 2700 East, Cottonwood Heights


Custom Events Inc. ("Provider'') will provide the following services for the Event:


**Polar Bear Slide. Standing 28' in the air this slide will send you sliding down the icy slopes of
the snow with all the penguins and fun friends.

**Cars Movie Slide. Take a trip with Mater and all of the cars crew on this large and exciting slide
from the Disney movie cars.

**The Lost Jungle King Cobra Obstacle Course. This is one of our most exciting attractions! As
you can see this Giant King Cobra will be watching you as you bounce and play. It is thrilling for all
ages! The huge King Cobra will welcome you into this adventure of slides, tunnels and
obstacles. Are you up for it? Enter if you dare!

**Minions 50' Obstacle Course. Come climb into a new world ofadventure when you imagine you
are on the adventure with Gm and the gang.
**Little Builders Obstacle Course. Made for the younger contractor, this construction obstacle is
plastered with colorful pictures of tractors and tools and all the things a contractor would need. The
kids will love it

**18 Foot Slide. This colorful inflatable slide is great fun for all ages, it is double wide so two riders
can go at the same time. Not only is it fun, but riders also move through quickly so it is great for
large crowds who don' t like to wait in line!

**40 Foot Obstacle Course. This is a fun and colorful obstacle course built for all ages! Race your
friends, family or even your enemies through this awesome and challenging course!

**Rock wall. Test your strength, and agility on our 25' tall professionally manufactured wall. This
piece has built in safety features like a hydraulic rope braking system, so even the faint of heart can
climb with confidence! To be run by adults only.


The total price for the above services will be:                        $21,700.00


Minus multi attraction discount: savings of                            $13,200.00


Subtotal before tax:                                                   $8,500.00


          Sales tax of 7 .25%:                                         $616.25
"Sales tax amounts will vary depending on the location of your event, also a mandatory
restaurant tax will be assessed for all food products. Amount on proposal will vary
when you receive your invoice.




Grand total price after tax:                                           $9,116.25


To book the above services, a NON-REFUNDABLE deposit of 25% is required along with a
signed copy of an acceptable proposal. The remainder will be due on the day of the Event.


**Provider will provide set up, staff, and clean up all attractions.
Provider will also provide the power for all attractions.

**Provider will have 16+ year-olds running all attractions except the
Rock Wall, which shall be run by an 18+ year old.

**Provider will provide the cell phone number and contact
                                                                 2
information for Provider's manager in charge of Provider's activities
at the Event. Such manager shall be readily available to take the City's
calls throughout the Event.

**Provider will always have a minimum of two extra managers out in
front of rides to insure extra safety precautions and to obtain medical
assistance from the UFA medical tent for any users of Provider's
equipment needing such assistance.

**Provider will not have any carts or motorized vehicle running
during the Event.

**Provider operates all equipment according to manufacturer, and insurance specifications.
Provider will not be held liable if wind, weather, or other acts of nature affect our ability to
pet1orm this event, and City agrees to pay Provider for services regardless of early shut
down due to weather.


*Provider schedules the use of attractions on a first come, first serve basis. The equipment
on this proposal is not guaranteed unless a signed copy is received and confirmed by
Provider.


Proposal accepted by the city of Cottonwood Heights effective 6 May 2025.


ATTEST:


By:----------­                                     By:-----------­
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                            GayLynn Bennion, Mayor


AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED by Custom Events, Inc. as of the effective date specified
above.


                                                   By:-------------
                                                    Its: _____________


                                               3
                                      ~~,
                           Cottonwood Heights
                           City IHtuv-m 11,~ '"")YJIIJ




                                   5.11
                      Resolution 2026-53
       By this resolution the council will approve the city's entry
into agreements whereunder Lantis Productions, Inc. will stage a
   fireworks display on 18 July 2026 as part of the city's 2026
                     "Butlerville Days" event.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-53

                   A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND RATIFYING A
               FIREWORKS DISPLAY CONTRACT AND PURCHASE ORDER
            WITH LANTIS PRODUCTIONS, INC. FOR 2026 BUTLERVILLE DAYS

        WHEREAS, the city council (the "Councif') of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
"City") met in regular session on 7 July 2026 to consider, among other things, approving a
"Fireworks Display Contract and Purchase Order" (the "Agreement") with Lantis Productions, Inc.
("Lantis") whereunder Lantis would stage a fireworks display in connection with the City's
"B utlerville Days" community event on or about 18 July 2026; and

       WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the fom1 of the Agreement, a photocopy of which
is annexed hereto; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Com1cil has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of tbe City to approve and ratify the City's
entry into the Agr,eement as proposed;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the attached Agreement is hereby approved and ratified, and that tlie City's mayor
and recorder are authorized and directed to execute and deliv,er the Agreement on behalf of the
City.

        This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-53, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.

ATTEST:                                         COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y:-----------­                                By:---------------­
    Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                       Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                                VOTING:

                                                Gay Lynn Bennion                Yea_Nay_
                                                Matt Holton                     Yea_Nay_
                                                Suzanne Hyland                  Yea_Nay_
                                                Shawn E. Newell                 Yea_Nay_
                                                Ellen B irrell                  Yea_Nay_

        DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7 th day of July 2026.

        RECORDED this_ day of July 2026.
50%150%                                                                               Show: 23

             FIREWORKS DISPLAY CONTRACT AND PURCHASE ORDER

    TIDS CONTRACT (this "Contract"), entered into on May 2, 2023, is between LANTIS
PRODUCTIONS, INC., a Utah corporation hereinafter referred to as "LANTIS", and
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, a Utah municipality hereinafter referred to as "CLIENT".

       WITNESSETH: LANTIS agrees to furnish the CLIENT, in accordance with the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth, a fireworks display show (the "Display") as per LANTIS'
proposal made a part hereof, including the services of a licensed and trained pyro-technician to
take charge of and fire the Display.

       CLIENT shall pay LANTIS the sum of Fifteen Thousand Four Hundred and No/ 100 (U.S.
$15,400.00) DOLLARS, in current, immediately available funds, according to the following terms
and conditions:

        I.     Due upon execution of Contract          $7,700.00

       2.      Due ten days prior to the Display       $7,700.00

                                               Total:$ 15,400.00

        All sums due herein shall be mailed directly to the corporate offices of Lantis Productions
Inc., P.O. Box 491 , Draper, Utah 84020, unless otherwise directed in writing.

Note: Balance due at time of the Display must be given to the authorized representative of LANTIS
before the Display will be commenced.

        The Display is hereby scheduled to be perfonned on July 29, 2023, and shall be a
professionally choreographed fireworks display show that is 15-16 minutes in duration and is
choreographed to synchronized music. The Display may be cancelled by CLIENT up to ten ( l 0)
days before the Display's date. At this time only the cost of the set pieces (if applicable) and permit
fees will be paid for by CLIENT. If for reasons other than adverse weather conditions the Display
shall be cancelled within the ten (10) days prior to the Display date, CLIENT agrees to pay an
amount equal to one-half of the total contract amount as a cancellation fee.

       If the scheduled presentation of the Display is delayed due to adverse weather conditions,
or other circumstances beyond the reasonable control of either LANTIS or CLIENT, each shall
bear an equal share (i.e., 50%) of all "out-of-pocket" expenses incurred by LANTIS due to the
delay. Such expenses shall include, but shall not be limited to, additional lodging, meals, pyro-
technician fees, permits, vehicle rentals, and equipment rentals (if any) incurred by authorized
representatives of LANTIS necessary to present the Display.
        CLIENT hereby agrees that any Display so delayed must be presented within ten (10)
calendar days of the originally scheduled date without incurring additional expenses except as
detailed in the paragraph above. If the presentation of the Display is delayed beyond ten ( l 0)
calendar days from the originally scheduled date, this Contract shall be subject to renegotiation
between LANTIS and CLIENT.

        CLIENT agrees to provide and furnish a suitable place to display the said fireworks.
LANTIS, on behalf of CLIENT, will secure all required state and/or local fireworks permits. Any
required marine pem1its will be obtained by LANTIS on behalf of the CLIENT. CLIENT will
obtain any required event permits, and will arrange for any security bonds as required by law in
CLIENT'S community when necessary. CLIENT agrees to furnish necessary and adequate police
and/or private security, fire and other necessary protection for proper crowd control, auto parking
control, and proper security around the designated safety area during the set-up, during firing, and
for a minimum of thirty minutes following completion of the Display.

       Any vehicles or personal property located within the designated safety area shall be
removed at CLIENT'S expense. Any damage or destruction of vehicles or personal property left
remaining in the designated safety area shall be the sole responsibility of CLIENT.

         CLIENT hereby acknowledges and agrees that LANTIS ' pyro-technician, CLIENT, or the
local fire authority, shall have the right to delay the start of, or terminate the firing of, the Display
if, in any one of the individuals' reasonable judgment, unsafe conditions exist as detailed in
LANTIS ' Safety Procedures Manual, NFPA 1123 Guidelines, or other applicable local law or
regulation.

       LANTIS shall provide insurance coverage for the following a.mounts and specified risks
only: Bodily Injury and Property Damage, including Product Liability of $5,000,000.00. Under
the provisions of our insurance coverage, this protection shall be extended to the CLIENT and
additional insured only upon receipt by LANTIS of a properly executed original copy of this
Contract.

         It is agreed that this Contract shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah. Should
any legal action be brought to enforce or interpret the terms or provisions of this Contract, any
court of competent jurisdiction shall be proper venue for such an action. Interest at 2% per month
(24% per amrnm) will be charged on all accounts past due, and CLIENT agrees to pay the same.
If any legal action is brought to enforce or interpret the terms or provision of this Contact, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees and costs in addition to any other
relief they may be entitled to.

        It is further agreed that nothing in this Contract shall be construed as fonning a partnership,
the parties hereto being severally responsible for their own separate debts and obligations, and
neither party shall be held responsible for any agreement not stated in this Contract. The parties
hereto do mutually and severally guarantee the terms, conditions and payments of this Contract
and these articles shall be binding on the parties themselves and on their heirs, executors,
administrators, successors and assigns. CLIENT fmther warrants that the signature affixed hereto
on its behalf is properly authorized to execute such documents and incur such obligations on behalf


                                                   2
of CLIENT. CLIENT further agrees that none of the provisions of this Contract may be changed
or modified in any way without the express written permission of LANTIS.

       Additional Provisions:

       LANTIS agrees to provide the following product for the Display:

       Main Program
       2.5" Display Shells                                         428
       2.5" Salutes                                                30
       3"     Display Shells                                       265
       4"     Display Shells                                       113
       Cakes (. 75" - 1.25"):                                      1760

       DATED effective the date first-above written.

LANTIS:

Lantis Productions Inc.


By:------------­
   Kenneth L. Lantis, President


CLIENT:

Cottonwood Heights                                       Attest:


By:-----------­                                          By: ------------
   Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor                                   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder




                                              3
                           CLIENT COMMUNICATIONS DATA
                                 Lantis Productions Inc.

Show# 23

Please provide requested infonnation to assure constant and immediate communication with Lantis
Productions Inc. of Fairfield, Utah and the Client.

Client/Show Sponsor: Cottonwood Heights

Billing Address: 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Show Date: July 29, 2023                     Approximate Time: 10 P.M.
Length of Show: 16 minutes

Show Location:        The Richard L. Guthrie Skate Park
                      2415 East Bengal Blvd.
                      Cottonwood Heights, UT 84117

Lantis Productions' representative should contact the following person or persons for instructions:

Primary Contact:       LindseyWebb                                      ---------
                      2277 East Bengal Blvd.
                      Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
                      Phone: 801-550-8225

Specific Address of Display Site:     The Richard L. Guthrie Skate Park
                                      2415 East Bengal Blvd.
                                      Cottonwood Heights, UT 84117

Routing to Location from Major Highway:

Extremely Important:

Nearest Airport:              Salt Lake International Airp ort
Approximate Distance:         19.3 Miles




                                                 4
                       INSURANCE CERTIFICATE REQUISITION
                               Lantis Productions Inc.

Show: 23

Client Name: Cottonwood Heights--Butlerville Days

Address: 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Display Date: July 29, 2023 Approximate Time: 10 PM

Location of Display: The Richard L. Guthrie Skate Park
                     2415 East Bengal Blvd.
                     Cottonwood Heights, UT 84117

Exact Names of those to be insured: Cottonwood Heights, a Utah municipality; Cottonwood
Heights Parks & Recreation Service Area; Unified Fire Authority; The Richard L. Guthrie Skate
Park

Name of Site P1·operty Owner: Cottonwood Heights Parks & Recreation Service Area

Insurance Certificate is to be issued to: Cottonwood Heights

This form must be returned with your signed contract in order for the Insurance Certificate to be
processed. Our Insurance Carrier requires that we have this form in addition to the signed contract
prior to the Certificate being issued and the coverage extended to the show sponsor(s).

The Insurance Carrier also requires that a diagram of the display show site and a description of the
surrounding properties be submitted before the show. Please attach this diagram to this fonn. If
you have any questions, please contact our Corporate Office at 1-800-443-3040 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Mountain Time.




                                                 5
                       REQUEST FOR DIAGRAM OF FIRING AREA
                                Lantis Productions Inc.

Show: 23

Dear Customer: Cottonwood Heights--Butlerville Days

In an effort to better understand and plan for your fireworks display show, it is of the utmost
importance that you supply our office with a diagram or map of the proposed display site and the
surrounding areas in all directions.

The map should show distances (in feet) from spectators and parking areas as well as buildings
wires and overhead obstructions. We need to receive this information before we can apply for
permits and insurance.

Preparation and planning can bring out the best in a fireworks display. It can also reduce accidents.
Thank you for your cooperation and attention to this matter!

Lantis Productions Inc.




                                                 6
                          Cottonwood Heights
                          City IHtu-<m tht tdll)-0111




                                 5.12
                     Resolution 2026-54
    This resolution will approve the manager's appointment of
Micki Harris to the city's Parks, Trails and Open Space advisory
                            committee.
                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2026-54

             A RESOLUTION CONSENTING TO AN APPOINTMENT TO THE
        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS PARKS, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE

       WHEREAS, Part 7 ofChapter 2.140 of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(the "Code"), comprising Code Sections 2.140.70 l through 2.140.705, establishes the Parks, Trails
and Open Space Committee (the "Committee") as one of the advisory committees for the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the "City"); and

      WHEREAS, Code §2.140.703(B) provides that the Committee shall consist of up to 15
members, of which at least 13 are City residents, with a demonstrated interest, competence or
knowledge concerning parks, trails and open space; and

        WHEREAS, Code §2.140. l 04 provides that members of the Committee shall be appointed
and removed by the city manager (the "Manager") with advice and consent of the city council (the
"Council"), and that the t·erms of office shall be three years so that the terms of approximately one-
third of the members expire each year; and

        WHEREAS, the Council met on 7 July 2026 to, among other things, (a) consider
approving the appointm.ent of Micki Harris to the Committee, and (lb) ratify and consent to the
current composition of membership of the Committee; and

       WHEREAS, the Manager has nominated the aforementioned person to serve on the
Committee commencing on 1 July 2026 and ending on 30 June 2027 or until their successor is
approved; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council lias detennined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the City and its residents to give advice and to consent
to such appointments to the Committee as proposed by the Manager;

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights that the Council hereby gives advice and consents to the appointment of the
aforementioned persons to the Committee, and hereby ratifies and gives advice and consents to
the status of the following individuals as all of the current members of the Committee for the terms
of office set forth opposite each name or until their successors are approved:

        Name                           District                        Term Expires

        Ronna Cohen                    2                               30 June 2028
        Matthew Dominesey              2                               30 June 2028
        Melissa Fields                 4                               30 June 2028
        Aline Longstaff                2                               30 June 2028
        Scott Simonsen                  I                              30 June 2028

        Lucy Anderson                  3                               30 June 2029
     Elise Graham                 4                            30 June 2029
     Lyse Durrant                 (CH Rec. Serv. Area)         NIA
     Michael Menssen              1                            30 June 2029
     Chris Owens                  2                            30 June 2029

     Brad Buswell                 2                             30 June 2027
     Zachery Geiger               2                             30 June 2027
     Micki Harris                 4                             30 June 2027
     Chelsea Voss                 3                             30 June 2027

     This Resolution, assigned no. 2026-54, shall take effect immediately upon passage.

     PASSED AND APPROVED effective 7 July 2026.

ATTEST:                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B y : - - --   -   - ----                By: - -- - - - -- -- - -- -- -
   Tiffany Janzen, Recorder                 Gay Lynn Bennion, Mayor


                                         VOTING:

                                         Gay Lynn Bennion              Yea_Nay _
                                         Matt Holton                   Yea_Nay _
                                         Suzanne Hyland                Yea_Nay_
                                         Shawn E. Newell               Yea_Nay_
                                         Ellen Birrell                 Yea_Nay_

     DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 7 th day of July 2026.

     RECORDED this _ day of July 2026.




                                            2
