COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AGENDA
December 4, 2024


Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Hearing Officer will convene on Wednesday,
December 4, 2024, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT
84121) for an Administrative Hearing Meeting.

The meeting will begin at 12:00 p.m. in the City Hall Room 5 (Council Chambers).

12:00 p.m. ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MEETING

       1.0 Business Items
              1.1 Project CUP-24-017
              Request by Jin-Xiang Yu, to operate a home business (Music Educator/Performer – Beyond
              2135, LLC.) at 7485 S. 2135 E.

       2.0 Consent Agenda
              2.1 Approval of Administrative Hearing Officer Minutes from December 4, 2024

               (The Administrative Hearing Officer will approve the minutes of the December 4, 2024
               meeting after the following process is met: The City Recorder will prepare the minutes and
               email them to the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will have five days to review the
               minutes and provide any changes to the Recorder. If, after five days there are no changes,
               the minutes will stand approved. If there are changes, the process will be followed until
               the changes are made and the hearing officer is in agreement, at which time the minutes
               shall be deemed approved.)

       3.0 Adjourn


Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order:
    1. Staff Presentation
    2. Applicant Presentation
    3. Open Public Hearing (if item has been noticed for public hearing). Each speaker during the public
       hearing will be limited to three minutes.
    4. Close Public Hearing
    5. Administrative Hearing Officer Deliberation
    6. Administrative Hearing Officer Decision

Administrative Hearing applications may be tabled if: 1) Additional information is needed in order to act
on the item; OR 2) The Hearing Officer feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention
before the Officer is ready to make a decision. The Hearing Officer may carry over agenda items to the
next regularly scheduled meeting.
Submission of Written Public Comment
Written comments on any agenda item should be received by the Cottonwood Heights Community and
Economic Development Department no later than 12:00 p.m. MDT on Tuesday, December 3, 2024, the
day before the meeting. Comments should be emailed to planning@ch.utah.gov. After the public
hearing has been closed, the Community and Economic Development Department will not accept any
additional written or verbal comments on the application.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations
or assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7021 at least 24 hours
prior to the meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Tuesday, November 27, 2024, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in
the front foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s
website at www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at
http://pmn.utah.gov.



DATED THIS 27th DAY OF November 2024
Attest: Maria Devereux, City Recorder
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
December 4, 2024

Summary
Project #:
CUP-24-017

Subject Property:
7485 S. 2135 E.

Action Requested:
Conditional use approval to
operate home business with
clients (Music
Educator/Performer – Beyond
2135, LLC.)

Applicant:
Jin-Xiang Yu

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions
                                      Aerial View

Context
Property Owner:
William Fox, Jin-Xiang Yu

Address & Parcel #:
7485 S 2135 E
22-27-305-023-0000

Acres:
0.18




                              View of driveway and parking
                                                Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-24-017
                                                                                December 4, 2024


Request
The applicant is seeking approval to operate a home-based business within their residence, offering
private music instruction to clients of all ages by appointment. According to the applicant’s
narrative, lessons will be scheduled between 8:00 AM and 9:00 PM, primarily on weekdays, Monday
through Friday. Weekend classes may occasionally be scheduled, though this will be limited and is
not intended to be a regular occurrence.

Music instruction will take place in the applicant’s basement. The business will not produce
excessive odors; all activities will be contained within a designated area. During lessons, windows
will remain closed, and sound levels will be maintained at the lowest possible volume to minimize
any disturbance. The property's front yard includes two parking spaces available for clients. Parking
areas shall consist of a paved surface, covered by asphalt, concrete or other hard surface materials.



Site Plan




                                              Site Plan




                                                                                         Page 2 of 5
                                                 Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-24-017
                                                                                 December 4, 2024


Zoning and Land Use




                      Residential Single-Family (R-1-8)




                                                                          Residential
                                                                          Multi-Family
                                                                            (R-2-8)




                                             Zoning Map




Analysis
Zoning
The zoning designation of the property is R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family). Home occupations with
clients are listed as a conditional use in the R-1-8 zone, as referenced in §19.26.030. C. Home
occupations are allowed only if the proposed business is clearly secondary and incidental to the
primary use of the property as the applicant’s permanent and full-time place of residence. Home
Occupations are regulated in §19.76.040 Land Use:

F. Home occupations.
    1. “Home occupation” means, (unless otherwise provided in this code) any use conducted
       entirely within a dwelling and carried on by one person residing in the dwelling unit and one
       additional person who may, or may not, reside in the dwelling unit, which use is clearly
       incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
                                                                                         Page 3 of 5
                                                   Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-24-017
                                                                                   December 4, 2024

         change the character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes, and in connection
         with which there is no display nor stock in trade, “stock in trade” being any item offered for
         sale which was not produced on the premises.
    2.   The home occupation shall not include the sale of commodities except those produced on
         the premises; provided, however, that original or reproductions of works of art designed or
         created by the artist operating a home occupation may be stored and sold on the premises.
         “Reproduction of works of art” includes, but is not limited to printed reproduction, casting,
         and sound recordings.
    3.   The home occupation shall not involve the use of any accessory building, yard space or
         activity outside the main building if the use of accessory buildings or outside activity, for the
         purpose of carrying on a home occupation, violates the rule of the use being clearly incidental
         and secondary to the use of the dwelling or dwelling purposes.
    4.   The director shall determine whether additional parking, in addition to the two spaces
         required per dwelling unit, is required for a home occupation and shall also determine the
         number and location of such additional parking spaces.
    5.   The director will review all home occupations for compliance with the above items. If the
         proposed home occupation cannot meet any one of the above items, the director shall not
         approve the home occupation.
    6.   “Minor home occupation” means a home occupation which complies with the requirements
         of Chapter 5.54 of this code and which will not otherwise have an offsite impact which, when
         combined with the impact of the primary residential use of the dwelling, exceeds the impact
         of the residential use alone. A minor home occupation is a permitted use in any zone which
         allows home occupations.
    7.   “Home occupation with clients” means a home occupation, not otherwise expressly
         prohibited by this code, where one or more persons visit the dwelling to conduct business on
         more than a very occasional, sporadic basis. A home occupation with clients requires a
         conditional use permit.

Noticing
Property owners within 300 feet of the subject property were mailed notices at least 10 days prior
to the public hearing, as required by 19.84.050.

Impact
The applicant has two available parking spaces in the front yard. Parking areas shall consist of a
paved surface, covered by asphalt, concrete or other hard surface materials. The proposed home
business will provide music instruction and use the subject property's basement space. Business
hours are 9:00 AM to 7:00 PM, Monday through Friday. Because of the physical demands of an
educator, the applicant will limit the number of daily lessons to six or fewer clients. Some lessons
would need to be scheduled for the weekend, but they are very limited. There will be no additional
employees working in the home.

Conclusions – Recommended Findings for Approval
•   The applicant’s narrative addresses client parking, employees, hours of operation, and business
    floorplan. Based on the materials submitted with the application, staff finds that the proposed
    home occupation will be incidental and secondary to the use of the property as a residence.
•   An administrative hearing will be held in accordance with local and state requirements.

                                                                                              Page 4 of 5
                                               Administrative Hearing Staff Report for CUP-24-017
                                                                               December 4, 2024




Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of the application with conditions:

Conditions of Approval
   1. The applicant shall obtain and maintain an approved business license with Cottonwood
      Heights.

   2. Customers must use provided parking. Customers must be made aware of these parking
      restrictions.

   3. The business hours shall adhere to the applicant’s narrative.

   4. Approval of this home occupation is subject to review upon complaint.

   5. No more than one non-resident employee is permitted at this business.

   6. Any business activity conducted outside the dwelling shall not violate the rule of the use
      being clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.

   7. The parking area in the front yard must be paved before next year's business license renewal,
      and it needs to meet the city code required 11.04 R, 11.20.030 D.



Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-24-017, based upon the recommended findings for approval
outlined in this staff report:
• List any other findings or conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny project CUP-24-017, based on the following findings:
• List findings for denial…



Attachments
   1. Applicant Narrative
   2. Parking and Floor Plan




                                                                                        Page 5 of 5
Project Narrative:
❑ Describe the overall proposal, including the type of services offered by the business, the
  proposed days and hours of operation, and the anticipated number of clients per day.

  I am a musician, performer, and educator. As someone who has been directly involved in Cottonwood
  Heights Arts Council’s community events (2021 summer musical (“Matilda”) choreographer, 2021
  “Light the Heights” performer, 2024 Chinese New Year performer, 2024 summer musical (“Beauty
  and the Beast”) performer), I wish to expand music education resources for members of the
  community. The purpose of this home business is to provide one-on-one instruction with clients
  interested in pursuing music in a safe space for artistic expression.

  I anticipate providing private instruction to clients of all ages. Therefore, some clients will drive
  themselves, and clients not of age to drive themselves will be dropped off or accompanied during the
  lesson by their parent/chaperone. As some clients may have school, jobs, or families, lesson
  availability will be from 8AM-9PM MST, whenever it is convenient for their schedule. Since lessons
  will be private instruction and physically demanding on me as an educator, my goal is to limit the
  number of lessons per day to six clients or less. My goal is to contain all scheduled lessons during the
  week, Monday through Friday; however, as I am an active performer, there may be times where some
  lessons would need to be scheduled on weekend days. I anticipate those to be very limited and not
  the norm.

❑ Describe how many employees will be part of the business (including yourself), and which
  employees (including yourself) reside at the home.

  My current business structure with the state is as a Single-Member LLC. I am the only employee of
  the business and reside at the residence. In the future, I may consider employing my mother, a
  pianist, who also resides at the home.

❑ Describe what areas, both indoor and outdoor, will be used for the business.

  Outdoor business use is limited to the designated parking area and access to the home’s entrance.
  Indoor business use is limited to the entryway, stairs to the basement of the home, basement level
  bathroom, and north half of the basement (see “Floor Plan” on Sheet 6). All other areas are restricted.

❑ Describe what efforts will be made to prevent noise, odor, or other potential nuisances from
  impacting neighboring properties, including any information about staggering business clients
  to reduce traffic.

  There should be no odors associated with this business. An air purifier with HEPA filter is in the studio
  to improve the air quality of the space and reduce the spread of airborne pathogens for the health and
  safety of the residents and clients.

  Since this business results in the production of noise (music), the windows and doors will remain
  closed during the private instruction.

  Since most clients would arrive via automobile, parking in the dedicated off-street spaces to prevent
  any adverse impacts on the neighbors (see “Parking and Circulation Plan” on Sheet 5). No more than
  two clients would be at the business at any given time, and for an anticipated period of no more than
  15 minutes, the time between when one lesson is about to end and another lesson is about to start.

                                        BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                                                       2
                                     Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
Project Narrative:
❑ Describe what sale of product will take place at the home, if any.

  This business is not licensed with the state to permit the sale of any product, nor is it anticipated.

❑ Describe what remodels or additions are proposed for this business, if any.

  There are no remodels or additions proposed for this business. The business is expected to be
  conducted in the home’s existing basement using current equipment and furniture (see “Floor Plan”
  on Sheet 6).

❑ Describe how the proposed project is consistent with the Cottonwood Heights zoning
  ordinance and master plans.

  This lot is zoned as R-1-8 Residential Single Family, in accordance with Cottonwood Heights
  Municipal Code Section 19.26. This conditional use permit is being applied for under section
  19.26.030.E (Home occupation conditional use). As this is a low-density residential neighborhood and
  the number of clients per day (including overlapping clients) is limited to that described in this project
  narrative, I do not foresee any deviation from the existing zoning constraints and conditional use
  permit, nor are any disruptions to the neighboring residences expected.




                                         BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                                                           3
                                      Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
Parking and Circulation Plan:
Satellite view of off-street parking area:




                          ENTRY
                                                             Home




                                     EXIT
                                                            Business




                                                                Client 1 vehicle
                                                                Client 2 (overlapping) vehicle




Photograph of off-street parking area from above:




                                                   Client 1 vehicle


                                  Client 2 (overlapping) vehicle




                      BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                                           5
                   Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
Floor Plan:
Clients would enter
through the main front
door using the paved
sidewalk in front of the
                                             NO ACCESS –
house. (Ref. “Parking
and Construction Plan”,
                                           Private Residence
Sheet 5).

Upon entry, Clients walk
down the steps of the
split-level entrance to the
basement where the
studio is.




Upon entry to the studio,
overlapping clients would
have the availability to sit
in a “Waiting Area”                                   NO ACCESS -
                                                                                        NO ACCESS –
shown and pictured on           Waiting Area          Mechanical/       Restroom
                                                                                      Private Bedroom
Sheet 7.                                               Laundry

Clients are able to use
the restroom shown.


                                        Lesson    P                                  NO ACCESS –
                                                  I
                                         Area     A
                                                                                   Private Bedroom
                                                  N
                                                  O




                                  BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                                                        6
                               Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
Studio Photos:
Waiting Area, pictured
right, for overlapping
clients.




Lesson area, pictured
right, where business
(piano lessons, voice
lessons, acting lessons,
headshots) will be
conducted.
                              BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                    7
                           Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
Entry/Restroom:

Restroom for clients is
accessible
before/during/after the
lesson.




Entryway of residence/
business. Clients will
enter the home and
head down the steps to
the left to access the
studio.
                             BEYOND 2135, LLC Home Business
                                                                   8
                          Conditional Use Permit -- Attachment 1
