COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA

January 22, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121) for its Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams. Please see the reverse side of this agenda
for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any
       projects scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please
       see the Public Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Project CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008
              Public hearing and potential action on a request by Nathan Anderson for conditional use
              permit and preliminary plat approval to construct a 10-unit live-work townhome
              development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of Planning Commission Minutes from January 8, 2025


       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: February 5, 2025
Public Comment Policy
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m.
Work Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
    1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific
        projects on the meeting agenda.
    2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on
        the meeting agenda which were noticed as public hearings.
Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal
comments cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the
city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not
an opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to
three minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is
present to summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For
written comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the
meeting, they must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, January 21, 2025, the day prior
to the meeting. Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission
after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff
presentation, 3. Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5.
Chair closes public hearing, if applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission
motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the
planning commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the
commission is ready to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a
unanimous vote of the commission. The commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in
the evening and not heard, to the next regularly scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations
or assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7021 at least 24 hours
prior to the meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, January 17, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the
front foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s
website at www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at
http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 17th DAY OF JANUARY, 2025, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
January 22, 2025

Summary
Project Numbers:
CUP-24-019
& SUB-24-008

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Actions Requested:
Conditional Use Permit
& Preliminary
Subdivision Plat
Approval

Applicant:
Nathan Anderson

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions

Context
Property Owner:
First Security Bank
of Utah

Acreage:
0.48 acres


Request
This staff report encompasses two applications for the same project, which is a proposed 10-unit
live-work townhome development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   CUP-24-019 constitutes the conditional use permit portion of this project, which is
       required as live-work developments are a conditional use in the underlying zone.
   •   SUB-24-008 constitutes the subdivision portion of this project, which is required to divide
       the property into 10 separately owned units.
                                                    Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                    Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.



_____________________________________________________________




                   This vicinity map shows the subject property outlined in blue.




 A Wells Fargo Bank was located at the subject property from 2006-2024. Though the bank building is
                still standing, the location is closed, and the property is listed for sale.

                                                                                        Page 2 of 10
                                                  Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                  Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.




The above zoning map demonstrates the zoning of the subject property (outlined in blue), with the
                             zoning of surrounding properties.




                                                                                       Page 3 of 10
                                                   Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                   Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.




This excerpt from the proposed plan set shows the basic site plan for the project, with full plans
                           included as an attachment to this report.




                                                                                          Page 4 of 10
                                                     Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                     Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Analysis
Proposed Use
The use proposed by this project is a live-work townhome development. Live-work developments
are allowed in the underlying Neighborhood Commercial zone as conditional uses, meaning
they are entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate negative
impacts of the use. The excerpt below from State Code further describes this:

i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed,
   or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed
   use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)

(ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
     detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
     detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)



A live-work development typically includes dwelling units, as well as space for a nonresidential
component, such as office space. The details of this specific live-work development proposal
include:

    •   Ten townhome units, each with three bedrooms, four bathrooms, a two-car garage, and a
        small private yard area
    •   A 9’ x 12’ office space on the ground floor of each unit, separated from the living area
    •   The office space is intended for use by the tenants of each unit, without additional
        employees on site

Staff finds that the proposed use of a live-work development is compliant with the underlying
zoning as an allowed use. Staff has included a recommended condition of approval that the office
space be limited to use by the tenants of the dwelling units, without additional on-site employees,
to alleviate parking demands on site.

Site Design
The existing bank building on site will be fully demolished, and the proposed units will be built as
new construction. As such, the full breadth of site developments standards apply to this new build.
These standards are each detailed below:

Building Setbacks

                                          Code Requirement                       Provided
          Front (South)                     25’ Minimum                             25’
           Side (West)                      25’ Minimum                             25’
           Side (East)                      10’ Minimum                             10’
          Rear (North)                      25’ Minimum                           27.98’



                                                                                         Page 5 of 10
                                                       Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                       Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Staff finds that this proposal fully complies with the setback standards required in the underlying
zone.

Building Height

The maximum height allowed in the underlying Neighborhood Commercial zone is two stories, or
35’, whichever is less. The proposed building height is 30’, which the applicant has broken into
three shorter stories, instead of two stories at the full 35’ height. Because this overall height is less
than the maximum of 35’, staff finds that the ordinance requirement is still met, which aims to limit
building height and minimize impact on neighboring properties.

Outdoor Lighting

                                        Code Requirement                           Provided

        Site Lumens             50,000 Lumens/Net Acre Maximum            50,750 Lumens/0.48 Acres

                                Full Cutoff and Downward Oriented         Full Cutoff and Downward
   Fixtures and Lumens
                                Fixtures for Bulbs over 500 Lumens         Oriented Fixtures Used

     Bulb Kelvin Rating                   3,500 Maximum                              3,500

        Average Site
                                 Between 0.5 and 2.5 Foot Candles              1.23 Foot Candles
        Illumination

       Maximum Site
                                          10 Foot Candles                      7.8 Foot Candles
        Illumination

    Property Boundary
                                     0.2 Foot Candle Maximum                   1.0 Foot Candles
       Illumination

                                  0.1 Foot Candle Maximum at 5’
       Light Trespass                                                          0.1 Foot Candles
                                       Beyond Property Lines

       Fixture Height                       25’ Maximum                          12’ Maximum


    Pedestrian Lighting        Bollards Along Pedestrian Walkways              Bollards Provided



Staff finds that this proposal is compliant with the city’s outdoor lighting standards, except for the
site lumens and the property boundary illumination, which currently exceed the maximum
allowance. As such, staff has included a recommended condition of approval that these be
rectified in the plan set submitted at during the building permit process.




                                                                                             Page 6 of 10
                                                      Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                      Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Landscaping

                                           Code Requirement                         Provided
 Site Landscaping Percentage          None (Due to Property Size)                     26%
                                      6” Curbing Between Parking
            Curbing                                                                6” Curb Wall
                                         Areas and Landscaping
           Clear View                     15’ Clearview Triangle           15’ Clearview Triangle
                                           Trees, Shrubs, and
  Landscaping Components                 Groundcovers Used in           Appropriate Variety Utilized
                                           Landscaped Areas
    Landscaping in Parking            5’ Landscaping Buffer along       6’ Landscaping Strip Buffer
           Areas                              Parking Areas                  along Parking Area
                                         Drip Emitters, Separate
      Water Conservation                                               To be Verified in Final Plans at
                                    Irrigation Valves, Water-Sense
          Irrigation                                                       Building Permit Phase
                                                  Label
                                      3” of Mulch with 50% Plant        3” of Mulch with 68% Plant
   Landscape Bed Coverage
                                                Coverage                         Coverage
              Lawn                            20% Maximum                          7.5%
                                                                        4’ Fencing Around Unit Yard
                                                                           Spaces, Existing Block
            Fencing                 None (Due to Proposed Use)         Retaining Wall and Chain Link
                                                                         Fencing to Remain at Site
                                                                                 Perimeter


Staff finds that this proposal is compliant with the city’s landscaping standards, with final details
such as irrigation plans being confirmed during the building permit process.

Parking

                                  ITE Ratio             Code Requirement                 Provided
                                                                                     20 Stalls (two-car
                                1.27 Stalls per       @10 Dwelling Units = 13
     Dwelling Units                                                                   garage for each
                                Dwelling Unit                Stalls
                                                                                           unit)
                                                                                      4 Stalls (visitor
                             2.84 Stalls for 1,000
      Office Space                                    @ 1,080 sq. ft. = 3 Stalls     parking at north of
                                    sq. ft.
                                                                                            site)
                                                                                      4 Stalls (visitor
     Visitor Parking       No Code Requirement         No Code Requirement           parking at north of
                                                                                            site)


Staff finds this proposal is compliant with the city’s parking requirements, which are specified in
the ITE Parking Generation Manual. However, staff is concerned regarding the potential negative
impact of townhome visitors parking on the adjacent cul-de-sac, Oak Shadow Cir. This circle is a
public street, which allows for public parking by default. However, given its single point of ingress
and egress, as well as its relatively narrow width and short length, visitor parking may create
disproportionate congestion and access issues. As such, staff has included a recommended
condition of approval that signage be installed at the entrance to the townhome development, as

                                                                                             Page 7 of 10
                                                     Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                     Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

well as along Oak Shadow Cir., which signifies that townhome visitor parking is not allowed on the
cul-de-sac. Should the applicant desire additional visitor parking to be available for the
development’s tenants and their visitors, they will need to provide such parking onsite, or through a
shared parking agreement with neighboring businesses.

Roof Appurtenances, Snow Removal, and Waste Management

No roof appurtenances, such as roof-mounted air conditioning units or mechanical equipment, are
proposed as part of this project. Several pad-mounted utilities will be installed instead. These
utilities must be screened from surrounding properties, per the screening requirements in the
underlying Neighborhood Commercial zone. This screening will be verified during the building
permit process.

Snow removal throughout the development will be handled privately, and a snow storage area is
provided to the north of development, near the visitor parking stalls. Staff has included a
recommended condition of approval that this snow storage area not obstruct any of the visitor
stalls.

Waste management will be conducted through individual cans for each unit, rather than a
collective dumpster. The cans will be stored in their individual garages and placed along Bengal
Blvd. for pickup on the designated removal day.

Staff finds that the proposal is compliant with regulations for roof appurtenances, snow removal,
and waste management.

Comments from Other City Departments

The Public Works Department and Unified Fire Authority have both conducted a preliminary review
of the proposed project. (Notably, both departments will conduct a full technical review during the
building permit process). At this preliminary point, the review comments included:

   •   Update the traffic study to verify on-site parking space counts and ADA compliance, as well
       as to update the signal at the intersection of Bengal Blvd. and 3500 E.
   •   Provide a sight distance analysis for the proposed development.
   •   Assess whether right-of-way dedication will be required to encompass all frontage
       improvements required for this project.
   •   Provide storm drain design details and calculations.

Staff finds that these preliminary comments can be appropriately addressed during the building
permit process. Should addressing these comments affect approval issued by the Planning
Commission, the applicant may be required to return to Planning Commission for approval of the
revised project.

Planning Commission Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for administrative applications, including the
conditional use approval and preliminary plat approval requested by this project. The details
of such authority are included below:


                                                                                        Page 8 of 10
                                                    Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                    Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a public
meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other factors. The
planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use; approve the proposed
conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions; postpone decision pending
consideration of additional information to be submitted by the applicant; or deny the proposed
conditional use. (19.84.080)

A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with
applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional
use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to
achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)

Following a review of the preliminary plat by the planning commission, the community
development department and other interested city departments, the planning commission shall
act on the plat as submitted or modified. (12.12.030)

Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The application was made pursuant to Title 12 and Title 19 of Cottonwood Heights City
       Code;
   3. Public noticing for this project was provided in accordance with local and state
       requirements;
   4. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
       in which it is to be located;
   5. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
       health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
       vicinity;
   6. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
       compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
   7. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
       to be located;
   8. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
       the conditions imposed;
   9. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
       assured;
   10. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
   11. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
       imposed on the applicant or owner;
   12. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
   13. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
   14. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
       and visual impacts;
   15. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;


                                                                                        Page 9 of 10
                                                     Planning Commission – January 22, 2025
                                     Projects CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   16. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   17. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   18. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.

If approved by the Planning Commission, this project will then undergo a full technical review
for compliance with all city standards prior to final plat approval and recordation and building
permit issuance. Technical correction items will be identified in this review and provided to the
applicant.

Recommended Conditions of Approval
   1. The office space provided as part of this project shall be limited to use by the tenants of the
      townhome units, without additional employees on site.
   2. The site lumens and property boundary illumination must be reduced to comply with city
      code.
   3. Ground-mounted utilities must be screened per the requirements in the underlying zone.
   4. Signage shall be installed by the developer at the entrance to the townhome development,
      as well as along Oak Shadow Cir. which specifies that no townhome visitor parking is
      allowed on this cul-de-sac. All signage is subject to approval, and shall meet specifications
      provided by the Public Works Department, prior to issuance of the first building permit for
      the project.
   5. Snow storage shall not obstruct any of the visitor parking stalls.

Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission approve CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 with the recommended conditions included in
the staff report.
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 based on the findings and recommendations,
and including the recommended conditions listed in the staff report dated January 22, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008 based on the following findings…

   •     List findings for denial…

Attachments
   1.    Preliminary Plat
   2.    Preliminary Construction Plans
   3.    Landscaping Plan
   4.    Outdoor Lighting Plan



                                                                                       Page 10 of 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7635 SOUTH




                                                                                                  BRIGHTON LOFTS PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DOVERHILL DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOUNTAIN ESTATES DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUMMER HILL DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3545 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3500 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AVO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAT
                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 26,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OAKSHADOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WA
                                                                                                                                                                                    TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CIRCLE
                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7800 SOUTH                         BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                            JANUARY 10, 2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OMB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OAKLEDGE RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOUND BRASS CAP MONUMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH RING & LID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1" = 20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VICINITY MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W 76.2 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (S 12° '41" W 76.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0        10'       20'                     40'             60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOUND PLUG ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT LINE EXTENSION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 12°2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I, DAVID B. DRAPER DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT I AM A PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR, AND THAT I HOLD CERTIFICATE NO.:6861599 IN ACCORDANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WITH TITLE 58, CHAPTER 22, PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERS AND PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR'S ACT, HAVE COMPLETED A SURVEY OF THE PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OAKSHADOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NOTES                                                            DESCRIBED ON THIS PLAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 17-23-17 AND HAVE VERIFIED ALL MEASUREMENTS AND HAVE PLACED MONUMENT AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPRESENTED ONT HIS PLAT, AS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF UTAH. I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT BY THE AUTHORITY OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL, A SITE-SPECIFIC GEOTECHNICAL ASSESSMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WILL BE PERFORMED FOR EACH PROPOSED BUILDING. DETAILED STRUCTURAL LOADS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNERS, I HAVE MADE A SURVEY OF THE TRACT OF LAND SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AND DESCRIBED HEREON, AND HAVE SUBDIVIDED SAID TRACT INTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOTS, AND STREETS, TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS, HEREAFTER TO BE KNOW AS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PERMANENT SHORING/RETAINING WALLS WILL BE EVALUATED AND INCORPORATED INTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINAL GEOLOGICAL HAZARD/SLOPE STABILITY STUDY.                                                                                                                                      BRIGHTON LOFTS PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2. COMMON AREA SERVES AS A PUBLIC UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                   FOUND 2" DOME MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND THAT AT THE SAME HAS BEEN CORRECTLY SURVEYED AND MARKED ON THE GROUND AS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COX, SEAN & ADRIENNE
                                                                                                          LOT 3                                              WITH RING & LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22-26-480-056
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                       OAKSHADOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (S 0°03'40" W 25.00')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°04'17" W 25.02'
                                                                                                       SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A PARCEL OF LAND LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 26, TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, SAID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL BEING CONVEYED TO FIRST SECURITY BANK BY WARRANTY DEED RECORDED AS ENTRY NO. 5165429 IN BOOK 6384, AT PAGE 2632, IN THE
                                                                                                        BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER, SAID PARCEL BEING DESCRIBED MORE PARTICULARLY AS FOLLOWS:


                                                                                                         PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°56'40" E 129.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE NORTH RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 7800 SOUTH STREET, SAID POINT BEING SOUTH 89°56'40" WEST 440.00 FEET ALONG THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SECTION LINE AND NORTH 00°03'40" WEST 40 FEET FROM THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 26, AND RUNNING THENCE SOUTH 89°56'40" WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129.00 FEET ALONG SAID NORTH RIGHT OF WAY LINE TO A POINT ON THE EAST RIGHT OF WAY OF OAKSHADOW CIRCLE; THENCE NORTH 00°03'40" WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°56'40" E 25.00'                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST 26.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EAST 21.53'                                                                                     EAST 21.53'                                                                                                                                                                                                                            163.00 FEET ALONG SAID EAST RIGHT OF WAY LINE TO THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 9, OAKSHADOW SUBDIVISION, AS RECORDED IN THE OFFICE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER IN BOOK 93-3 OF PLATS AT PAGE 29, IN THE OFFICE OF SAID COUNTY RECORDER; THENCE NORTH 89°56'40" EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH 4.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129.00 FEET ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT 9 TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER THEREOF AND THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SAID PARCEL; THENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH 18.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH 18.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 4.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      #COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH 00°03'40" EAST 163.00 FEET ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID PARCEL TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27.6'
                                                                                                                                   FOUND PLUG ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTAINS: 21,027 SQUARE FEET OR 0.483 ACRES (10 LOTS, COMMON AREA AND DEDICATION)
                                                                                                                               LOT LINE EXTENSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH 4.50'                                                                        EAST 5.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 0.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEST 21.53'                                      SOUTH 4.50'                                     WEST 21.53'                  SOUTH 0.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST 5.56'                                                                                                                 WEST 0.29'                                                                                       9.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST 34.67'                                                                                                     EAST 34.67'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A L L A ND S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IO N                  UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST 0.29'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDING                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BISHOP OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 1                                                                                                                      LOT 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.37'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22-26-480-042




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.02'
                                                                                                            LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 898 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                  899 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.021 ACRES                                                                                                                 0.021 ACRES
                                                                                                         OAKSHADOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7763 SOUTH                                                                                                                   3437 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                        OAKSHADOW CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST 40.24'                                                                                                                  EAST 40.29'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE:   1-10-25
                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION

                                                                                                                                                                                        (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T E O F UT A H
                                                                                                          BOOK 93-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 2                                                                                                                       LOT 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.00'
                                     LEGEND                                                                PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                885 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                  886 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DAVID B. DRAPER,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 0°03'40" W 163.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S 0°03'40" E 163.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                 0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L.S. LICENSE NO. 6861599




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              138.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7767 SOUTH                                                                                                                   3433 EAST
                                  SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EAST 40.25'                                                                                                                  EAST 40.29'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OWNER'S DEDICATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 0°01'18" E 109.98'
                                  SECTION LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH 110.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH 111.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH 111.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 3                                                                                                                       LOT 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.00'
                                  MONUMENT LINE/CENTER LINE OF ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  885 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                  886 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KNOW BY ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT THE UNDERSIGNED IS/ARE THE OWNER (S) OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED TRACT OF LAND AND DO HEREBY
                                                                                                                               FOUND PLUG ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                 0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CAUSE THE SAME TO BE SUBDIVIDED INTO LOTS, PARCELS, AND STREETS, TOGETHER WITH EASEMENTS, AS SET FORTH, TO BE HEREAFTER KNOWN AS:
                                  LOT LINE
                                                                                                                               LOT LINE EXTENSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7769 SOUTH                                                                                                                   3431 EAST
                                  ADJOINING LOT LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST 40.25'                                                                                                                  EAST 40.29'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRIGHTON LOFTS PUD
                                  RIGHT OF WAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               #COM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND DO HEREBY DEDICATE TO COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, FOR PERPETUAL USE, ALL ROADS AND OTHER AREAS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT AS INTENDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FOR PUBLIC AND UTILITY USES. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNERS ALSO HEREBY CONVEY TO ANY AND ALL PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES A PERPETUAL, NON
                                  PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 4                                                                                                                       LOT 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT OVER THE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS SHOWN ON THIS PLAT, THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  885 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                  886 SQ.FT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND OPERATION OF UTILITY LINES AND FACILITIES. THE UNDERSIGNED OWNERS ALSO DO HEREBY CONVEY ANY OTHER EASEMENTS, AS SHOWN ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                 0.020 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THIS PLAT, TO THE PARTIES INDICATED BY THOSE EASEMENTS , THE SAME TO BE USED FOR THE INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF THE
                                  EASEMENT LINE/RIGHT OF WAY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7777 SOUTH                                                                                                                   3429 EAST                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FACILITIES, OR FOR THE TYPICAL PURPOSES, INDICATED FOR THOSE EASEMENTS, AS SHOWN HEREON.

                                  SUBDIVISION BOUNDARY CORNER, COPPER PLUG OR REBAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST 40.26'                                                                                                                  EAST 40.29'
                                  & CAP OR NAIL & WASHER STAMPED "MCNEIL ENGR"                              LOT 1
                                  PROPOSED FIRE HYDRANT                                                  OAKSHADOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 5                                                                                                                      LOT 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN WITNESS WHEREBY ________ HAVE HEREUNTO SET ________________________ THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________, A.D. 20____.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21.98'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23.17'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23.17'
                                  PRIVATE AREA
                                                                                                         SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              926 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.021 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              927 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.021 ACRES
                                                                                                          BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7779 SOUTH                                                                                                                   3427 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.0'
                                  LIMITED COMMON AREA
                                                                                                           PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEST 5.56'                                                         WEST 34.67'                                                                                                      WEST 34.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRIGHTON LOFTS, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST 0.29'                                                   SOUTH 1.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 1.17'                                                            EAST 0.29'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 23.78'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOUTH 23.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Δ=89°59'40"                                                                                                                                                WEST 5.62'                                                                                                                                                                                                _________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R=25.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BY:
                                  COMMON AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L=39.27'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ITS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              #COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CB=S 45°03'30" E                                                                                                                                                             9.6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CL=35.35'                                                                                                                                                                                                                           POINT OF BEGINNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25.00'                                                                      34.00'                                                26.00'                                                         44.00'                                                                               NOT SET
                                  AREA DEDICATED TO COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEDICATED TO COTTONWOOD                                            S 89°56'40" W 129.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEIGHTS CITY FOR ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOUND PLUG ON PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PURPOSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LINE EXTENSION 2.0' FEET
                                  SHARED INGRESS/EGRESS AND EMERGENCY SERVICES EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N 0°03'40" W 40.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N 0°03'40" W 40.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3500 EAST
                      SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SECTION 26,
                      TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                      SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN.
                      FOUND 2" DOME MONUMENT WITH RING & LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BENGAL BLVD (7800 SOUTH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
                                     936.66'                                                                                            1143.84'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        129.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                            440.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BASIS OF BEARING S 89°56'40" W 2649.50' (2649.40')
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                 FOUND 2" DOME MONUMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STATE OF UTAH
                                                 WITH RING & LID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COUNTY OF SALT LAKE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SECTION 26,     ON THE __________ DAY OF _______________ A.D., 20____, PERSONALLY APPEARED BEFORE ME ________________________, WHO BEING BY ME DULY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,    SWORN DID SAY THE HE IS THE _________________________________ OF ___________________________________________, AND THAT THE WITHIN AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN.    FOREGOING INSTRUMENT WAS SIGNED VOLUNTARILY FOR SAID FOR THE USES AND PURPOSES HEREIN MENTIONED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOUND 2" DOME MONUMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WITH RING & LID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MY COMMISSION EXPIRES: __________________________                                                            ___________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RESIDING IN SALT LAKE COUNTY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CITY ENGINEER                                                                                                           PREPARED BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RECORD OF SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               APPROVED THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________ A.D., 20____
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIGHTON LOFTS PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.O.S. NO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 26,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOWNSHIP 2 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY - SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COUNTY SURVEYOR REVIEWER                                                                      DATE                                      CITY ENGINEER, MATTHEW F. SHIPP, P.E.


      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL                                                                               BOARD OF HEALTH                                                                                                                                                                                          PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                              CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
PRESENTED TO THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL THIS _________________ DAY OF            APPROVED THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________ A.D., 20____                                                                                            APPROVED THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________ A.D., 20____,                                                                                                                                                          APPROVED AS TO FORM THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________ A.D., 20____                                                                  APPROVED THIS _________________ DAY OF _____________________ A.D., 20____         RECORD NO. ______________________________.
_____________________ A.D., 20____.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BY THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATE OF UTAH, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, RECORDED AND FILED AT THE REQUEST OF ____________________________________________________________

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE: _________________________________ TIME: ____________________________ BOOK: __________________________ PAGE: _________________________
MICHAEL J. WEICHERS, MAYOR


ATTEST: BARBARA HIGGINS, CITY RECORDER                                                    DIRECTOR                                                                                                                                                             COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                                                                                                                                         WM SHANE TOPHAM, CITY ATTORNEY                                                                                                                        DIRECTOR, MICHAEL JOHNSON                                                                                                FEE $                                                                                                     DEPUTY SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH




                                                                                                            BRIGHTON LOFTS                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE: 1" = 10'



                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION PLANS                                                                                                                                                0         5'              10'                     20'                      30'


                                                                                                                                         3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD                                                           SITE
                                                                                                                                     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7590 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7635 SOUTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DO
                                              S 89°56'20" W 25.00'
                                                                                                 N 89°56'40" E 129.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MOUNTAIN ESTATES DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMER HILL DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BLV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3545 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3500 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AVO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SAT
                                                                                                                SURVEYED PARCEL CONTAINS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OAKSHADOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIRCLE
                                                                                                                  21,027 SQUARE FEET OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7800 SOUTH                           BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                        0.483 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OMB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OAKLEDGE RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EYC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HO N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NE
                                                                                                                                                                                         CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DR
                                                                                                                                                                                         BISHOP OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS                                                                                 VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                          CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS                                                                                          SCALE: N.T.S.

                                                                                                                                                                                                  22-26-480-042

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWING INDEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET                                                                            DESCRIPTION
OAKSHADOW CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C0.00                                CIVIL COVER SHEET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C0.01                                GENERAL NOTES, LEGEND AND ABBREVIATIONS
                (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C1.01                                CIVIL SITE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C2.01                                GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C2.10                                EROSION CONTROL PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C5.01                                  CIVIL DETAILS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C5.02                                CIVIL DETAILS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C5.03                                CIVIL DETAILS
                                                                     N 0°03'40" W 163.00'




                                                                                                                                                             S 0°03'40" E 163.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL WORK AND MATERIALS FOR WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MUST CONFORM TO SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PUBLIC UTILITIES STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL WORK AND MATERIALS FOR SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MUST CONFORM TO MT OLYMPUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IMPROVMENT DISTRICT STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ALL WORK AND MATERIALS MUST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONFORM TO APWA STANDARDS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEVELOPER & OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DEVELOPER: CITY VENTURES, LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONTACT: NATHAN ANDERSON
                                                                                                                                                             X                                                                                                                                     2383 EAST 900 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHONE: 801-599-0207




                                                                                                                                     EB    TR
                                                                                                                         S 89°56'40" W 129.00'

                                                                                            SD                                                                                      SD
GENERAL NOTES                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES: CONTINUED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LEGEND
1.1 COMPLIANCE                                                                                1.7 UTILITIES
  1. ALL WORK TO CONFORM TO GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY'S STANDARDS, SPECIFICATIONS AND              1. THE LOCATIONS OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS ARE BASED ON FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW                   EXISTING                                                              NEW             EXISTING
     REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                  SURVEYS AND LOCAL UTILITY COMPANY RECORDS. IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S FULL
  2. ALL CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS SHALL BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE CONTRACT                      RESPONSIBILITY TO CONTACT THE VARIOUS UTILITY COMPANIES EITHER DIRECT OR THROUGH
     DOCUMENTS AND THE MOST RECENT, ADOPTED EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING: INTERNATIONAL                BLUE STAKE TO LOCATE THEIR FACILITIES PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                     MONUMENT LINE                                                                     SECTION CORNER (FOUND)
     BUILDING CODE (IBC), THE INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE, STATE DRINKING WATER                 2. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY BY POTHOLING BOTH THE VERTICAL AND HORIZONTAL LOCATION OF
     REGULATIONS, APWA MANUAL OF STANDARD PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS, ADA ACCESSIBILITY               ALL EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO INSTALLING ANY NEW LINES. NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION                                                                                                                                                      CENTER LINE
     GUIDELINES.                                                                                    SHALL BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR DAMAGE AND REPAIR TO THESE FACILITIES CAUSED
  3. ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE AS SHOWN ON THESE PLANS. ANY REVISIONS MUST HAVE PRIOR               BY HIS WORK FORCE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBJECT PROPERTY LINE                                                             SECTION CORNER (NOT FOUND)
     WRITTEN APPROVAL.                                                                          3. CONTRACTOR MUST START AT LOW END OF ALL NEW GRAVITY UTILITY LINES. MECHANICAL
                                                                                                    SUB-CONTRACTOR MUST BE PROVIDED CIVIL SITE DRAWINGS FOR COORDINATION AND TO                                                                                                                                                               ADJACENT PROPERTY LINE
1.2 PERMITTING AND INSPECTIONS                                                                      CHECK THE FLOW FROM THE LOWEST POINT IN BUILDING TO THE FIELD VERIFIED CONNECTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STREET MONUMENT
  1. PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING                 AT THE EXISTING MAIN. NO EXTRA COMPENSATION IS TO BE PAID TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT LINE
     SURE THAT ALL REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS HAVE BEEN OBTAINED. NO                            WORK HAVING TO BE REDONE DUE TO FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRASS CAP MONUMENT
     CONSTRUCTION OR FABRICATION SHALL BEGIN UNTIL THE CONTRACTOR HAS RECEIVED                  4. CONTRACTOR IS TO VERIFY LOCATION, DEPTH, SIZE, TYPE, AND OUTSIDE DIAMETERS OF                                                                                                                                                              DITCH FLOWLINE
     THOROUGHLY REVIEWED PLANS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS APPROVED BY ALL OF THE                           UTILITIES IN THE FIELD BY POTHOLING A MINIMUM OF 300 FEET AHEAD, PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POWER POLE
     PERMITTING AUTHORITIES.                                                                        TO AVOID CONFLICTS WITH DESIGNED PIPELINE GRADE AND ALIGNMENT. EXISTING UTILITY                                                                                                                     X                         X           FENCE LINE
  2. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SCHEDULING AND NOTIFYING ARCHITECT/ENGINEER OR                   INFORMATION SHOWN ON PLANS OR OBTAINED FROM UTILITY COMPANIES OR BLUE STAKED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UTILITY POLE
     INSPECTING AUTHORITY 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF COVERING UP ANY PHASE OF                           MUST BE ASSUMED AS APPROXIMATE, REQUIRING FIELD VERIFICATION.                                                                                                                                    ATMS                     atms            ATMS CABLE
     CONSTRUCTION REQUIRING OBSERVATION.                                                        5. CULINARY WATER AND FIRE SERVICE LINES TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GUY ANCHOR
  3. ANY WORK IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WILL REQUIRE PERMITS FROM THE APPROPRIATE,                 GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                               TV                         tv          CABLE TV LINE                                     GUY               GUY
     CITY, COUNTY OR STATE AGENCY CONTROLLING THE ROAD AND WITH APPROPRIATE                     6. SANITARY SEWER MAINS AND LATERALS TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 POWER TRANSFORMER
     INSPECTIONS.                                                                                   GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY SEWER DISTRICT STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                C                          c           COMMUNICATIONS LINE                                      TRANS            TRANS
                                                                                                7. STORM SEWER TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRAFFIC SIGNAL CABINET
1.3 COORDINATION & VERIFICATION                                                                     STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.                                                                                                                                                                      FO                         fo          FIBER-OPTIC CABLE
  1. ALL DIMENSIONS, GRADES & UTILITY DESIGNS SHOWN ON THE PLANS SHALL BE VERIFIED BY           8. ALL STORM DRAIN AND IRRIGATION CONDUITS SHALL BE INSTALLED WITH WATER TIGHT JOINTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIGHT POLE
     THE CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY                                  AND CONNECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                    F                         f           FIRE LINE
     ARCHITECT/ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH CONSTRUCTION              9. ALL STORM DRAIN PIPE PENETRATIONS INTO BOXES SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED WITH WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TELEPHONE RISER
                                                                                                    TIGHT SEALS ON THE OUTSIDE AND GROUTED SMOOTH WITH A NON-SHRINK GROUT ON THE                                                                                                                      IRR                      irr            IRRIGATION LINE                                         TR                TR
     FOR NECESSARY PLAN OR GRADE CHANGES. NO EXTRA COMPENSATION SHALL BE PAID TO THE
     CONTRACTOR FOR WORK HAVING TO BE REDONE DUE TO DIMENSIONS OR GRADES SHOWN                      INSIDE. CONDUITS SHALL BE CUT OFF FLUSH WITH THE INSIDE OF THE BOX.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T                 T           TELEPHONE MANHOLE
                                                                                                10. NO CHANGE IN THE DESIGN OF UTILITIES AS SHOWN WILL BE MADE BY THE CONTRACTOR                                                                                                                       G                          g           NATURAL GAS LINE
     INCORRECTLY ON THESE PLANS, IF NOT VERIFIED AND NOTIFICATION OF CONFLICTS HAVE NOT
     BEEN BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE ARCHITECT/ENGINEER.                                       WITHOUT THE WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY, OR OTHER AUTHORITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC SIGNAL BOX
  2. CONTRACTOR MUST VERIFY ALL EXISTING CONDITIONS BEFORE BIDDING AND BRING UP ANY                 HAVING JURISDICTION OVER THAT UTILITY.                                                                                                                                                            OHC                     ohc             OVERHEAD COMMUNICATIONS
     QUESTIONS BEFOREHAND. NO ALLOWANCE WILL BE MADE FOR DISCREPANCIES OR OMISSIONS             11. ALL STORM DRAIN CONDUITS AND BOXES SHALL BE CLEAN AND FREE OF ROCKS, DIRT, AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                W                W            WATER MANHOLE
     THAT CAN BE EASILY OBSERVED.                                                                   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS PRIOR TO FINAL INSPECTION.                                                                                                                                                    OHP                     ohp             OVERHEAD POWER LINE
  3. CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE WITH ALL OTHER DISCIPLINES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER VALVE
     LANDSCAPE PLANS, SITE ELECTRICAL SITE LIGHTING PLANS AND ELECTRICAL SERVICE TO THE       1.8 SURVEY CONTROL                                                                                                                                                                                      OHT                     oht             OVERHEAD TELEPHONE LINE
     BUILDING(S), MECHANICAL PLANS FOR LOCATION OF SERVICES TO THE BUILDING(S), INCLUDING       1. CONTRACTOR MUST PROVIDE A REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR OR PERSONS UNDER THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WM               WM           WATER METER
     FIRE PROTECTION, ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR DIMENSIONS, ACCESSIBLE ROUTES, ETC.,             SUPERVISION OF A REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR TO SET STAKES FOR THE ALIGNMENT AND                                                                                                                     OHTV                     ohtv            OVERHEAD TELEVISION LINE
     NOT SHOWN ON CIVIL PLANS.                                                                     GRADE OF EACH MAIN AND/OR FACILITY AS SHOWN ON THE PLANS. THE STAKES SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P                         p           POWER LINE
  4. CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE LOCATION OF NEW TELEPHONE SERVICE, GAS SERVICE,                   MARKED WITH THE HORIZONTAL LOCATION (STATION) AND VERTICAL LOCATION (GRADE) WITH
     CABLE, ETC. TO BUILDING WITH THE APPROPRIATE UTILITY COMPANY. FOR TELEPHONE,                  CUTS AND/OR FILLS TO THE APPROVED GRADE OF THE MAIN AND OR FACILITY AS SHOWN ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                 S           SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
     CONTRACTOR TO FURNISH CONDUIT, PLYWOOD BACKBOARD, AND GROUND WIRE, AS REQUIRED.               THE PLANS.                                                                                                                                                                                         P/C                     p/c             POWER/COMMUNICATIONS LINE
                                                                                                2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROTECT ALL STAKES AND MARKERS FOR VERIFICATION PURPOSES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               p/t                                                                    SSCO              SSCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P/T                                     POWER/TELEPHONE LINE
1.4 SAFETY AND PROTECTION                                                                       3. CONTRACTOR WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR FURNISHING, MAINTAINING, OR RESTORING ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SION ENGI
                                                                                                   MONUMENTS AND REFERENCE MARKS WITHIN THE PROJECT SITE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SD                SD           STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
  1. CONTRACTOR IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MEANS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION,
  2. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SAFETY OF THE PROJECT AND SHALL MEET ALL OSHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P/T/C                    p/t/c           POWER/TELE/COMM LINE                                                                                                                      ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STORM DRAIN CURB INLET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRO
      REQUIREMENTS.                                                                           1.9 AMERICAN DISABILITIES ACT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01-09-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD                      rd             ROOF DRAIN LINE
  3. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONFORMING TO LOCAL AND FEDERAL CODES GOVERNING              1. PEDESTRIAN / ADA ROUTES SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING SPECIFICATIONS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN                             No. 11088925-2202
      SHORING AND BRACING OF EXCAVATIONS AND TRENCHES, AND FOR THE PROTECTION OR                   *ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 2.08% (1:48) MAXIMUM CROSS SLOPE.                                                                                                                                                                     sw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW                                      SECONDARY WATER LINE
      WORKERS AND PUBLIC.                                                                          *ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 5.00% (1:20) MAXIMUM RUNNING SLOPE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                SD           STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT                                     DANIEL J.
  4. CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE ALL MEASURES NECESSARY TO PROTECT ALL EXISTING PUBLIC AND               *RAMPS SHALL HAVE A 8.33% (1:12) MAXIMUM RUNNING SLOPE.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY, ROADWAYS, AND UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS. DAMAGE TO EXISTING                  2. ADA PARKING STALLS AND ADJACENT ROUTES SHALL HAVE A 2.08% (1:48) MAXIMUM SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S                         s           SANITARY SEWER LINE                                                                                                                       CANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STORM DRAIN COMBO BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
      IMPROVEMENTS CAUSED BY THE CONTRACTOR MUST BE REPAIRED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT                  SLOPE IN ANY DIRECTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TE      TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  st          STEAM LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OF U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST
      HIS/HER EXPENSE TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE OWNER OF SAID IMPROVEMENTS.                    3. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ADHERE TO THE ABOVE SPECIFICATIONS. IN THE EVENT OF A                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MB               MB           MAILBOX
  5. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO KEEP ALL CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE APPROVED                DISCREPANCY IN THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE                                                                                                                          SD                      sd             STORM DRAIN LINE
      PROJECT LIMITS. THIS INCLUDES, BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO, VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT STAGING,         ARCHITECT/ENGINEER PRIOR TO ANY CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SIGN
      MATERIAL STORAGE AND LIMITS OF TRENCH EXCAVATION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T                         t           TELEPHONE LINE
  6. IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO OBTAIN PERMISSION AND/OR EASEMENTS FROM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FLOW DIRECTION
      THE APPROPRIATE GOVERNMENT AGENCY AND/OR INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY OWNER(S) FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T/C                      t/c            TELEPHONE/COMM LINE
      WORK OR STAGING OUTSIDE OF THE PROJECT LIMITS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 44.00            44.00
  7. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE BARRICADES, SIGNS, FLASHERS, OTHER EQUIPMENT AND FLAG                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UD                      ud             UNDERDRAIN                                         TOC              EX TOC        SPOT ELEVATION
      PERSONS NECESSARY TO INSURE THE SAFETY OF WORKERS AND VISITORS. ALL
      CONSTRUCTION SIGNING, BARRICADING, AND TRAFFIC DELINEATION SHALL CONFORM TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UGC                     ugc             UNDERGROUND COMMUNICATIONS
      "MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES", LATEST EDITION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONIFEROUS TREE
  8. CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH LOCAL NOISE ORDINANCE STANDARDS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UGP                     ugp             UNDERGROUND POWER LINE
  9. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR DUST CONTROL ACCORDING TO GOVERNING AGENCY
      STANDARDS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UGT                     ugt             UNDERGROUND TELEPHONE LINE
  10. CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE ALL NECESSARY AND PROPER PRECAUTIONS TO PROTECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DECIDUOUS TREE
      ADJACENT PROPERTIES FROM ANY AND ALL DAMAGE THAT MAY OCCUR FROM STORM WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UGTV                     ugtv            UNDERGROUND TELEVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
      RUNOFF AND/OR DEPOSITION OF DEBRIS RESULTING FROM ANY AND ALL WORK IN CONNECTION
      WITH CONSTRUCTION. SUBMIT A STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN, IF REQUIRED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                          w           WATER LINE
  11. WORK IN PUBLIC STREETS, ONCE BEGUN, SHALL BE PROSECUTED TO COMPLETION WITHOUT
      DELAY AS TO PROVIDE MINIMUM INCONVENIENCE TO ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS AND TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                    [ 72 ]                  4572




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTOUR LINE
      THE TRAVELING PUBLIC.
  12. CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL NECESSARY HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL TRANSITIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CURB & GUTTER (STD)
      BETWEEN NEW CONSTRUCTION AND EXISTING SURFACES TO PROVIDE FOR PROPER DRAINAGE
      AND FOR INGRESS AND EGRESS TO NEW CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURB & GUTTER (OUTFALL)
  13. NATURAL VEGETATION AND SOIL COVER SHALL NOT BE DISTURBED PRIOR TO ACTUAL
      CONSTRUCTION OF A REQUIRED FACILITY OR IMPROVEMENT. MASS CLEARING OF THE SITE IN
      ANTICIPATION OF CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE AVOIDED. CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC SHALL BE
      LIMITED TO ONE APPROACH TO THE SITE. THE APPROACH SHALL BE DESIGNATED BY THE
      OWNER OR GOVERNING AGENCY.
  14. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE REASONABLE MEASURE TO PROTECT EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS
      FROM DAMAGE AND ALL SUCH IMPROVEMENTS DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR'S OPERATION
      SHALL BE REPAIRED OR RECONSTRUCTED TO THE ENGINEER/OWNER'S SATISFACTION AT THE
      EXPENSE OF THE CONTRACTOR.

1.5 MATERIALS
  1. SITE CONCRETE SHALL BE A MINIMUM 6.5 BAG MIX, 4000 P.S.I. @ 28 DAYS, 4" MAXIMUM SLUMP
     WITH 5 + OR - 1% AIR ENTRAINMENT, UNLESS SPECIFIED OTHERWISE. -SEE SPECIFICATION
     A. SLABS-ON-GRADE WILL BE TYPICALLY SCORED (1/4 THE DEPTH) AT INTERVALS NOT TO
        EXCEED THEIR WIDTH OR 12 TIMES THEIR DEPTH, WHICHEVER IS LESS. SCORING WILL BE
        PLACED TO PREVENT RANDOM CRACKING. FULL DEPTH EXPANSION JOINTS WILL BE PLACED
        AGAINST ANY OBJECT DEEMED TO BE FIXED, CHANGES IN DIRECTION AND AT EQUAL
        INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED 50 FEET.
     B. CONCRETE WATERWAYS, CURBWALLS, MOWSTRIPS, CURB AND GUTTER, ETC. WILL
        TYPICALLY BE SCORED (1/4 THE DEPTH AT INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED 10 FEET AND HAVE
        FULL DEPTH EXPANSION JOINTS AT EQUAL SPACING NOT TO EXCEED 50 FEET.
     C. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL SLABS-ON-GRADE WILL HAVE A MINIMUM 8" TURNED-DOWN
        EDGE TO HELP CONTROL FROST HEAVE.
     D. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL ON-GRADE CONCRETE WILL BE PLACED ON A MINIMUM 4"
        GRAVEL BASE OVER A WELL COMPACTED (90%) SUBGRADE.
     E. ALL EXPOSED SURFACES WILL HAVE A TEXTURED FINISH, RUBBED OR BROOMED. ANY
        "PLASTERING" OF NEW CONCRETE WILL BE DONE WHILE IT IS STILL "GREEN".
     F. ALL JOINTS (CONTROL, CONSTRUCTION OR EXPANSION JOINTS, ETC.) WILL BE SEALED WITH
        A ONE PART POLYURETHANE SEALANT (SEE SPECIFICATION).
  2. ASPHALTIC CONCRETE PAVEMENT SHALL BE A MINIMUM 3" OVER 8" OF COMPACTED (95%) ROAD
     BASE OVER PROPERLY PREPARED AND COMPACTED (90%) SUBGRADE, UNLESS NOTED
     OTHERWISE. -SEE SPECIFICATIONS, AND DETAIL 'D1' SHEET C5.01
     A. ASPHALT COMPACTION SHALL BE A MINIMUM 96% (MARSHALL DESIGN).
     B. SURFACE COARSE SHALL BE ½ " MINUS. MIX DESIGN TO BE SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL AT
        LEAST TWO WEEKS PRIOR TO ANTICIPATED PAVING SCHEDULE.
     C. AC PAVEMENT TO BE A ¼" ABOVE LIP OF ALL GUTTER AFTER COMPACTION.
     D. THICKNESSES OVER 3" WILL BE LAID IN TWO LIFTS WITH THE FIRST LIFT BEING AN APPROVED
        3/4" MINUS DESIGN.

1.6 GRADING / SOILS
  1. SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND
     SPECIFICATIONS AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT, WHICH BY
     REFERENCE ARE A PART OF THE REQUIRED CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS AND IN CASE OF
     CONFLICT SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE, UNLESS SPECIFICALLY NOTED OTHERWISE ON THE PLANS,
     OR IN THE SPECIFICATIONS. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER OF ANY
     DISCREPANCY BETWEEN THE SOILS REPORT AND THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
  2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ABBREVIATIONS
     YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
     IN THE SOILS REPORT.
  3. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR                                                                                                             AC         ACRE                              DIP           DUCTILE IRON PIPE           GM      GAS METER                     PCC          POINT OF COMPOUND CURVE           T        TOWNSHIP
     MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557, EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATIONS WHERE IT                                                                                                        ADA        AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT   DTREE         DECIDUOUS TREE              GMH     GAS MANHOLE                   PI           POINT OF INTERSECTION             TBC      TOP BACK OF CURB
     SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL                                                                                                       ATMS       ADVANCED TRAFFIC MGMT. SYSTEM     DYL           DOUBLE YELLOW LINE          GUY     GUY WIRE                      PM           PARKING METER                     TELE     TELEPHONE
     NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM.                                                                                                                                               B&C        BAR & CAP                         E             EAST                        GV      GAS VALVE                     PP           POWER POLE                        TFC      TOP FACE OF CURB
  4. CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED                                                                                                          BC         BUILDING CORNER                   EB            ELECTRIC BOX                HDPE    HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE     PRC          POINT OF REVERSE CURVE            TFG      TOP FINISH GRADE
     SOILS ENGINEER, VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITH THE                                                                                                             BFG        BOTTOM FINISH GRADE               EGL           ENERGY GRADE LINE           HG      HEADGATE                      PRK          PARKING STRIPE                    TL       TREE LINE
     BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH                                                                                                         BLUE       BLUE STAKED ELECTRIC              ELEV          ELEVATION                   HGL     HYDRAULIC GRADE LINE          POC          POINT OF CONNECTION               TMH      TELEPHONE MANHOLE
     THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS                                                                                                           BLUFO      BLUE STAKED FIBER OPTIC           EM            ELECTRIC METER              HP      HIGH POINT                    PT           POINT OF TANGENCY                 TOA      TOP OF ASPHALT
     REPORT.                                                                                                                                                                                 BLUG       BLUE STAKED NATURAL GAS           EMH           ELECTRIC MANHOLE            HW      HEADWALL or HIGH WATER        PWR          POWER                             TOC      TOP OF CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
  5. SITE CLEARING SHALL INCLUDE THE LOCATING AND REMOVAL OF ALL UNDERGROUND TANKS,                                                                                                          BLUIRR     BLUE STAKED IRRIGATION            EOA           EDGE OF ASPHALT             HWY     HIGHWAY                       PVC          POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE           TOF      TOP OF FOOTING
     PIPES, VALVES, ETC.                                                                                                                                                                     BLUSD      BLUE STAKED STORM DRAIN           EOC           EDGE OF CONCRETE            ICO     IRRIGATION CLEANOUT           R            RANGE                             TOG      TOP OF GRATE
  6. ALL EXISTING VALVES, MANHOLES, ETC. SHALL BE RAISED OR LOWERED TO GRADE AS                                                                                                              BLUSS      BLUE STAKED SANITARY SEWER        EOG           EDGE OF GRAVEL              ICV     IRRIGATION CONTROL VALVE      RCP          REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE          TOE      TOE OF SLOPE
     REQUIRED.                                                                                                                                                                               BLUT       BLUE STAKED TELEPHONE             EOL           EDGE OF LAWN                IE      INVERT ELEVATION              RD           ROOF DRAIN                        TOP      TOP OF SLOPE or TOP OF PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV
                                                                                                                                                                                             BLUW       BLUE STAKED WATER                 EX or EXIST   EXISTING                    IRR     IRRIGATION                    REV          REVISION                          TOW      TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                             BM         BENCHMARK                         F             FIRE                        LF      LINEAR FEET                   ROW          RIGHT-OF-WAY                      TR       TELEPHONE RISER
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOF        BOTTOM OF FOOTING                 FC            FOUNDATION CORNER           LIP     LIP OF GUTTER                 RR           RAILROAD                          TV       TELEVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOB        BOTTOM OF BOX                     FD            FOUND or FOUNDATION DRAIN   LP      LOW POINT or LIGHT POLE       S            SOUTH                             TW       FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL                                                PROJECT NO:                        24659
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOL        BOLLARD                           FDC           FIRE DEPT. CONNECTION       MAX     MAXIMUM                       SAD          SEE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS        TRANS    TRANSFORMER
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOT        BOTTOM                            FDMN          FOUND MONUMENT              MIN     MINIMUM                       SD           STORM DRAIN                       TSP      TRAFFIC SIGNAL POLE                                                        DRAWN BY:                               DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOV        BLOW-OFF VALVE                    FDSC          FOUND SECTION CORNER        MON     MONUMENT                      SDCB         STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN           TSB      TRAFFIC SIGNAL BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                             BOW        BACK OF WALK                      FFE           FINISHED FLOOR ELEVATION    MP      METAL PIPE                    SDCO         STORM DRAIN CLEOUNOUT BOX         UD       UNDERDRAIN                                                                 CHECKED BY:                             DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                             BW         FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL    FG            FINISHED GRADE              MW      MONITORING WELL               SDMH         STORM DRAIN MANHOLE               UGC      UNDERGROUND COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FH            FIRE HYDRANT                N       NORTH                         SEC          SECTION                           UGP      UNDERGROUND POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE:                         12-31-24
                                                                                                                                                                                             ℄          CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NG      NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                             CATV       CABLE TELEVISION                  FL            FLOW LINE                                                         SPECS        SPECIFICATIONS                    UGT      UNDERGROUND TELEPHONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNC           FENCE                       NGRET   NG AT RETAINING WALL          SLB&M        SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN         UGTV     UNDERGROUND TELEVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                             CBR        CONCRETE BARRIER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNCCL         CHAIN LINK FENCE            NR      NAIL & RIBBON                 SQ           SQUARE                            U.N.O.   UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE
                                                                                                                                                                                             CC         CURB CUT
                                                                                                                                                                                             COL
                                                                                                                                                                                             COMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COLUMN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNCIRN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNCVYL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRON FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VINYL FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NAIL & WASHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT TO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SQYD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SQUARE FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SQUARE YARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTILITY POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GENERAL NOTES,
                                                                                                                                                                                             CONC
                                                                                                                                                                                             CONST
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNCWD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FNCWR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WOOD FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WIRE FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ORIGINAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SSCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VERTICAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST or WATER                                                               LEGEND AND
                                                                                                                                                                                             CMP
                                                                                                                                                                                             CP
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTROL POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER OPTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FRONT OF WALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERHEAD COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERHEAD POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SSMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STEAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WATER METER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WATER MANHOLE                                                              ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FT            FEET                        OHT     OVERHEAD TELEPHONE            STA          STATION                           WS       WATER SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                             CTREE      CONIFEROUS TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G             NATURAL GAS                 OHTV    OVERHEAD TELEVISION           STD          STANDARD                          WTR      WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                             CUFT       CUBIC FOOT
                                                                                                                                                                                             CUYD
                                                                                                                                                                                             DEL
                                                                                                                                                                                             DIA or Ø
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CUBIC YARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                        DELINEATOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                        DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GARAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GROUND LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ⅊
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POWER BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            POINT OF CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SYL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SWL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STORM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOLID YELLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOLID WHITE LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WATER VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C0.01
                                                                                                                                        EWA
                                                                                                                                       M A IN
                                                                                                                                  EX SID
                                                                                                                                  TO RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COX, SEAN & ADRIENNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22-26-480-056




                                                                                         w
                                         s
SHADOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX HOUSE TO REMAIN
DIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1" = 10'




                                                                                         w
OK 93-3




                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX WOOD FENCE                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3                                                                                                                                     0        5'       10'                     20'             30'
                                                                                                                                        EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO REMAIN 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                        TO REMAIN 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                         w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.




                                         s




                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COORDINATE WITH GOVERNING AGENCY PRIOR TO DEMOLITION OF ANY PUBLIC UTILITY.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTILITY TYPE                       PROVIDER            .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2     EX CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WATER                              WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                               5   EX ICV                                   TO BE REMOVED                           SURVEYED PARCEL CONTAINS: TOP OF GRATE=5057.08' 7                                                                                                                                    EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                       STORM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STORM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMCAST




                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                      5056
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO REMAIN                                                                     COMMUNICATIONS                     CENTURY LINK




                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                5057
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21,027 SQUARE FEET OR            IE(S)=5055.63'

                                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMMUNICATIONS                     INTEGRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX 10 STALLS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SANITARY SEWER                     SANITARY SEWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.483 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATURAL GAS                        DOMINION ENERGY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO BE REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 POWER                              ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                           X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEMOLISH AND/OR REMOVE THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR REFERENCED AND THE




                                                                                         w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX GATE 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                                   1   EXISTING SITE FEATURES (FENCES, GATES, BOLLARDS, GRAVEL DRIVEWAYS, IRRIGATION GATES,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO BE REMOVED                                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                            CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE DITCHES, WHEEL STOPS, LANDSCAPING, GROUND LIGHTING, IRRIGATION, MOWSTRIPS,




                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ETC.) TO BE REMOVED/DEMOLISHED AND PROPERLY DISPOSED OF.




                                                                                                    505




                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BISHOP OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS



                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX CHAIN LINK FENCE 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2 EXISTING CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER AND/OR CURB WALL TO BE REMOVED/DEMOLISHED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                           X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERLY DISPOSED OF.
                                                                                         w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TRASH ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SION ENGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22-26-480-042  3 EXISTING ITEM TO REMAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO BE REMOVED
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NE
                                                                                                                                  EX CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRO
                                                                                                                              2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           01-09-25




                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4   EXISTING TREE(S) TO BE REMOVED AND PROPERLY DISPOSED OF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOP OF GRATE=5056.32'                                                                                                                                                EX CURB       2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No. 11088925-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                  TO BE REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5   EXISTING UTILITY TO REMOVED AND PROPERLY DISPOSED OF.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IE(S)=5054.20' 7                                                                                                                                                      TO REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DANIEL J.
SHADOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CANNING
                             OAKSHADOW CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE      TA
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF U
DIVISION
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX 2 STALLS
                                             (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)




                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                    EX GATE 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                       X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO BE REMOVED
OK 93-3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      sd
                                                                                                                                                                                    EX COLUMNS ALONGTO BE REMOVED5057




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5058




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2 EX CURB CUT
                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                    VINYL FENCE   1                                                                                                            TO BE REMOVED
AGE 29
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                             X




                                                                                                                                                                                    TO BE REMOVED
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX AC TO BE EX SIDEWALK TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX SIDEWALK TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX CURB 2                                                    REMOVED EM
                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO BE REMOVED                     LT VED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                            4                                                                                       A SP EMO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX BE R                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                            4
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO                                                              EX ELECTRICAL                                                                                                                                                  TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VAULT 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX OVERHANG
                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                     5057




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd


                                                                                                                 3                                                                                     1       EX BOLLARDS                                                                                           TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                 5056
                                                                                                      EX SIDEWALK TO REMAIN
                                                                                         w
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                    EX OVERHANG TO
                                                                                                                                                                    BE REMOVED                                                                                                                      EX CONCRETE                                                                                                                        2   EX CURB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1                                 ISLANDS TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6"
                                        s




                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                3                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX BOLLARDS 1                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                   EX CURB & GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO BE REMOVED                                                                 EX FFE=5058.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                   TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                          6"
KSHADOW
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5057




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOP OF GRATE=5057.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




BDIVISION
                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IE(S)=5055.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX STEP                      L T ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO BE REMOVED            PH MOV                                                                                                                                   IE(N)=5055.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                       505




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                                         w




OOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A    E
                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EX WATER SPICKET                   EX BE R
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                        5055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO
                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sd
 AGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX CURB 2                                                                   EX ICV TOP OF GRATE=5057.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX ICV                                                                      5 EX ICV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX ICV EX ICV               IE(W)=5053.60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX CHAIN LINK FENCE                   EX WATERWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6"                               IE(N)=5053.58'
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TO REMAIN
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                    EX COLUMNS ALONG 1                                                                     sd                        sd                       sd                       sd                                        sd                              sd                                                          TO REMAIN                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                    VINYL FENCE (TYP)                                                                          EX TOP OF GRATE=5054.95'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                                    TO BE REMOVED                                                                              IE(N)=5052.69' 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1   EX SIGN TO BE REMOVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 505
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IE(E)=5052.95'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "                                               IE(SW)=5052.70'        EX CURB 2
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO BE REMOVED          TO BE REMOVED                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX ICV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX SIDEWALK TO REMAIN                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sd
                                                                                         w




                 tv         tv                                                  tv            tv                                                tv                                          tv                                     tv                      tv                        tv                       tv                     tv                     tv                                                  tv                      tv                  tv                 tv                      tv             tv                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NO:                       24659
                   p          p                                                   p             p                                                 p                                           p                                      p                       p                         p                        p                      p                                                                        p                       p                   p                  p                       p              p
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB         TR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY:                              DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                      sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHECKED BY:                            DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE:                        12-31-24
                                                                                                     12"                                                                                                                                    24"                                                                                                                                                                                                             24"sd
            sd         sd                                                  sd            sd                                        sd                   SD                                             sd                                sd                           sd                   sd                       sd                                                                                                                                                                                TOP OF GRATE=5057.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sd                            sd                                               sd                 sd                                     SD
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX DRIVEWAY ACCESS                                                            EX DRIVEWAY ACCESS                                                                                                      IE(N)=5054.63' 3
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                RIM=5053.39'                                                                                                                                                                     1

                                                                                                                                                                        3       IE(E/W)=5049.69'                                                                                                TO BE REMOVED 1                                                               TO BE REMOVED                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEMOLITION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIM=5058.44'                                                                                                            PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION                          PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g




                                                                                                                                                                                IE(NE)=5049.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IE(W)=5054.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3                                                                                                    GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                  5053




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IE(N)=5054.84'                                                                                                          NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BENGAL BLVD (7800 SOUTH)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C0.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                505
                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NORTH
                     FOUND 2" DOME MONUMENT
                               WITH RING & LID                                                                                                                                                                                  COX, SEAN & ADRIENNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22-26-480-056




                                                      s
HADOW




                                                                                        S 0°04'17" W 25.03'
IVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: 1" = 10'



K 93-3




                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0         5'       10'                     20'             30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                                                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION             AREA               %
                                                                                                                      S 89°56'20" W 25.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 89°56'40" E 129.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HARDSCAPE                6,358 SQFT          30%




                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,729 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD                                                                                                                                                                                                           LANDSCAPE                                    27%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDINGS                8,940 SQFT           43%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL                    21,027 SQFT         100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 37.61'                             18.00'                      33.07'                           18.00'                   22.46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYED PARCEL CONTAINS:             7
                                                                                                                                                                                                             27.98' FOUNDATION WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,027 SQUARE FEET OR                                                                                                          27.98'
        FOUND PLUG ON                                 s                                                                                                                                                         TO PROPERTY LINE                5                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.483 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                     ALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO THE FACE OF CURB, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
    LOT LINE EXTENSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEE ARCHITECTURAL SITE PLAN FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                               SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR IRRIGATION AND PLANTING.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                      s




                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

                                                                                                                                                                                          3                                                                             6                                                                                                                                                          CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BISHOP OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KEYED NOTES:                                                                                                                                AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SION ENGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3                                                                                CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR                                                       ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:                                                            01-09-25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22-26-480-042




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  No. 11088925-2202
                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                    21.96'                                                              11.5'                    11.5'                                                                                              22.02'                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STANDARD DUTY ASPHALT PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE PER DETAIL 'D1', SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34.67'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C5.01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DANIEL J.
                                                                                                              25.00' FOUNDATION WALL                                                                                                                                                 26.00'                             34.67'                                                                                                                                              2    ASPHALT T-PATCH, PER APWA PLAN NO. 255.                                                                           CANNING
SHADOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                 TO PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TE      TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.00' FOUNDATION WALL                                            3                CONCRETE SIDEWALK, PER APWA PLAN NO. 231.                                                                 OF U
                                          OAKSHADOW CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO PROPERTY LINE                                               4   CONCRETE OPEN DRIVE APPROACH, PER APWA PLAN NO. 225.

DIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.0'
                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5   CONCRETE CURB WALL. SEE DETAIL 'C2', SHEET C5.01.
                                                          (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6   36" WIDE CONCRETE WATERWAY. SEE DETAIL 'D4', SHEET C5.01.

OK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7    4" WIDE SOLID YELLOW PARKING STALL STRIPE LINES.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30" CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER, PER APWA STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATION TO CLOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REMOVED DRIVEWAY APPROACH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'                                                                                                                                                                                          22.00'
                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9   SNOW STORAGE AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                          3                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                             N 0°03'40" W 163.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 0°03'40" E 163.00'
                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'                                                                                                                                                                                          22.00'
     FOUND PLUG ON
                                                      s




     LOT LINE EXTENSION
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6




                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.00'                                                                                                                                                                                          22.00'
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                          3


                                                                                                                                                                                          3



SHADOW
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    22.38'                                                                                                                                                                                          22.00'
DIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3




OK 93-3
                                                     s




AGE 29                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3            4.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1       4.00'                    3
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.62'                    25.00' FOUNDATION WALL                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.89'
                                                                                                                          NOT SET                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO PROPERTY LINE                                                         5                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOUND PLUG ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPERTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                   19.05'                             39.98'                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26.00'                                  44.29'                                                                 LINE EXTENSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT SET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NO:                         24659
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAWN BY:                                DJC
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHECKED BY:                              DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R10.50'                  R10.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:                         12-31-24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 89°56'40" W 129.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                    N 0°03'40" W 40.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°03'40" E 40.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                             8                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE                                      CIVIL
                                                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXCEPTING THEREFROM PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BENGAL BLVD (7800 SOUTH)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C1.01
                                                     s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORTH
OAKSHADOW
SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
 BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW SD CO BOX                                                                                    45 L.F. 12" PERFORATED
                                                                                                       NEW 12" AREA DRAIN                                                                  5                                                                                                                                                                 LID = 5056.50'                                                                                            HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                                                                                 SCALE: 1" = 10'

  PAGE 29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                       GRATE = 5055.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I.E. = 5051.25'
                                                                                                                                                                             60 L.F. 12" PERFORATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                       I.E. = 5051.25'                                                                                                                                                                               57.53                                                                                       57.70                                                                                                                58.01
                                                                                                                                                                                      HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                                 EXIST                                                                                       EXIST                                                                                                                EXIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6                                                                         0        5'        10'                     20'             30'
                                                                                  S 89°56'20" W 25.00'                                                                                                                                                                                57.25                                                                                                57.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBC                                                                                                  TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NEW 12" AREA DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                   SD                           SD                           SD                                             SD                            SD                   SD                                                  SD                        SD                                              SD                                                        GRATE = 5056.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I.E. = 5051.25'                                                     GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                         57.25                                                                        57.00                                                                                                57.00                                                                  57.50                                                                                                                    SITE GRADING SHALL BE PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TBC                                                                          TBC                                                                                                  TBC                                                                    TBC                                                                                                                      RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT (IF AVAILABLE). THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RESPONSIBLE FOR REMOVING AND REPLACING ALL SOFT, YIELDING OR UNSUITABLE MATERIALS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPLACING WITH SUITABLE MATERIALS AS SPECIFIED IN THE SOILS REPORT. ALL EXCAVATED OR FILLED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7%
                                                                                                                                5056




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AREAS SHALL BE COMPACTED TO 95% OF MODIFIED PROCTOR MAXIMUM DENSITY PER ASTM TEST D-1557




                                                                                                                                                                 5057
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXCEPT UNDER BUILDING FOUNDATION WHERE IT SHALL BE 98% MIN. OF MAXIMUM DENSITY. MOISTURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %                                                                                                                                                                             CONTENT AT TIME OF PLACEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED 2% ABOVE NOR 3% BELOW OPTIMUM. CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.19
                                                                                                                                                                                                         56.75                                                    44 L.F. 18" PERFORATED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHALL SUBMIT A COMPACTION REPORT PREPARED BY A QUALIFIED REGISTERED SOILS ENGINEER,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      57.00                                      56.90                                                                         VERIFYING THAT ALL FILLED AREAS AND SUBGRADE AREAS WITHIN THE BUILDING PAD AREA AND AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                                                                                                           TBC                                        TOC                                                                           TO BE PAVED, HAVE BEEN COMPACTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THESE PLANS & SPECS AND THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                         3.03%                                                                                                                                      55.55                             55.55                                                                                                                     0.76%                                                                                                      RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN THE SOILS REPORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                         56.25                                                                                                      TOC                               TOC                                  56.50                                   56.50                           56.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56.25                                                                                                                                                        TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOC                                                                          56.25                                                                                                                                        TOA                             TOC                                                                                                                     THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBC                                                                             56.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS SHOWN ON SHEET C2.10 SHALL BE USED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.02%                                                       TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                       55.19                                                                                             56.75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57.00
                                                                                                       EXIST                                                                                             TBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBC
                                                                                                                                          3.39%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      56.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA                                                          %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           56.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             57.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CORPORATIONEXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF THE         PRESIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNDERGROUND   UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE SHOWN IN THEIR APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.28                                                                                                                                                                                                                BASED UPON RECORD INFORMATION AVAILABLE AT THE TIME OF PREPARATION OF PLANS. LOCATIONS




                                                                                                505
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                57.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BISHOP OF THEMAY CHURCH          OF JESUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOT HAVE BEEN VERIFIED  IN THE FIELD AND NO GUARANTEE IS MADE AS TO ACCURACY OR




                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COMPLETENESS OF THE INFORMATION SHOWN. IT SHALL BE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                       55.11                                                  55.75
                                                                                                       EXIST                                                  TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHRIST OF LADDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DETERMINE THE DAY     SAINTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTENCE AND LOCATION OF THOSE UTILITIES SHOWN ON THESE PLANS OR INDICATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN THE FIELD BY LOCATING SERVICES. ANY ADDITIONAL COSTS INCURRED AS A RESULT OF CONTRACTOR'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FAILURE TO VERIFY LOCATIONS OF EXISTING UTILITIES PRIOR TO BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION IN THEIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2

   LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VICINITY SHALL BE BORNE BY THE CONTRACTOR AND ASSUMED INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEW SDCB                                                                                                                                                                                         ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN AT TOP AND BOTTOM OF WALL(S), IF ANY, ARE ELEVATIONS AT FINISH GRADE,                                         AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SION ENGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRATE = 5055.25'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ES
OAKSHADOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I.E. = 5051.25'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                01-09-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ER
                        OAKSHADOW CIR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No. 11088925-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      56.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                KEYED NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.40           TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DANIEL J.
SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC                               TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.75                                                                                                                                                                                  57.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CANNING
                                        (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1    GRADE SITE TO ELEVATIONS AND CONTOURS SHOWN ON PLAN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TE      TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.97%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF U
 BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5058
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2    STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN WITH HEAVY DUTY BICYCLE SAFE GRATE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5057




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3    STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
  PAGE 29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.68%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18" DIAMETER PERFORATED HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRENCHING DETAIL.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.36%                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12" DIAMETER PERFORATED HDPE STORM DRAIN LINE. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TRENCHING DETAIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                         54.76                                3.92%           55.50
                                                                                                                                                              TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                     56.00                                                                                                     57.00                                                                                                       6    12" HDPE INLINE DRAIN BASIN WITH HEAVY DUTY, PEDESTRIAN SAFE GRATE. SEE DETAIL 'A1', SHEET
                                                                                                         EXIST                                                                                   56.75                                                                                                              55.55                                             TOA                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C5.01.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.55                                                                                                                     TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                TOC                               TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.75                                                                                                                                                                                  57.00
                                                                                                                                              4.19%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC @ FRONT OF GARAGE = 5056.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC @ BACK OF GARAGE = 5056.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC @ FRONT OF GARAGE = 5055.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OVERFLOW PATH OF 100-YEAR STORM EVENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.11                                                4.20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                57.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOC @ BACK OF GARAGE = 5056.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                            %
                                                                                                         54.71                                                55.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                  TOC
                                                                                                         EXIST                                                TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW SDCB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40 L.F. 18" PERFORATED                                                                                      GRATE = 5055.25'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.68%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4     HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                     I.E. = 5051.25'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.78                                                         %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.88
                                                                                                                                                       5057




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FFE = 5057.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FFE = 5056.75'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55.40                             55.40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC                               TOC             56.00
                                                                                                                                       5056




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA                                                             TOA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.80                                             4.88%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.00%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.58%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  %                                           4.32%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.40

                                                                                                                                         4.76%            55.25
                                                                                                          54.40                                                                                                                                                                                        55.75                                                          56.00
                                                                                                                                                          TOC
                                                                                                          EXIST                                                                                  56.75                                                                                                 TOA 55.50                                      55.55           TOA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                         TOC                                                                                                                                                                57.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
   LOT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOC          57.00
                                                                                                                                       4.62%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.3                                                      %                                                                                                                      TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.75                                                                                                           2%                                           4   .00                                                                                                           57.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOC                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                              TOC
                                                                                                                                                        55.10

OAKSHADOW
                                                                                                          54.29
                                                                                                          EXIST                                         TOC                                                                                                                  40 L.F. 18" PERFORATED                                                                                      NEW SDCB
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5057                                                                        HDPE LAID FLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.80%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4                                                                                                       GRATE = 5055.25'                                                                                                                                  TOP OF GRATE=5057.87'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.E. = 5051.25'
SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IE(S)=5055.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.00%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1%                                                                                                                                                                      IE(N)=5055.37'
                                                                                                                                                         505




 BOOK 93-3
                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                              5055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.75                                                            56.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA           55.35                             55.35            TOA

  PAGE 29                                                                                                  53.98
                                                                                                                                                       3.70%                                                                      2.18%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOC                               TOC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20 L.F. 18" PERFORATED                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             57.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      58.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST

                                                                                                           EXIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HDPE LAID FLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                  54.90                                                                                                 55.65                                                                         6%                                                            2.42%                                                    57.00                                                                                         COMMON GRADING ABBREVIATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                                                   TOC                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOC                                                                                                        SEE SHEET C0.01 FOR ADDITIONAL ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           56.05                                                                                                                                                                                                            - BFE                BASEMENT FLOOR ELEVATION
                                                                                                           NEW 12" AREA DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC                               5                                                                                                                                                                              - BW                 FINISH GRADE AT BOTTOM OF WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                                                           GRATE = 5054.25'                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [56]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.38%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - EX or EXIST        EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                  1.95%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     60 L.F. 12" PERFORATED                                                                                                             47 L.F. 12" PERFORATED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.98%
                                                                                                           I.E. = 5051.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      505




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6                                                    - EOA                EDGE OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                                                     HDPE LAID FLAT                                                                                                                                                                             - EOC                EDGE OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                          SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5                                                                                                                                                                                     SD                                                               NEW 12" AREA DRAIN                                           - FFE                FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5055




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD                                                                                                                                             SD                                                                                                                                                                         - FG                 FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                                                  SD                                                                                                                                         GRATE = 5056.00'                                             - FL                 FLOW LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                      56.68                                                                                                                                          58.15    I.E. = 5051.25'                                              - GB                 GRADE BREAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.76                                                                                                  56.68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOA                                                              TOA                                                                                                                                            EXIST                                                                 - HP                 HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST                                                                                                  EXIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - LP                 LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - NG                 NATURAL GROUND
                                                                                                                                                                                               54.53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - SDCB               STORM DRAIN CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - SDCO               STORM DRAIN CLEANOUT BOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - SDDB               STORM DRAIN DRAIN BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - SDMH               STORM DRAIN MANHOLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV
                                                                                                                                                                                 54.29                                                               54.94                                                                                                                                           56.53                                                                                           58.00                                                                                  - TBC                TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST                                                               EXIST                                                                                                                                           EXIST                                                                                           EXIST                                                                                  - TOA                TOP OF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - TOC                TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - TOG                TOP OF GRATE                                                                 PROJECT NO:                        24659
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - TOW                TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NEW SD CO BOX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY:                               DJC
                                                                                                  12"                                                                                                   24"                                                                                                                                                                LID = 5056.15'                                                                                                      24"sd                                                                                        - TW                 FINISH GRADE AT TOP OF WALL
              sd   sd                                                 sd            sd                             sd             SD                                    sd                           sd                           sd                                             sd                            sd                                       sd                              sd                                   sd                                            sd                                                 SD             TOP OF GRATE=5057.68'                          - WW                 WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY:                             DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I.E. = 5051.25'
                                                                                                                                                     RIM=5053.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IE(N)=5054.63'                                                                                                                                   DATE:                         12-31-24

                                                                                                                                                     IE(E/W)=5049.69'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIM=5058.44'                                                                                                       NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                     IE(NE)=5049.94'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRADING AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IE(W)=5054.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,                       DRAINAGE
                                                                           5053




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IE(N)=5054.84'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BENGAL BLVD (7800 SOUTH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                 505




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                             COX, SEAN & ADRIENNE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE: 1" = 10'
                                                                                                                                  22-26-480-056




                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0         5'       10'                     20'             30'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE CONTRACTOR IS TO USE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PROVIDING EROSION CONTROL FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT. SPECIFIC DETAILS REFERRED TO ON THIS SHEET SHALL BE USED IN




                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COMBINATION WITH OTHER ACCEPTED LOCAL PRACTICES.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALL MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP SHALL CONFORM TO THE LOCAL AGENCY'S EROSION CONTROL




                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND ALL WORK SHALL BE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION BY THE AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HAVING JURISDICTION. ALSO INSPECTORS WILL HAVE THE RIGHT TO CHANGE THE FACILITIES AS NEEDED.

                                                                            SF                SF              SF                  SF                                        SF                      SF                 SF                    SF         SF                                       SF             SF                                             THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR FIELD VERIFYING THE LOCATIONS OF ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                 UTILITIES. IF CONFLICTS OCCUR, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ENGINEER PRIOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2




                      s
                                                                           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSTRUCTION TO DETERMINE IF ANY FIELD ADJUSTMENTS SHOULD BE MADE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                   SD              SD                  SD                                        SD                          SD        SD                    SD         SD                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ADEQUATE DUST CONTROL.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WHEN GRADING OPERATIONS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED AND THE DISTURBED GROUND SHALL BE LEFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "OPEN" FOR 30 DAYS OR MORE THE AREA SHALL BE FURROWED PARALLEL TO THE CONTOURS OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AREA.




                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MODIFY EROSION CONTROL MEASURES TO ACCOMMODATE PROJECT PLANNING.




                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAINTENANCE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE SHALL MAKE ROUTINE CHECKS ON ALL EROSION CONTROL MEASURES TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DETERMINE IF REPAIRS OR SEDIMENT REMOVAL IS NECESSARY. DUE TO CONDITIONS THAT MAY ARISE IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE FIELD, ADDITIONAL CONTROL MAY BE DETERMINED TO BE NECESSARY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SION ENGI




                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SILT FENCE BARRIERS SHALL BE INSPECTED IMMEDIATELY AFTER EACH RAINFALL AND AT THE LEAST                                  ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DAILY DURING PROLONGED RAINFALL.                                                                                          01-09-25
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CLOSE ATTENTION SHALL BE PAID TO THE REPAIR OF DAMAGED SILT FENCES, END RUNS, AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        No. 11088925-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CORPORATION    OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNDERCUTTING     PRESIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BENEATH SILT FENCING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DANIEL J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BISHOP OF THE  CHURCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NECESSARY REPAIRS TOOF    JESUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BARRIERS  OR REPLACEMENT OF SILT FENCING SHALL BE ACCOMPLISHED                                               CANNING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROMPTLY.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS                                                                                                                  TE      TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF U




                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEDIMENT DEPOSITS SHOULD BE REMOVED AFTER EACH RAINFALL. THEY MUST BE REMOVED WHEN THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEVEL OF DEPOSITION REACHES APPROXIMATELY ONE-HALF THE HEIGHT OF THE BARRIER.
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEYED NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
          OAKSHADOW CIR




                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1   SILT FENCE AS SHOWN ON PLAN. SEE DETAIL 'C3', SHEET C5.04.
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INLET PROTECTION AROUND EXISTING OR NEW STORM DRAIN CATCH BASINS OR CURB INLETS. SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                          (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETAIL 'A1', SHEET C5.04.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE. SEE DETAIL 'C1', SHEET C5.04. LOCATION SHOWN IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUGGESTIVE. CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE AS NEEDED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE WASHOUT AREA. CREATE A MIN. 10'X10' AREA WITH A 1' HIGH BERM. LINE AREA WITH
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4   PLASTIC. DISCARD WASTE IN DUMPSTER WHEN FULL AND LEGALLY DISPOSE OF. SEE DETAIL 'A3',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET C5.04. LOCATION SHOWN IS SUGGESTIVE. CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE AS NEEDED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER, CHECK LEVEL DAILY, LEGALLY DISPOSE OF WASTE AS NEEDED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOCATION SHOWN IS SUGGESTIVE. CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE AS NEEDED.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PORTABLE CONSTRUCTION TOILET. TOILET TO BE PROPERLY SECURED TO PREVENT TIPPING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6   BUILD 6" BERM AROUND TOILET TO CONTAIN ANY SPILLS OR LEAKAGE. CHECK LEVEL DAILY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEGALLY DISPOSE OF WASTE AS NEEDED. SEE DETAIL 'C5', SHEET C5.04. LOCATION SHOWN IS
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUGGESTIVE. CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE AS NEEDED.
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7   MATERIAL STORAGE AND STOCK PILE AREA. SEE DETAIL 'A5', SHEET C5.04. LOCATION SHOWN IS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC @ FRONT OF GARAGE = 5056.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUGGESTIVE. CONTRACTOR TO RELOCATE AS NEEDED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOC @ BACK OF GARAGE = 5056.50'
                                                                                                                                        TOC @ FRONT OF GARAGE = 5055.75'
                                                                                                                                        TOC @ BACK OF GARAGE = 5056.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FLOW PATH OF 100-YEAR STORM EVENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD
                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FFE = 5057.00'
                                                                                                                                        FFE = 5056.75'
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                           SF
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION
                                                                  1
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EX WATERWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                           SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO REMAIN
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                               SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF




                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                    SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT NO:                        24659




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                             SD
                                                                                                                                 SD                                                                                                                                                               SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                           SD                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY:                               DJC
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                               SD                                             SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHECKED BY:                             DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                               SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SF




                                                                                             SF              SF                  SF                                        SF                                                                           SF                                       SF             SF                                                                                                                                            DATE:                         12-31-24

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTICE!




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EROSION
                     s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
sd   sd                                                 sd   sd       sd                SD              sd              sd                  sd                                        sd                          sd


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C2.10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sd                 sd                sd                                    sd            sd            SD
                     s
PAGE 29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                        w
                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                  SD                            SD                               SD                           SD                           SD                 SD                       SD                                SD                         SD

                                                                                     NEW SSMH
                                                                                     RIM : MATCH EXISTING / 5054.80'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW SSMH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                         106 L.F. NEW 8" PVC SDR-35
                                                                                     IE : MATCH EXISTING / 5044.45'                                                                      SEWER MAIN @ 0.50%                                                                                                                                              RIM : 5055.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IE : 5044.98'                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE: 1" = 10'




                                                                                                        w
                                                                                      5                                                                                                          6




                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0         5'       10'                     20'             30'
                                              S                                                     s                          s                        s                       s                                 s                            s                            s                         s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                        8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GENERAL NOTES:




                                                                                                        w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE ALL SITE UTILITIES WITH PLUMBING DRAWINGS.




                                              s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                         GM GM GM GM GM                                                                                                                                                                                                        GM GM GM GM GM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALL NEW WATER CONSTRUCTION TO BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL GOVERNING MUNICIPALITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CORPORATION OF THESTANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRESIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             & SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BISHOP OF THE CHURCH      OFSANITARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JESUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3                                                                                                                                            ALL NEW          SEWER CONSTRUCTION TO BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL GOVERNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MUNICIPALITY STANDARDS & SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHRIST OF LADDER DAY SAINTS




                                                                                                        w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY LOCATIONS AND INVERT ELEVATIONS OF EXISTING MANHOLES AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22-26-480-042




                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OTHER UTILITIES BEFORE STAKING OR CONSTRUCTING ANY SEWER LINES.

  LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FOUR FEET OF COVER IS REQUIRED OVER ALL SEWER LINES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7                                                                                                                                                   MAINTAIN A MINIMUM OF 48 INCHES OF COVER ON ALL WATER LINES.

AKSHADOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                  OAKSHADOW CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE LOCATION AND DESIGN OF NEW COMMUNICATION / DATA FACILITIES TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING WITH UTILITY PROVIDER.




                                                                                                        w
UBDIVISION                                    s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR IS TO COORDINATE LOCATION AND DESIGN OF NEW NATURAL GAS FACILITIES TO BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                  (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITH DOMINION ENERGY AND MECHANICAL PLANS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOCATION OF ALL UNDERGROUND UTILITIES SHOWN ARE APPROXIMATE LOCATIONS. CONTRACTOR IS TO

BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                           w                                                                                                                                                                                        VERIFY CONNECTION POINTS WITH EXISTING UTILITIES. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAUSED TO EXISTING UTILITIES AND UTILITY STRUCTURE THAT ARE TO REMAIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SION ENGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UTILITY PROVIDERS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7
 PAGE 29                                                                                                w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     112 L.F. NEW 8" PVC SDR-35                                                                                                                                 WATER: WATER PROVIDER                                                                                                  ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F
                                              s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEWER: SEWER DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEWER MAIN @ 0.50%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 01-09-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATURAL GAS: DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. 11088925-2202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELECTRICAL POWER: POWER PROVIDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TELEPHONE: CENTURY LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DANIEL J.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KEYED NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TE      TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OF U
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REFERENCED AND THE DETAILS NOTED AND AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
                                              s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONNECT NEW 1-1/2" TYPE 'K' COPPER WATER SERVICE LINE TO EXISTING WATER MAIN, PER APWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLAN NO. 552.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1-1/2" WATER SERVICE METER SET, PER APWA PLANS NO. 522 & 505.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3   1-1/2" TYPE 'K' COPPER WATER SERVICE LINE, PER APWA PLAN NO. 541.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4    4' DIAMETER SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, PER APWA PLAN NO. 411.
                                              s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5    5' DIAMETER SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE, PER APWA PLAN NO. 411.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6   8" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER LINE, INCLUDING ALL FITTINGS. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR TRENCHING.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7   4" PVC SDR-35 SANITARY SEWER LATERAL, INCLUDING ALL FITTINGS. CLEANOUTS AT 50-FOOT
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAXIMUM SPACING. SEE APWA PLANS NO. 381 & 382 FOR TRENCHING. SEE APWA PLAN NO. 431 FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CLEANOUTS.
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8   APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF NEW NATURAL GAS FACILITIES. CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE SIZE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESIGN AND INSTALLATION BY DOMINION ENERGY WITH OTHER CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9   EXISTING WATER METER TO REMAIN AND BE USED FOR LANDSCAPING PURPOSES PER SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
  LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                        w




AKSHADOW
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
UBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8.00'          8.00'                                           NEW SSMH
                                                                                                        w




BOOK 93-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                               RIM : 5055.75'
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IE : 5045.54'

 PAGE 29                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                           w            WM
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                    w                       w                                 w                            w                            w


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                                                                                                    SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SD
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD                                                                                                                        SD                 9
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SD                                                         SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1" WHITE VERTICAL PVC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sd
                                                                                                        w




                   tv            tv                                                       tv                 tv                          tv                 tv                            tv                               tv                           tv                           tv                            tv                           tv                                tv                      tv                    tv                tv        tv       tv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                     p             p                                                        p                  p                           p                  p                             p                                p                            p                            p                             p                                                            p                       p                     p                 p         p        p
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EB       TR


             sd             sd                                                  sd                      sd                         sd          SD                      sd                            sd                               sd                           sd                           sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         w



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             sd                          sd                                sd                       sd                   sd            SD
                                                                                                        w
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         w
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NO:                        24659
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BENGAL BLVD (7800 SOUTH)
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY:                               DJC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PAVED PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHECKED BY:                             DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE:                         12-31-24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         w
                                                                                                        w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NOTICE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SITE
                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                      RIM=5052.23'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIM=5057.71'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLAN
                     IE(N)=5043.23'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IE(E/W)=5048.01'                                                                                                                                                        GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR
                  IE(E/W)=5042.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         w




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.
                                                                                                        w




              s              s               S                                                  s                  s                           s                   s                             s                                s                            s                            s                            s                           s                                 s                        s        S           s                 s         s        s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C4.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6"         1/2" RADIUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                 ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCRETE WATERWAY -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TRENCH WIDTH MIN.                                                                                                           JOINTS @ 10'-0" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIPE OD+16" MAX.                       NEW ASPHALT                                                                         WITH EXPANSION JOINT
                                                                    ASPHALT PAVEMENT,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AT 50'-0" O.C. - CAULK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PIPE OD+24"
                                                                    (SEE SPECIFICATIONS)




                                                                                                                                                                                    6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALL JOINTS WITH SEKAFLEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (4) #5 CONTINUOUS                                       GREY.
       *"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1/4" TYP.
                                                                                        ROAD BASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNTREATED




                                                                                                                                                                       1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2) #4 BARS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BASE COURSE    ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SLOPE (TYP.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48" MIN. COVER
       MIN.
        *"



                                                                                        SUBGRADE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BACKFILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'-0"                              1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7"
                                                                                                                                                                ROAD BASE                                                                                                                                            MIN.                               MIN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6" MIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PIPE ZONE MATERIAL:
                                                        (STANDARD DUTY)              (HEAVY DUTY)                                                                                                                       6"            1/2" RADIUS                                                                                                           WELL GRADED GRANULAR MATERIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                 ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                    COMPACTED TO 95% MODIFIED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXPANSION JOINT                                                                                                          PROCTOR DENSITY. MOISTURE                                                                                              ROAD BASE
                                                           PARKING                    ROADWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEDDING
                                                            AREAS                      AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +/- 2% OF OPTIMUM. NO ROCKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2) #4 BARS                                                                                                                                           LARGER THAN 2", NO CLODS OR




                                                                                                                                                                                    6"
         ASPHALT                                               3"                         4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FROZEN MATERIAL                     4" ROAD BASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCRETE
         BASE COURSE                                           8"                         8"                                                                                                                                                                SIDWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMPACTED




                                                                                                                                                                       1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUBGRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROAD BASE                                                                                                                                                                            3'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6" MIN.
        NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTE:
         REFER TO SOILS REPORT FOR PROJECT SECTION SOILS REPORT OVERIDES.                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE                                                                                                                                               ASPHALT TO BE 1/4" HIGHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8"               8"                                             THAN LIP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FOUNDATION:                                      MIN.             MIN.
                                                                                                                                                                ROAD BASE                                                                                                      UNDISTURBED MATERIAL OR SAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTE:                                             MATERIAL AS BEDDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONST. JOINTS @ 10'-0" O.C.
                   ASPHALTIC PAVEMENT SECTION                                                                                                                                                                                EXPANSION JOINTS @ 50'-0" O.C.
                                                                                                                   D1                                                                                                                                                                                          TYP. WATER & SEWER
                                                          SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                         CURB WALL DETAIL                                                                                                        TRENCH SECTION                                                                                 36" CONCRETE WATERWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D2                                                                                              SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D3                                                                                           D4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: N.T.S.                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE: N.T.S.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SION ENGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          01-09-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         No. 11088925-2202
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DANIEL J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE      TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                             NYLOPLAST 12" GRATES/COVERS
                                                             STANDARD GRATE MEETS H-20 LOAD RATING.
                                                             PEDESTRIAN GRATE MEETS H-10 LOAD RATING.
                                                             QUALITY: MATERIALS SHALL CONFORM TO ASTM A536 GRADE 70-50-05 & A48-CLASS 30B.
                                                             MATERIAL: DUCTILE IRON GRATE W/CAST IRON FRAME.
                                                             PAINT: CASTINGS ARE FURNISHED WITH A BLACK PAINT.
                                                             LOCKING DEVICE AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12" BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ADAPTER              MINIMUM ANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIZE             BETWEEN ADAPTERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                              4"-4"                         50°

                                                                                                                                                                                                              4"-6"                         55°

                                                                                                                                                                                                              4"-8"                         65°

                                         1299CGS                                                                                                 1299CGP                                                     4"-10"                         75°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             4"-12"                         85°

                                      HINGED GRATE COVER                                                                                      HINGED GRATE COVER                                              6"-6"                         65°
3.56




                                                                                                            3.56




                                      FOR EASY ACCESS                                                                                         FOR EASY ACCESS                                                 6"-8"                         75°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             6"-10"                         85°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             6"-12"                         95°
                                                                    1.81




                                                                                                                                                                          1.81




                                                                                                                                                                                                              8"-8"                         80°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             8"-10"                         88°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             8"-12"                         102°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             10"-10"                        90°
                   DO NOT POLLUTE DRAINS TO WATERWAYS                                                                      DO NOT POLLUTE DRAINS TO WATERWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                                                             10"-12"                        115°

                                                                                                                                                                                                             12"-12"                        150°
                     NYLOPLAST         DUCTILE IRON                                                                          NYLOPLAST         DUCTILE IRON




                                                                                                                                                     0.38
                                             1.12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6" COVER MIN. IN
                                                                                                                   PEDESTRIAN GRATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DESCRIPTION
            STANDARD GRATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE AREA                                              FINISH GRADE / ASPHALT
                                                                                                                   APPROX. DRAIN AREA = 50.60 SQ. IN.                                                                                                                                                 24" IN PAVED AREA                                           SEE PLANS
            APPROX. DRAIN AREA = 60.62 SQ. IN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS
            APPROX. WEIGHT WITH FRAME = 40.68 LBS.                                                                 APPROX. WEIGHT WITH FRAME = 35.04 LBS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GEOTEXTILE FILTER FABRIC
                                                                                                        INLINE DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1' MIN. OVERLAP)
                                                              DRAIN BASIN                                                                                                                10" INLINE DRAIN                        12" DRAIN BASIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12"
       ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REV
        VARIABLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18"                                                        18"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INLET ADAPTERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NO:                        24659
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAN BE PUT ON                           GEOTEXTILE FILTER FABRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANY ANGLE                               MIRIFI 140 N OR EQUIVALENT                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY:                               DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY:                             DJC
                                                                                                                                                                      10" INLINE DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18"
                                                                           WATERTIGHT ADAPTERS AVAILABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:                         12-31-24
                                                                           FOR ALL PLASTIC PIPING SYSTEMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12" OR 18" DIA. PERFORATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HDPE STORM DRAIN                                                                     2" WASHED GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CIVIL
                                                        SECTION VIEW                                                                                                                               PLAN VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DETAILS

                                                                                   DRAIN BASIN / INLINE DRAIN DETAIL
                                                                                                                   SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                           A1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RETENTION STORAGE PIPE DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLACE POSTS 6' ON CENTER                                                                               SECURE MESH TO POSTS WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2X4 WOOD POSTS OR STEEL                                                                                WIRE STAPLES 1" LONG OR TIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FENCE POSTS)                                                                                       WIRES OR HOG RINGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FLO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1.                                                  2.                                            3.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EA
                                                                          D                                                                                                                                                                                 SECURE FABRIC TO MESH
                                                                    R   OA                                                                                                                                                                                    WITH TWINE, STAPLES,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FABRIC
                                                                 ED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WIRE MESH
                                                              PAV                                                                                                                                                                                                      OR SIMILAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BACK FILL WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCKS OR DIRT




                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                                   OBJECTIVES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OBJECTIVES




                                                                                                                   'M
                                                                                                                       IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2'
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                   □       HOUSEKEEPING PRACTICES                                                                                                                                                                                               □    HOUSEKEEPING PRACTICES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'
                                                                                                                                                                   □       CONTAIN WASTE                                                                                                                                                                                                        □    CONTAIN WASTE
                                                                     8" MIN.                                                                                       □       MINIMIZE DISTURBED AREA                                                                                                                                                                    2'                        □    MINIMIZE DISTURBED AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                        MIN.                                       □       STABILIZE DISTURBED AREA                                      4.                                                  5.       FLO                                  6.                     TOE DETAIL                    □    STABILIZE DISTURBED AREA
                                                                                                                   1 5'                                            □       PROTECT SLOPES/CHANNELS                                                                                                                                                                                              □    PROTECT SLOPES/CHANNELS
                                                                         2" TO 4" SIZE
                                                                         COARSE AGGREGATE                                                                          □       CONTROL SITE PERIMETER                                                                                                                                                                                               □    CONTROL SITE PERIMETER
                                                                                                                                                                   □       CONTROL INTERNAL EROSION                                                                                                                                                                                             □    CONTROL INTERNAL EROSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A TEMPORARY SEDIMENT BARRIER CONSISTING OF ENTRENCHED FILTER FABRIC
                                                                                         SEDIMENT FABRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STRETCHED ACROSS AND SECURED TO SUPPORTING POSTS.
                                                                                         UNDER GRAVEL
                                                                                                                                                                   TARGETED POLLUTANTS                                                                                      APPLICATIONS:                                                                                                       TARGETED POLLUTANTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·  PERIMETER CONTROL: PLACE BARRIER AT DOWNGRADE LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE.
                                    DESCRIPTION:                                                                                                                   □       SEDIMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                             □    SEDIMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·  SEDIMENT BARRIER: PLACE BARRIER AT TOE OF SLOPE OR SOIL STOCKPILE.
                                    A STABILIZED PAD OF CRUSHED STONE LOCATED WHERE CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC ENTERS                                                    □       NUTRIENTS                                                                                        ·  PROTECTION OF EXISTING WATERWAYS: PLACE BARRIER AT TOP OF STREAM BANK                                            □    NUTRIENTS
                                    OR LEAVES THE SITE FROM OR TO PAVED SURFACE.                                                                                                                                                                                            ·  INLET PROTECTION: PLACE FENCE SURROUNDING CATCH BASINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AL
                                                                                                                                                                   □       TOXIC MATERIALS                                                                                                                                                                                                      □    TOXIC MATERIALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SION ENGI
                                    APPLICATIONS:                                                                                                                  □       OIL & GREASE                                                                                     INSTALLATION/APPLICATION CRITERIA:                                                                                  □    OIL & GREASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRO
                                    AT ANY POINT OF INGRESS OR EGRESS AT A CONSTRUCTION SITE WHERE ADJACENT                                                                                                                                                                 ·   PLACE POSTS 6 FEET APART ON CENTER ALONG CONTOUR (OR USE PRE-ASSEMBLED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     01-09-25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ER
                                    TRAVELED WAY IS PAVED. GENERALLY APPLIES TO SITES OVER 2 ACRES UNLESS SPECIAL                                                  □       FLOATABLE MATERIALS                                                                                                                                                                                                  □    FLOATABLE MATERIALS
                                    CONDITIONS EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNIT) AND DRIVE 2 FEET MINIMUM INTO GROUND. EXCAVATE AN ANCHOR TRENCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     No. 11088925-2202
                                                                                                                                                                   □       OTHER WASTE                                                                                          IMMEDIATELY UPGRADIENT OF POSTS                                                                                 □    OTHER WASTE
                                    INSTALLATION/APPLICATION CRITERIA:                                                                                             _______________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·   SECURE WIRE MESH (14 GAGE MIN. WITH 6 INCH OPENINGS) TO UPSLOPE SIDE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                _______________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DANIEL J.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                POSTS. ATTACH WITH HEAVY DUTY 1 INCH LONG WIRE STAPLES, TIE WIRES OR HOG
                                    ·   CLEAR GRUB AREA AND GRADE TO PROVIDE MAXIMUM SLOPE OF 2%.                                                                  □       HIGH IMPACT                                                                                          RINGS.                                                                                                          □    HIGH IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA
                                    ·   COMPACT SUB GRADE AND PLACE FILTER FABRIC IF DESIRED (RECOMMENDED FOR                                                                                                                                                               ·   CUT FABRIC TO REQUIRED WIDTH, UNROLL ALONG LENGTH OF BARRIER AND DRAPE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TE
                                        ENTRANCES TO REMAIN FOR MORE THAN 3 MONTHS.                                                                                □       MEDIUM IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVER BARRIER. SECURE FABRIC TO MESH WITH TWINE, STAPLES, OR SIMILAR, WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                □    MEDIUM IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF U
                                    ·   PLACE COARSE AGGREGATE, 1 TO 2-1/2 INCHES IN SIZE, TO A MINIMUM DEPTH OF 8                                                 □       LOW OR UNKNOWN IMPACT                                                                                TRAILING EDGE EXTENDING INTO ANCHOR TRENCH.                                                                     □    LOW OR UNKNOWN IMPACT
                                        INCHES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ·   BACKFILL OVER FILTER FABRIC TO ANCHOR.
                                                                                                                                                                   _______________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                              _______________________________________________
                                    LIMITATIONS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LIMITATIONS:
                                    ·   REQUIRES PERIODIC TOP DRESSING WITH ADDITIONAL STONES.                                                                                                                                                                              ·   RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM DRAINAGE AREA OF 0.5 ACRE PER 100 FEET OF FENCE.
                                    ·   SHOULD BE USED IN CONJUNCTION WITH STREET SWEEPING ON ADJACENT PUBLIC                                                                                                                                                               ·   RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM UPGRADIENT SLOPE LENGTH OF 150 FEET.
                                        RIGHT-OF-WAY.
                                                                                                                                                                   IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                              ·   RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM UPHILL GRADE OF 2:1 (50%).                                                                  IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·   RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM FLOW RATE OF 0.5 CFS.
                                    MAINTENANCE:                                                                                                                   □       CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                    ·   PONDING SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED BEHIND FENCE.                                                                     □    CAPITAL COSTS
                                    ·   INSPECT DAILY FOR LOSS OF GRAVEL OR SEDIMENT BUILDUP.
                                    ·   INSPECT ADJACENT ROADWAY FOR SEDIMENT DEPOSIT AND CLEAN BY SWEEPING OR                                                     □       O & M COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                          □    O & M COSTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAINTENANCE:
                                        SHOVELING.                                                                                                                 □       MAINTENANCE                                                                                      ·   INSPECT IMMEDIATELY AFTER ANY RAINFALL AND AT LEAST DAILY DURING                                                □    MAINTENANCE
                                    ·   REPAIR ENTRANCE AND REPLACE GRAVEL AS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN CONTROL IN                                                                                                                                                                   PROLONGED RAINFALL.
                                        GOOD WORKING CONDITION.                                                                                                    □       TRAINING                                                                                                                                                                                                             □    TRAINING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·   LOOK FOR RUNOFF BYPASSING ENDS OF BARRIERS OR UNDERCUTTING BARRIERS.
                                    ·   EXPAND STABILIZED AREA AS REQUIRED TO ACCOMMODATE TRAFFIC AND PREVENT                                                                                                                                                               ·   REPAIR OR REPLACE DAMAGED AREAS OF THE BARRIER AND REMOVE ACCUMULATED
                                        EROSION AT DRIVEWAYS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                   □ HIGH             □ MEDIUM       □ LOW                                                                      SEDIMENT.                                                                                                       □ HIGH          □ MEDIUM       □ LOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·   REANCHOR FENCE AS NECESSARY TO PREVENT SHORTCUTTING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ·   REMOVE ACCUMULATED SEDIMENT WHEN IT REACHES 1/2 THE HEIGHT OF THE FENCE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                             STABILIZED CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SILT FENCE
                                                                                            SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                               C1                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C3

FILTERSOCK SPECIFICATION:
FILTREXX FILTERSOCK INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE                                                                   FILTERSOCKS. SEE BELOW SCHEMATIC FOR FILTREXX FILTERSOCK INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                8. FOR AREAS WHERE FILTERSOCKS ARE TO BE LEFT AS A PERMANENT PART OF THE
1.0 DESCRIPTION:                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE, FILTERSOCKS MAY BE SEEDED DURING TIME OF MANUFACTURE TO CREATE A
    THIS WORK SHALL CONSIST OF FURNISHING, INSTALLING, MAINTAINING AND DISPERSING (IF                              LIVING SOCK. FOR SEEDING OPTIONS, THE ENGINEER MAY SIMPLY REPLACE ALL LANGUAGE
    NEEDED) A WATER PERMEABLE COMPOST FILTER SOCK (FILTREXX FILTERSOCK) TO CONTAIN SOIL                            ABOVE WITH "LIVING FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS"
    EROSION AND SEDIMENT BY REMOVING SOIL PARTICLES FROM WATER MOVING OFF SITE INTO
    ADJACENT WATERWAYS OR STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. FILTERSOCKS WILL BE USED AS                         4.0 MAINTENANCE:
    A FORM OF INLET PROTECTION FOR OPERATIONAL STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.                                          1. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS IN A FUNCTIONAL CONDITION AT
                                                                                                                   ALL TIMES AND IT SHALL BE ROUTINELY INSPECTED.
2.0 COMPOST PRODUCTS USED TO FILL FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS                                                          2. WHERE THE FILTERSOCK REQUIRES REPAIR, IT WILL BE ROUTINELY REPAIRED.
    1. COMPOST: COMPOST USED FOR FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS SHALL BE WEED FREE AND DERIVED                            3. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE SEDIMENTS COLLECTED AT THE BASE OF THE FILTERSOCK
       FROM A WELL-DECOMPOSED SOURCE OF ORGANIC MATTER. THE COMPOST SHALL BE                                       WHEN THEY REACH 1/3 OF THE EXPOSED HEIGHT OF THE FILTERSOCK, OR AS DIRECTED BY
       PRODUCED USING AN AEROBIC COMPOSTING PROCESS MEETING CFR 503 REGULATIONS,                                   THE ENGINEER.
       INCLUDING TIME AND TEMPERATURE DATA INDICATING EFFECTIVE WEED SEED, PATHOGEN                             4. THE FILTREXX FILTERSOCK WILL BE DISPERSED ON SITE WHEN NO LONGER REQUIRED, AS
                                                                                                                   DETERMINED BY THE ENGINEER. THE NETTING MATERIAL WILL BE DISPOSED OF IN NORMAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTAINMENT
       AND INSECT LARVAE KILL. THE COMPOST SHALL BE FREE OF ANY REFUSE, CONTAMINANTS OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EARCH BERM
       OTHER MATERIALS TOXIC TO PLANT GROWTH. NON-COMPOSTED PRODUCTS WILL NOT BE                                   TRASH CONTAINERS OR REMOVED BY THE CONTRACTOR.
                                                                                                                5. REGULAR MAINTENANCE INCLUDES LIFTING THE FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS AND CLEANING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALL AROUND
       ACCEPTED. TEST METHODS FOR THE ITEMS BELOW SHOULD FOLLOW USCC TMECC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOCATE 50' FROM NEAREST
       GUIDELINES FOR LABORATORY PROCEDURES:                                                                       UNDER THEM AS SEDIMENT COLLECTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAINAGE AREA
                                                                                                            5.0 METHOD OF MEASUREMENT:                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTAINMENT
       A. PH - 5.0-8.0 IN ACCORDANCE WITH TMECC 04.11-A, "ELECTROMETRIC PH DETERMINATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EARTH BERM
          FOR COMPOST"                                                                                          BID ITEMS SHALL SHOW MEASUREMENT AS `FILTREXX FILTERSOCK' PER LINEAR FOOT, INSTALLED
       B. PARTICLE SIZE - 99% PASSING A 1" SIEVE, 90% PASSING A 1/2" SIEVE AND A MINIMUM OF                     OR PER INLET, AS SPECIFIED BY THE ENGINEER.
          70% GREATER THAN THE 3/8" SIEVE. A TOTAL OF 98 % SHALL NOT EXCEED 3 INCHES IN
          LENGTH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH TMECC 02.02-B, "SAMPLE SIEVING FOR AGGREGATE SIZE                      6.0 PERFORMANCE:
          CLASSIFICATION"                                                                                       1. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING A WORKING EROSION CONTROL SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                              OBJECTIVES                                                                                                                                                                        OBJECTIVES
       C. MOISTURE CONTENT OF LESS THAN 60% IN ACCORDANCE WITH STANDARDIZED TEST                                   AND MAY, WITH APPROVAL OF THE ENGINEER, WORK OUTSIDE THE MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                   REQUIREMENTS AS NEEDED.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  □   HOUSEKEEPING PRACTICES                                                                                                                                                        □    HOUSEKEEPING PRACTICES
          METHODS FOR MOISTURE DETERMINATION.
       D. MATERIAL SHALL BE RELATIVELY FREE (<1% BY DRY WEIGHT) OF INERT OR FOREIGN MAN                         2. WHERE THE FILTERSOCK DETERIORATES OR FAILS, IT WILL BE REPAIRED OR REPLACED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                         □   CONTAIN WASTE                                                                                                                                                                 □    CONTAIN WASTE
          MADE MATERIALS.                                                                                          A MORE EFFECTIVE ALTERNATIVE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WASHDOWN AREA
                                                                                                                3. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO BE A CERTIFIED FILTREXX INSTALLER AS DETERMINED BY                                                                                                                                                                                             □   MINIMIZE DISTURBED AREA                                                                                                                                                       □    MINIMIZE DISTURBED AREA
       E. A SAMPLE SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE ENGINEER FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO BEING USED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PONDING STORAGE
          AND MUST COMPLY WITH ALL LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.                                           FILTREXX INTERNATIONAL, LLC (440-926-8041 OR VISIT WEBSITE AT FILTREXX.COM).                                                                                                                                                                                             □   STABILIZE DISTURBED AREA                                                                                                                                                      □    STABILIZE DISTURBED AREA
                                                                                                                   CERTIFICATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED CURRENT IF APPROPRIATE IDENTIFICATION IS SHOWN
                                                                                                                   DURING TIME OF BID OR AT TIME OF APPLICATION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            □   PROTECT SLOPES/CHANNELS                                                                                                                                                       □    PROTECT SLOPES/CHANNELS
3.0 CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS:
    1. FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS WILL BE USED AS A FORM OF INLET PROTECTION ON CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      □   CONTROL SITE PERIMETER                                                                                                                                                        □    CONTROL SITE PERIMETER
                                                                                                            7.0 APPLICATION GUIDELINES:                                                                                                                           1' x 1'                                                                                GRAVEL PAD                                                                                                             IMPERMEABLE LINER
       SITES WHICH REQUIRE PROTECTION AGAINST SEDIMENT LADEN WATER AFTER STORM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              □   CONTROL INTERNAL EROSION                                                                                                                                                      □    CONTROL INTERNAL EROSION
                                                                                                                1. FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS SHALL EITHER BE MADE ON SITE OR DELIVERED TO THE JOBSITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TO LINE THE PONDING
       DRAINS BECOME OPERATIONAL.
                                                                                                                   USING A 3 MIL TUBULAR HDPE KNITTED MESH NETTING MATERIAL, FILLED WITH COMPOST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STORAGE AREA (TO BE
    2. FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS WILL BE PLACED AT LOCATIONS INDICATED ON PLANS AS DIRECTED                                                                                                                                                                                                  MUST BE PLACED
                                                                                                                   PASSING THE ABOVE SPECIFICATIONS FOR COMPOST PRODUCTS AS OUTLINED IN 2.0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MINIMUM 10 MIL PLASTIC)
       BY THE ENGINEER. FILTERSOCKS SHOULD BE INSTALLED IN A PATTERN THAT ALLOWS                                                                                                                                                                                                     10 FEET BEHIND ANY
       COMPLETE PROTECTION OF THE INLET AREA                                                                    2. FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS NETTING MATERIALS ARE AVAILABLE ONLY FROM FILTREXX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IMPERMEABLE SURFACES
    3. INSTALLATION OF FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS WILL ENSURE A MINIMAL OVERLAP OF AT LEAST                              INTERNATIONAL, LLC AND ARE THE ONLY CERTIFIED MESH MATERIALS ACCEPTED IN CREATING                                                                                                                                                                                        TARGETED POLLUTANTS                                                                                                                                                               TARGETED POLLUTANTS
       ONE FOOT ON EITHER SIDE OF THE OPENING BEING PROTECTED. THE FILTERSOCKS WILL BE                             FILTREXX PRODUCTS ON SITE OR AS DELIVERED TO THE JOB SITE. STANDARD FILTREXX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                   COLOR CODING SYSTEMS INCLUDE YELLOW AND BLACK STRIPED MESH NETTING WITH 3/8"                                                                                                                                                                                             □   SEDIMENT                                                                                                                                                                      □    SEDIMENT
       ANCHORED TO THE SOIL BEHIND THE CURB USING STAPLES, STAKES OR OTHER DEVICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PREVENT OR REDUCE THE DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS TO STORM WATER FROM
                                                                                                                   MESH OPENINGS FOR INLET PROTECTION. OTHER COLORS ARE ONLY ACCEPTABLE AS                                                                                                                                                                                                  □   NUTRIENTS                                                            CONCRETE WASTE BY CONDUCTING WASHOUT OFF-SITE, PERFORMING ON-SITE WASHOUT                                □    NUTRIENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISIONS
       CAPABLE OF HOLDING THE FILTERSOCK IN PLACE.
    4. STANDARD SIZES OF FILTERSOCKS FOR INLET PROTECTION WILL BE 8" DIAMETER PRODUCTS.                            APPROVED BY BOTH THE ENGINEER AND FILTREXX INTERNATIONAL, LLC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN A DESIGNATED AREA, AND TRAINING EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
                                                                                                                3. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO BE A CERTIFIED FILTREXX INSTALLER AS DETERMINED BY                                                                                                                                                                                             □   TOXIC MATERIALS                                                                                                                                                               □    TOXIC MATERIALS
       IN SEVERE FLOW SITUATIONS, LARGER FILTERSOCKS MAY BE RECOMMENDED BY THE
       ENGINEER.                                                                                                   FILTREXX INTERNATIONAL, LLC (440-926-8041 OR VISIT WEBSITE AT FILTREXX.COM).                                                                                                                                                                                             □   OIL & GREASE                                                         APPLICATIONS:                                                                                            □    OIL & GREASE
    5. FILTERSOCKS SHALL BE CONSTRUCTED OF A WOVEN MATERIAL AND FILLED WITH A COMPOST                              CERTIFICATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED CURRENT IF APPROPRIATE IDENTIFICATION IS SHOWN                                                                   DESCRIPTION:                                                                                                                                                                                   ·  THIS TECHNIQUE IS APPLICABLE TO ALL TYPES OF SITES.
                                                                                                                   DURING TIME OF BID OR AT TIME OF APPLICATION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            □   FLOATABLE MATERIALS                                                                                                                                                           □    FLOATABLE MATERIALS
       PRODUCT THAT PASSES THE CRITERIA LISTED IN SECTION 2.                                                                                                                                                                                                          TEMPORARY ON-SITE SANITARY FACILITIES FOR CONSTRUCTION PERSONNEL.
    6. IF THE FILTERSOCKS BECOME CLOGGED WITH DEBRIS AND SEDIMENT, THEY SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            □   OTHER WASTE                                                          INSTALLATION/APPLICATION CRITERIA:                                                                       □    OTHER WASTE
       MAINTAINED SO AS TO ASSURE A PROPER DRAINAGE AND WATER FLOW INTO THE STORM                           8.0 AVAILABLE VENDORS FILTREXX FILTERSOCKS MAY BE PURCHASED FROM THE                                                                                      APPLICATIONS:                                                                                                                                                                                  ·   STORE DRY AND WET MATERIALS UNDER COVER, AWAY FROM DRAINAGE AREAS.
                                                                                                                FOLLOWING CERTIFIED FILTREXX INSTALLERS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _______________________________________________                                                                                                                                   _______________________________________________
       DRAIN. IN SEVERE STORM EVENTS, OVERFLOW OF THE FILTERSOCK MAY BE ACCEPTABLE IN                                                                                                                                                                                 ·  ALL SITES WITH NO PERMANENT SANITARY FACILITIES OR WHERE PERMANENT                                                                                                                          ·   AVOID MIXING EXCESS AMOUNTS OF FRESH CONCRETE OR CEMENT ON-SITE.
       ORDER TO KEEP THE AREA FROM FLOODING.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FACILITY IS TO FAR FROM ACTIVITIES.                                                                                □   HIGH IMPACT                                                          ·   PERFORM WASHOUT OF CONCRETE TRUCKS OFF-SITE OR IN DESIGNATED AREAS                                   □    HIGH IMPACT
                                                                                                                WINDSWEPT ORGANIX INC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ONLY.
    7. THE FILTERSOCKS SHALL BE POSITIONED SO AS TO PROVIDE COMPLETE PHYSICAL BARRIER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       □   MEDIUM IMPACT                                                                                                                                                                 □    MEDIUM IMPACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE
                                                                                                                WORK: 480-963-4638                                                                                                                                    INSTALLATION/APPLICATION CRITERIA:                                                                                                                                                             ·   DO NOT WASH OUT CONCRETE TRUCKS INTO STORM DRAINS, OPEN DITCHES,
       TO THE DRAIN ITSELF, ALLOWING SEDIMENT TO COLLECT ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE
                                                                                                                                                             WA




                                                                                                                FAX: 408-940-4261                                                                                                                                     ·   LOCATE PORTABLE TOILETS IN CONVENIENT LOCATIONS THROUGHOUT THE SITE.                                              □   LOW OR UNKNOWN IMPACT                                                    STREETS, OR STREAMS.                                                                                 □    LOW OR UNKNOWN IMPACT
                                                                                                                                                               TE




                                                                                                                850 SOUTH BOGLE AVE, SUITE 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·   DO NOT ALLOW EXCESS CONCRETE TO BE DUMPED ON-SITE, EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED
                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·   PREPARE LEVEL, GRAVEL SURFACE AND PROVIDE CLEAR ACCESS TO THE TOILETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _______________________________________________                                                                                                                                   _______________________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                   FL




                                                                                                                CHANDLER, AZ 85225                                                                                                                                        FOR SERVICING AND FOR ON-SITE PERSONNEL.                                                                                                                                                       AREAS.
                                                                                                                                                                      OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O   W
                                              CK                    CURB INLET                                                                                                                                                FL                                      ·   CONSTRUCT EARTH BERM PERIMETER (SEE EARTH BERM BARRIER INFORMATION                                                                                                                         ·   WHEN WASHING CONCRETE TO REMOVE FINE PARTICLES AND EXPOSE THE
                                            SO                                                                                                                                                                       T   ER                                               SHEET), CONTROL FOR SPILL/PROTECTION LEAK.                                                                                                                                                     AGGREGATE, AVOID CREATING RUNOFF BY DRAINING THE WATER WITHIN A BERMED
                                          ER                                                                                                                                                                      WA
                                     F ILT ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ·   MUST BE PLACED 10 FEET BEHIND ANY IMPERMEABLE SURFACES                                                                                                                                         OR LEVEL AREA (SEE EARTH BERM BARRIER INFORMATION SHEET.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NO:                         24659
                                   R      K                                                                                                    AREA INLET
                                 TE T A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS                                              ·   TRAIN EMPLOYEES AND SUBCONTRACTORS IN PROPER CONCRETE WASTE                                          IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
                              FIL TO S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MANAGEMENT.
                            Y
                         PT FF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LIMITATIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            □   CAPITAL COSTS                                                                                                                                                                 □    CAPITAL COSTS                                DRAWN BY:                                DJC
                      EM D O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ·   NO LIMITATIONS
                        TIE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 □   O & M COSTS                                                          LIMITATIONS:                                                                                             □    O & M COSTS                                  CHECKED BY:                              DJC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAINTENANCE:                                                                                                                                                                                   ·   OFF-SITE WASHOUT OF CONCRETE WASTES MAY NOT ALWAYS BE POSSIBLE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            □   MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                   □    MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ·   PORTABLE TOILETS SHOULD BE MAINTAINED IN GOOD WORKING ORDER BY LICENSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DATE:                         12-31-24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SERVICE WITH DAILY OBSERVATION FOR LEAK DETECTION.                                                                □   TRAINING                                                             MAINTENANCE:                                                                                             □    TRAINING
                                                                   8" FILTER                                                                                                                                                                                          ·   REGULAR WASTE COLLECTION SHOULD BE ARRANGED WITH LICENSED SERVICE.                                                                                                                         ·   INSPECT SUBCONTRACTORS T ENSURE THAT CONCRETE WASTES ARE BEING
                                                                   FILTER SOCK                                                                                                                                                                                        ·   ALL WASTE SHOULD BE DEPOSITED IN SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM FOR TREATMENT                                                                                                                           PROPERLY MANAGED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8" FILTER                                            WITH APPROPRIATE AGENCY APPROVAL.                                                                                 □ HIGH         □ MEDIUM        □ LOW                                     ·   IF USING A TEMPORARY PIT, DISPOSE HARDENED CONCRETE ON A REGULAR BASIS.                              □ HIGH          □ MEDIUM       □ LOW
                                                                                                                                                               W                                                     FILTER SOCK
                                                                                                                                                    ER
                                                                                                                                                         F   LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CIVIL
                                                       WA




                                                                                                                                                T
                                                                                                                                             WA
                                                        TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETAILS
                                                         RF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PORTABLE TOILETS                                                                                                                                                               CONCRETE WASTE MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                        WA
                                                             LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                         TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A3                                                                                                                                                                                          A5
                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: N.T.S.                                                                                                                                                                              SCALE: N.T.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                OW




                                                    SEDIMENT BARRIER / FILTER SOCK PROTECTION
                                                                                            SCALE: N.T.S.                      C REPLENISH
                                                                                                                                                                   A1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C5.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE
                                                                                                                 EX HOUSE TO REMAIN                                                                                                               SYMBOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DECIDUOUS TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QTY.       COMMON NAME                            BOTANICAL NAME                                 SIZE                                                         DETAIL




                                                                                                            EX WOOD FENCE




                                                                                           X
                             EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL                                                        TO REMAIN




                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9        MESA GLOW BIGTOOTH MAPLE               ACER GRANDIDENTATUM 'MESA GLOW'               2" CAL.                                                       D/L5.01
                             TO REMAIN




                                                                                           X
                                                                                           X
                                                                                           X
                                                                                                            SD                                                                                            L-5




                                                                                                                                                                                                         EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL
                   L-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L-1                                                              5        QUAKING ASPEN                          POPULUS TREMULOIDES                        8'-10' CLUMP                                                     D/L5.01
                   L-5                                                                                                  S



                                                   GM GMGM GM GM                                                                                                   GM GMGM GM GM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5        EXISTING DECIDUOUS TREE TO REMAIN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EVERGREEN TREES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3        WELLS RIVERSIDE SERBIAN SPRUCE         PICEA OMORIKA 'WELLS RIVERSIDE'               7' HT.                                                        E/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       01/09/2025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2        EMERALD ARROW BOSNIAN PINE             PINUS HELDREICHII (LEUCODERMIS)               5' HT.                                                        E/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ‘EMERALD ARROW’
OAKSHADOW CIRCLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4        EXISTING EVERGREEN TREE TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHRUBS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5        STANDING OVATION SERVICEBERRY          AMELANCHIER ALNIFOLIA 'OBELISK'               5 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH
                                                                   PROPOSED                                                                           PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43        PANCHITO MANZANITA                     ARCTOSTAPHYLOS X COLORADOENSIS                3 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01
                                                                    BUILDING                                                                           BUILDING                                                                                                                                                            'PANCHITO'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9        LITTLELEAF MOUNTAIN MAHOGANY           CERCOCARPUS INTRICATUS                        5 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13        REDTWIG DOGWOOD                        CORNUS SERICEA 'BAILEYI'                      5 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28        ALPINE CARPET JUNIPER                  JUNIPERUS COMMUNIS 'MONDAP'                   3 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L-2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30        CREEPING OREGON GRAPE                  MAHONIA REPENS                                3 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5        TIGER EYES SUMAC                       RHUS TYPHINA 'BAILTIGER'                      5 GAL.                                                        B/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PERENNIALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45        STEPPSUNS SUNSET GLOW PENSTEMON        PENSTEMON PINIFOLIUS 'P019S'                  5 GAL                                                         B/L5.01

                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX BLOCK RETAINING WALL          ORNAMENTAL GRASSES

                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO REMAIN                                                      40        BLONDE AMBITION BLUE GRAMA GRASS       BOUTELOUA GRACILIS 'BLONDE AMBITION'          1 GAL.                                                        A/L5.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33        FOERSTER'S FEATHER REED GRASS          CALAMAGROSTIS X ACUTIFLORA 'KARL              1 GAL.                                                        A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOERSTER'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          62        SAPPHIRE BLUE OAT GRASS                HELICTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS                   1 GAL.                                                        A/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           'SAPHIRSPRUDEL'
                   L-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SYMBOL               QTY.       DESCRIPTION                            INSTRUCTIONS                                   SIZE             SOURCE                                      DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LAWN
                                                                                                                        S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        439 S.F.    "IMPERIAL BLUE" LAWN SOD               INSTALL OVER MINIMUM 5" TOPSOIL LAYER.                          CHANSHARE FARMS (866) SOD-EASY              F/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OR APPROVED EQUAL
                   L-3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOULDERS
                                                                                                     TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BURY 1/3 THE DEPTH OF THE BOULDER INTO                          BOULDERS FROM BROWN'S CANYON
                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX CHAIN LINK FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FINISH GRADE. DO NOT USE BOULDERS                               QUARRY. CONTACT ONE SOURCE
                                                                                               L-5                                                                                                                                                                        44        "BROWNS CANYON" BOULDERS               THAT ARE LESS THAN 24" DIAMETER.         2'-4' DIAMETER IN      MATERIALS,                                  H/L5.01
                             WM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALL DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                          TO REMAIN                                                                                                        BOULDER SHALL BE WASHED AND FREE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DIRT AND OTHER FOREIGN DEBRIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ONESOURCEMATERIALS.COM, (385)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           447-9374.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MULCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INSTALLED A MINIMUM 3" DEEP. INSTALL
                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,744 S.F.   "SUPREME SHREDDED BARK"                OVER DEWITTS 4.1 WEED BARRIER FABRIC.                           MILLER COMPANIES (435) 245-3157             G/L5.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BARK MULCH SHALL BE FREE OF DIRT, ROCK                          OR APPROVED EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                     TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AND OTHER FOREIGN DEBRIS.
                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                               L-4
                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REV DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY DATA
                                                                                                                                                                                           X




                                                                                                                     EB
                                                                                                                                    TB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CH. 19 - ZONING


                                                                                                                  EB TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          L-1                           ZONED AS                                                       NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (NC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL ON-SITE AREA                                             21,027 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REQUIRED               PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NO: 24659
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL:                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY:                             TG
                                  SD                                                                                                                                                                                                         LANDSCAPE AREA                                                          15%         5,487 S.F. = 26%                                                                                                 CHECKED BY:                          SS
                         NORTH                                                                 BENGAL BLVD.                                                                                         SD                                       PLANT COVERAGE                                                          50%                68%                              AVOID CUTTING UNDERGROUND
                                              0         10            20           30 FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTILITIES. IT'S COSTLY.            NOTICE!                           DATE: NOVEMBER 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LAWN AREA                                                         20% MAX.           439 S.F. = 7.5%
                                                                                                                 REFERENCE NOTES                                                   GENERAL NOTE                                         YARDS:                                                                                                                                                         THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTY NO:
                                                                                                                 L-1.       1/4" x 6" METAL EDGING                                 1.   REFER TO COMMON EARTHWORK, TOPSOIL & GRADING,        FRONT YARD                                                         20' WIDE                YES                                                            RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LOCATION,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEFORE YOU
                                                                                                                            DETAIL I/L5.01                                              AND PLANTING NOTES ON SHEET L0.01                    SIDE YARD                                                          25' WIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROTECTION, AND RESTORATION                           LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF ALL BURIED OR ABOVE
                                                                                                                 L-2.       METAL FENCE WITH GATE, 4' HT.                          2.   ALL NEW LAWN SOD SHALL BE A TWCA CERTIFIED           REAR YARD                                                          25' WIDE                YES                                                            GROUND UTILITIES, SHOWN OR                             PLANTING
                                                                                                                 L-3.       WOOD PRIVACY FENCE TO MATCH SCREEN WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                        VARIETY - SEE LANDSCAPE SCHEDULE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARKING:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOT SHOWN ON THE PLANS.                                  PLAN
                                                                                                                            AGAINST BUILDING, 4' HT.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1-800-662-4111
                                                             ALWAYS PLANT ACCORDING TO                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPE ISLANDS - 1 PER 10 STALLS                                                        YES
                                                                                                                 L-4.       15' CLEAR VIEW SIGHT TRIANGLE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L2.01
                                                             CENTER POINT OF THE SYMBOL                                                                                                                                                      PLANT COVERAGE                                                          50%                51%
                                                                                                                 L-5.       LIGHT BOLLARD - SEE ELECTRICAL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TREE                                                             NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STAKES                                            ROOFING NAIL
                                                                                                                                      NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. REFER TO "PLANTING ON SLOPE" DETAIL IF
                                                                                                                                      1. REFER TO "PLANTING ON SLOPE" DETAIL IF NECESSARY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NECESSARY.

                                                                                                                                      2. AMENDED BACKFILL SHALL BE A BLENDED MIXTURE OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2. AMENDED BACKFILL SHALL BE A BLENDED
                                                                                                                                         THREE (3) PARTS EXCAVATED SOIL OR IMPORTED TOPSOIL                                                                                                                                                               TREE                                                       MIXTURE OF THREE (3) PARTS EXCAVATED
                                                                                                                                         AND ONE (1) PART WELL ROTTED COMPOSTED MANURE,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOIL OR IMPORTED TOPSOIL AND ONE (1)
      NOTE:                                                                                                                              APPROVED COMMERCIAL MIX, OR OTHER AMENDMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PART WELL ROTTED COMPOSTED MANURE,
                                                                                                                                         RECOMMENDED IN TOPSOIL TESTING REPORT.                                                                                                                                                          FLEXIBLE STRAP                                                              APPROVED COMMERCIAL MIX, OR OTHER
      1. REFER TO "PLANTING ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TREE TIE - 1 (ONE)                                                          AMENDMENT RECOMMENDED IN TOPSOIL
      SLOPE" DETAIL IF NECESSARY.                                                                                                     3. DO NOT PLANT IN HOLES THAT DO NOT DRAIN OR                                                                                                                                                      CONTINUOUS PIECE                                                            TESTING REPORT.
                                                                                                                                         PERCOLATE PROPERLY.                                                                                     EXISTING SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. DO NOT PLANT IN HOLES THAT DO NOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAIN OR PERCOLATE PROPERLY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MULCH HOLD BACK 3" FROM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BASE OF TRUNK                                                                                      4. AT BASE OF EACH TREE WITHIN LAWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AREAS, LEAVE 36 INCH DIAMETER CIRCLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FREE OF ANY GRASS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WATER RETENTION BERM      8' TREE STAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE
        MULCH. HOLD BACK                                                                                                               MULCH. HOLD BACK                                                                                                                                                                                  SET TOP OF ROOT BALL 2"                                                     STAKES AND TIES AT END OF ONE YEAR
        3" FROM BASE OF PLANT                                                                                                          3" FROM BASE OF TRUNK                                                                                                                                                                             ABOVE FINISH GRADE,                                                         WARRANTY PERIOD.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2:1 TRANSITION SLOPE                                                                    TRUNK FLARE MUST BE
                                                                                               SET TOP OF ROOT BALL 2"                                                                                                SET TOP OF ROOT BALL 2"                                                                                            VISIBLE ABOVE MULCH
        FINISH GRADE                                                                                                                   FINISH GRADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MULCH TAPER TO TRUNK
                                                                                               ABOVE FINISH GRADE                                                                                                     ABOVE FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FINISH GRADE                                                             AMENDED BACKFILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANT PIT WITH ANGLED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIDES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AMENDED BACKFILL
        AMENDED BACKFILL                                                                       PLANT PIT WITH ANGLED SIDES             AMENDED BACKFILL                                                               PLANT PIT WITH ANGLED                                                                                              REMOVE TOP 1/3 OF WIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SIDES. ROUGHEN SIDES AND   UNDISTURBED SOIL                                                                        BASKET AND BURLAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOTTOM OF EXCAVATION.                                                                    ROOT BALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLANT PIT WITH ANGLED SIDES AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SLOPED BOTTOM. ROUGHEN SIDES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2X ROOTBALL                                                                                                                              AND BOTTOM OF PIT.
        UNDISTURBED SOIL                                                                       ROOT BALL                               UNDISTURBED SOIL                                                                ROOT BALL PLACED ON                                                                                               FOR CLAY SOIL - AUGER HOLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNDISTURBED SOIL                                                                                                  4' DEPTH AND BACKFILL WITH                                               SET TREE STAKE 12" INTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4'-0"
                                                             2X ROOTBALL                                                                                                               2X ROOTBALL                                                                                                                                       AMENDED TOP SOIL (AT NO                                                  UNDISTURBED SOIL, MINIMUM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADDITIONAL COST TO OWNER).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2X ROOTBALL       UNDISTURBED SOIL

                 GRASSES AND PERENNIALS                                                                                                        SHRUB PLANTING                                                                                             PLANTING ON SLOPE                                                                                           DECIDUOUS TREE                                                                                                01/09/2025
      A           SCALE:
                   NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                      B        SCALE:
                                                                                                                                               NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C        SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D                     SCALE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NO SCALE



                                                                             NOTES:
                                          FLEXIBLE STRAP                                                                     NOTES:
                                          TREE TIE - 1 (ONE)                 1. REFER TO "PLANTING ON SLOPE" DETAIL IF                                                                                                                                                             NOTES:
                                          CONTINUOUS PIECE                      NECESSARY.                                   A. LAYING OF SOD:
                                                                                                                                    1. LAY SOD DURING GROWING SEASON AND WITHIN 48 HOURS OF BEING LIFTED.
        TREE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1. APPLY PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE TO SHRUB AND
                                                        ROOFING NAIL         2. AMENDED BACKFILL SHALL BE A BLENDED                 2. LAY SOD WHILE TOP 6 INCHES OF SOIL IS DAMP, BUT NOT MUDDY. SODDING DURING FREEZING TEMPERATURES OR OVER
        STAKES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GROUND COVER PLANTING AREAS AND GRASS-FREE
                                                                                MIXTURE OF THREE (3) PARTS EXCAVATED SOIL              FROZEN SOIL IS NOT ACCEPTABLE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AREAS AT TREES IN LAWN PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF
                                                                                OR IMPORTED TOPSOIL AND ONE (1) PART WELL           3. LAY SOD IN ROWS PERPENDICULAR TO SLOPE WITH JOINTS STAGGERED. BUTT SECTIONS CLOSELY WITHOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEED BARRIER FABRIC AND MULCH.
                                                                                ROTTED COMPOSTED MANURE, APPROVED                      OVERLAPPING OR LEAVING GAPS BETWEEN SECTIONS. CUT OUT IRREGULAR OR THIN SECTIONS WITH A SHARP KNIFE.
                                                                                COMMERCIAL MIX, OR OTHER AMENDMENT                  4. LAY SOD FLUSH WITH ADJOINING EXISTING SODDED SURFACES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. PRE-EMERGENT SHALL BE "SURFLAN AS" (LIQUID) BY
                                                                                RECOMMENDED IN TOPSOIL TESTING REPORT.              5. DO NOT SOD SLOPES STEEPER THAN 3:1. CONSULT WITH ARCHITECT FOR ALTERNATE TREATMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNITED PHOSPHORUS INC, TRENTON, NJ, OR
           TREE                                                                                                              B. AFTER LAYING OF SOD IS COMPLETE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APPROVED EQUAL.
                                                                             3. DO NOT PLANT IN HOLES THAT DO NOT DRAIN             1. ROLL HORIZONTAL SURFACE AREAS IN TWO DIRECTIONS PERPENDICULAR TO EACH OTHER.
                                                                                OR PERCOLATE PROPERLY.                              2. REPAIR AND RE-ROLL AREAS WITH DEPRESSIONS, LUMPS, OR OTHER IRREGULARITIES. HEAVY ROLLING TO CORRECT I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3. INSTALL MULCH TO UNIFORM DEPTH AND RAKE TO
                                                                                                                                       RREGULARITIES IN GRADE WILL NOT BE PERMITTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NEAT FINISHED APPEARANCE FREE OF HUMPS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3425 EAST BENGAL BLVD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2/3 TO 3/4 EXPOSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH
                                                                             4. AT BASE OF EACH TREE WITHIN LAWN AREAS,             3. WATER SODDED AREAS IMMEDIATELY AFTER LAYING SOD TO OBTAIN MOISTURE PENETRATION THROUGH SOD INTO TOP 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DEPRESSIONS.
                                                                                LEAVE 36 INCH DIAMETER CIRCLE FREE OF ANY              NCHES OF TOPSOIL.
                                    6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BRIGHTON LOFTS
                                                                                GRASS.
8' TREE STAKES
                                                                             5. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLE TO REMOVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MULCH
SET TOP OF ROOT BALL 2"                                                         STAKES AND TIES AT END OF ONE YEAR
ABOVE FINISH GRADE,                                                             WARRANTY PERIOD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FINISH GRADE
                                 5'-0"




TRUNK FLARE MUST BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONCRETE PAVING
VISIBLE ABOVE MULCH
                                                                             MULCH TAPER TO TRUNK                                                                                                                   CONCRETE PAVING
                                                                                                                                          SOD                                                                                                                                      BARK OR STONE MULCH (SEE




                                                                                                                                                                                       1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1/3 TO 1/4 BURIED
FINISH GRADE                                                                 AMENDED BACKFILL                                                                                                                                                                                      PLANT SCHEDULE FOR TYPE). HOLD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DOWN 1" FROM TOP OF WALLS,
REMOVE TOP 1/3 OF WIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WALKS, AND CONCRETE PADS
BASKET AND BURLAP                                                            PLANT PIT WITH ANGLED SIDES AND
                                                                             SLOPED BOTTOM. ROUGHEN SIDES                                 TIGHT BEVELED JOINTS
                                                                             AND BOTTOM OF PIT.                                                                                                                                                                                    WEED BARRIER FABRIC (REFER TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLANT SCHEDULE FOR TYPE)
                                                                             SET TREE STAKE 12" INTO                                      AMENDED TOPSOIL ,
FOR CLAY SOIL - AUGER HOLE                                                   UNDISTURBED SOIL, MINIMUM                                    5" MIN. LAYER
                                                                       12"
                                                4'-0"




4' DEPTH AND BACKFILL WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMPACTED OR
AMENDED TOP SOIL (AT NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UNDISTURBED SUB-GRADE
ADDITIONAL COST TO OWNER).

                                               2X ROOTBALL
                                                                             UNDISTURBED SOIL

                 EVERGREEN TREE                                                                                                                SOD INSTALLATION                                                                                           MULCH                                                                                                       BOULDER
      E           SCALE:
                  NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                      F        SCALE:
                                                                                                                                               NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G        NO SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H                     NO SCALE




                                                                             NOTE:

                                                                             EDGING SHALL BE COL-MET
                                                                             COMMERCIAL EDGING WITH BLACK
                                                                             POWDER COATING FINISH. MINIMUM
                                                                             16" LONG STAKES - 4 STAKES PER
                                                                             10'-0" SECTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS
                                                                             1/4" x 6" METAL EDGING.
           MULCH HELD DOWN 1/2" FROM
                                                                             STAKE AT BOTH ENDS
                 TOP OF STEEL EDGING



                                 MULCH
                   (SEE PLAN FOR DEPTH)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REV DATE
                                                                             UNDISTURBED OR
                                                                             COMPACTED SUB-GRADE
                   WEED BARRIER FABRIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO: 24659
                                                                             REMOVE SOIL AS NEEDED TO
                                                                             INSTALL METAL EDGING - USE HAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWN BY:                             TG
                                                                             COMPACTOR TO COMPACT SOIL
                                                                             AROUND BASE OF EDGING TO 90%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY:                          SS
                                                                             COMPACTION ON EACH SIDE OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DATE: NOVEMBER 2024
                                                                             EDGING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPERTY NO:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DETAILS

               METAL EDGING
       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L5.01
                  SCALE:
                  NO SCALE
                                                                                                    EDG
                                                                                                    ENGINEERING

                                              N 90° 00' 00" E
                                                 129.00'




                 GM GM GM GM GM                                 GM GM GM GM GM




                                                                                                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
                                                                                                    2888 E 3300 S
N 0° 00' 00" E




                                                                                 S 0° 00' 00" W
   163.00'




                                                                                    163.00'
                                                                                                  PERMIT SET

                                                                                                  DATE: 01/06/25

                                                                                                  REVISIONS:
                                                                                                  NO. DATE          REVISIONS




                                                                                                    SHEET TITLE




                                              N 90° 00' 00" W
                                                 129.00'

                                                                                                   SHEET NUMBER




                                  LEVEL 1 ELECTRICAL PLAN                                                      E101
                                        SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                 Wednesday, January 8, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Work Room

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Mike
                      Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson (via
                      Zoom)

Staff Present:        Deputy City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Associate Planner/Sustainability
                      Analyst, Ian Harris; Community and Economic Development Director,
                      Michael Johnson; System Administrator, Alex Earl; Senior City Planner,
                      Samantha DeSeelhorst (via Zoom)

WORK SESSION

Vice-Chair Sein Steinman called the Work Meeting to order at 5:04 PM.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson, reviewed Agenda Item 3.1.
Project ZTA-24-005 is a Zoning Text Amendment to amend the PDD-2 Wasatch Rock
Redevelopment Zone Ordinance. The PDD-2 Zone is site-specific for the Rockworth Companies
development located at 6695 South Wasatch Boulevard. The subject property is a 21.5-acre parcel
in the northern Gravel Pit. The remainder of the Gravel Pit is under different ownership and no
applications have been received regarding that parcel.

The Zoning Map was reviewed. Mr. Johnson reported that the northern property boundary is also
the boundary between Cottonwood Heights and the City of Holladay. He believed most public
input at the Business Meeting would be from residents of the neighboring subdivision in the City
of Holladay. There is a drastic grade change between the site and the closest subdivision in
Cottonwood Heights, which is west of Wasatch Boulevard.

The purpose of the public hearing will be to provide context for the current site entitlement, as
well as an overview of the scope of the application and its approval process. The public comment
process and Commission discussion would also be initiated, but no recommendation or final
decision would be made at the Business Meeting.

Mr. Johnson provided background on the project. The entitlement process began in 2019. City
Code §19.51 governs where a Planned Development District (“PDD”) can be created, and the
PDD-2 Zone was approved in 2021 using the process outlined in that Ordinance including



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                      1
Planning Commission recommendation, Architectural Review Commission review, and final
approval by the City Council. The PDD-2 Ordinance established development parameters and a
master site plan for the subject property and included a full site review, impact analysis, and
establishment of approved uses, densities, massing, site circulation, landscaping, affordable
housing requirements, etc.

The existing PDD-2 Ordinance and Development Plan were reviewed. It will be a seven-phase
project including:

   •   One seven-story apartment building with up to 300 units.
   •   Four one-story retail/commercial pad sites.
   •   Two three-story mixed-use commercial pad sites.
   •   One five-story hotel with up to 140 rooms.
   •   One condominium building use and location was approved with massing, height, and unit
       count subject to future approval.
   •   One central roadway through the property with access to parking areas for each phase.

Mr. Johnson presented the Site Plan identifying fault line locations and setbacks on the subject
property and reported that the property underwent extensive geologic hazard review due to the
number of potential hazards on the site. Additional geological engineering will also be required
as each phase comes online, as reflected in the PDD-2 Ordinance. In response to a question,
Mr. Johnson reported that the blue line shown on the map is an aqueduct line owned by the
Metropolitan Water District. The developer has collaborated with the Water District to ensure that
any improvements built over the water line are properly designed and engineered and has proposed
a large courtyard or plaza in the easement area. The roadway will also cross over the water line,
which requires additional engineering.

The Phasing Plan was reviewed, and Mr. Johnson reported that Phase 1 of the project is underway.
Most of the demolition work on the site has been completed, and work is in progress to finalize
hillside reclamation plans and engineering to regrade, revegetate, and stabilize the graded hillside.
The City receives regular observation reports from third-party professionals, and the property is
routinely inspected by the geologic hazard consultant. No Building Permit applications have been
received. The Phasing Plan indicates that the condominium building will be the seventh and final
phase of the project.

Mr. Johnson reported that the original site visual renderings indicated that the condominium
building would be 13 stories and have 99 units. The initial traffic impact studies, Staff analysis,
and review were completed using those figures. However, due to concerns raised by the City
Council regarding building height, only the use and location were entitled in 2021. The final unit
count, massing, and height were not approved at that time. In response to a question, Mr. Johnson
stated that the apartment unit count has decreased by 25 units since the original approval. The
applicant proposed a spectrum of unit counts for the condominiums, but the total number of units
on the site would not be dissimilar to those considered in the original analysis. He noted that it
would be appropriate for the Planning Commission to request updated renderings from the
applicant.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                          2
A conceptual view from the intersection of Wasatch Boulevard and 6200 South was reviewed.
The Planned Development District Ordinance specifies that heights will be based on elevation
above Wasatch Boulevard. It was noted that there was a lengthy discussion regarding elevation
when the PDD was originally approved. Renderings from other angles were then reviewed and
discussed.

Mr. Johnson next reviewed the Zoning Text Amendment and indicated that the amendment would
be to Section 3: Approval of Development Plan; Phasing, and would approve a condominium
building with a height of nine to ten unit floors above three to four parking levels, which would
result in a 12- to 14-story building. Parking would be a minimum of one and one-quarter and a
maximum of two parking stalls per unit. The total unit count would be between 75 and 110 units.

In response to a question, Mr. Johnson stated that they could consider specifying a maximum
building height. The technical review had not yet been completed, so he was unable to recommend
a specific height at that time. The developer has estimated approximately 10 feet per story. An
updated rendering of the condominium building was reviewed, as well as the table included in the
current PDD-2 Ordinance that specifies the allowed building heights based on distance from
Wasatch Boulevard. The location of the condominium would allow for a height of 150 to 300 feet,
and the proposed building would be approximately 140 feet.

Commissioner Mills stated that although Hughes Canyon is located in Holladay, its proximity to
the development warrants being more granular than if it was located further from a residential
neighborhood. Mr. Johnson stated that there will be a visual impact in that area, but it will be
limited by the topography. Staff and the Planning Commission previously recommended approval.
The Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan and other policy documents recommend high density in the
Gravel Pit area. There are not currently many condominiums in the City, so it will also provide
residents with access to that housing type.

Next steps include:

   •   Commission discussion and requests for any additional information;
   •   Full technical analysis of the proposed condominium details:
           o Traffic Impact Study review
           o Utility availability
           o Geotechnical/geologic hazard mitigation requirements
           o PDD-2 amended Ordinance review
           o City Master Plan compatibility
   •   Continued discussion at subsequent Commission Meetings;
   •   Architectural Review Commission consideration; and
   •   City Council consideration.

In response to a concern raised by Commissioner Sheldon, Mr. Johnson stated that the proposed
parking structure will be within the fault setback, but the units will not be in that area. An
expansion joint will be used to separate the structures. The City’s geohazard consultant is currently
reviewing the plan to determine if that will be acceptable. Staff has not provided any waivers from
the Sensitive Lands procedures related to fault mitigation on the project, and other large-scale


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                          3
developments have been allowed on fault lines in the City. Mr. Johnson stated that the project
website includes engineering documents that are available to the public. The Ordinance also
requires site-specific trenching and hazard mitigation reports for each phase of the project. It was
noted that the project was approved prior to adoption of the Sensitive Lands Ordinance.
Mr. Johnson believed the PDD would have been approved even if the ordinance had been adopted
at the time because commercial projects have a higher threshold of review. The same slope
stability and fault hazard standards apply, and there are no riparian hazards on the site.

Commissioner Mills stated that the developer is being required to stabilize the slope behind the
property, which is an expensive project to remediate an issue that they did not cause. The hillside
will be revegetated and include a public trail system that will connect with the future Bonneville
Shoreline Trail.

In response to a question, Mr. Johnson stated that the traffic impact would be comparable to that
outlined in the original traffic study. That study assumed 424 total units, and the actual number of
residential units will be slightly lower. The developer will not be able to submit a Building Permit
request for the condominium building until the Zoning Text Amendment is approved.

Mr. Johnson recommended that after discussion at the Business Meeting, the Planning
Commission move to continue the public hearing to a February meeting so it will not require a
separate notice. Full Staff review should be available by February. The applicant hopes to begin
construction of the apartments in 2025.

In response to a question from Vice-Chair Steinman, Mr. Johnson stated that the variance request
for the Old Mill site was denied. The applicant will be required to follow the codified process,
and a 12-month public input period will be required before a permit can be granted to modify the
structure. The 12-month period will begin when the application is submitted and payment is made.
Regarding demolition, the applicant clarified at the hearing that they were not requesting a waiver
from the permit requirement. If they demolish the structure, they will apply for a Demolition
Permit, which requires both the Planning Commission and City Council processes.

With regard to the Canyon Cove Center, the City Council approved the Conditional Use
Amendment to the Development Agreement to modify the office building to a residential
condominium building at its December meeting. The Project Area Plan must now be amended by
the City and contributing tax entities. Staff anticipates full approval by March and the permit
process to begin shortly thereafter.

They are in the process of selecting a development partner for the Town Center. The Request for
Proposals process will close in February, and they will then review the submissions and
recommend a contract to the City Council. The City is allowed to issue the bond in full or in
phases, and no decision has been made as to which option the Council will choose.

In response to a question regarding the City of Holladay’s Housing Project on Big Cottonwood
Canyon Road, Mr. Johnson stated that he is not familiar with the project and the City of Holladay
has not reached out to him to discuss it. Commissioner Mills stated that Cottonwood Heights
residents have tried to engage with Holladay regarding concerns over the massing. Mr. Johnson



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                         4
stated that, although communication is always appreciated, it is ultimately Holladay’s project and
their decision.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Shelton moved to ADJOURN. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Meeting adjourned at 5:50 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                       5
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                  Wednesday, January 8, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Mike
                       Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson (via
                       Zoom)

Staff Present:         Deputy City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Associate Planner/Sustainability
                       Analyst, Ian Harris; Community and Economic Development Director,
                       Michael Johnson; System Administrator, Alex Earl; Senior City Planner,
                       Samantha DeSeelhorst (via Zoom)

BUSINESS SESSION

Vice-Chair Sean Steinman called the Business Meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project ZTA-24-005 – Introduction and Public Hearing for a Request by
                 Rockworth Companies to Modify Portions of the Adopted Planned
                 Development District (“PDD”) Ordinance which Governs the Rockworth
                 Gravel Pit at 6995 South Wasatch Boulevard. The proposed modifications
                 relate to further defining the massing and density of the future mixed-use
                 project at this site.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson, reported that no final action
was scheduled for the item. The purpose of the public hearing was to provide context and
background to the Commission and the public on the nature of the request, compare what is already
approved for the site with what is currently up for consideration, and review next steps.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                      6
Project ZTA-24-005 is a Text Amendment Proposal for the PDD-2 Wasatch Rock Redevelopment
Zone granted by the City in 2021 to the parcel located at 6695 South Wasatch Boulevard, which
is a 21.5-acre parcel at the north end of the Gravel Pit property. The PDD-2 Zone is site-specific
and includes a written Ordinance establishing allowed uses, approval processes, lighting and
landscaping standards, etc. It also established an overall Master Plan for the property.

Mr. Johnson reviewed zoning and Site Plan maps and noted that the City boundary is adjacent to
the subject property on its northern boundary, and the neighborhood to the north of the parcel is in
Holladay City.

The PDD-2 Zone is a Planned Development District that was created with the Planned
Development District Ordinance outlined in Cottonwood Heights City Code § 19.51. Applicants
and property owners use that Ordinance to guide redevelopment of their properties throughout the
City. Rockwood Companies applied to create the PDD-2 Zone in 2019, and it was approved and
entitled in 2021 after two years of public input and consideration by the Planning Commission,
Architectural Review Commission, and City Council. The Zoning Text Amendment in question
would be an amendment to that site-specific zone.

The approved PDD-2 Ordinance included a Development Plan which laid out the following:

   •   One seven-story apartment building was originally approved for 325 units but subsequently
       reduced to 300 units.
   •   Four one-story retail/commercial pad sites.
   •   Two three-story mixed-use commercial pad sites.
   •   One five-story hotel with up to 140 rooms.
   •   One condominium building for which the use and location were approved with massing,
       height, and unit count subject to future approval.

Mr. Johnson stated that the original review approval process included the assumption of a 12- or
13-story, 99-unit condominium building. Due to questions raised at the end of the process, the
applicant chose to request entitlement of the height and unit count at a later date.

The site is constrained by numerous geologic and geotechnical hazards, as well as public utility
lines. Mr. Johnson reviewed the fault lines and fault line setbacks indicated on the Site Plan and
reported that habitable buildings are not allowed to be constructed in those areas. An aqueduct
easement owned by the Metropolitan Water District also runs through the property and limits the
development of both habitable buildings and the roadway. Those hazard areas will contain
common plaza space for the development. East of the future apartment building is a steep hillside
that is currently graded from years of industrial mining and is required to be reclaimed, regraded,
and revegetated stably. That phase of the project was approved and is currently underway. A
public trail system will also be developed on the hillside. The approved phasing plan was also
reviewed, which indicates seven phases and the construction of the condominium building as the
final phase. No estimated timeline for full buildout was available, but the developer hoped to
begin construction on the apartments in 2025.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                         7
Concept renderings were reviewed. It was noted that the renderings were included with the
original application and had not been updated to reflect changes outlined in the Zoning Text
Amendment. However, the condominium building in those renderings was comparable in size to
the one being proposed. Mr. Johnson clarified that the amendment only applied to the massing
and total number of units for the condominium building. No other element of the existing PDD-2
Ordinance would be modified in any way. The standards for providing affordable housing, trails,
landscaping, etc. would remain in place and move forward as approved.

The Zoning Text Amendment would apply to Section 3, Approval of Development Plan; Phasing
of the current PDD-2 Ordinance, and specify ranges for the total number of floors and units.

The proposed massing would be:

   o Nine to 10 unit floors
   o Three to four parking levels
   o A total of 75 to 110 units

The City’s PDD Ordinance codifies a method for establishing height limits in PDD areas.
Maximum heights for the Gravel Pit are determined based on elevation above Wasatch Boulevard,
and the maximum allowed height increases as the eastern portion of the property will
accommodate a larger building without substantial negative impact. The Gravel Pit site is
envisioned in the Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan as a site that can accommodate higher density
and building heights than typically seen elsewhere in the City. The condominium will have a
maximum height limit of 300 feet but the developer has proposed a height of approximately 140
feet.

Next steps in the process will include:

   •   Commission discussion and requests for any additional information;
   •   Full technical analysis of the proposed condominium details:
           o Traffic Impact Study review
           o Utility availability
           o Geotechnical/geologic hazard mitigation requirements
           o PDD-2 amended Ordinance review
           o City Master Plan compatibility
   •   Continued discussion at subsequent Commission Meetings;
   •   Architectural Review Commission consideration; and
   •   City Council consideration.

In response to a question from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Johnson stated that the applicant has
proposed a building height of approximately 140 feet, which is similar to the original proposal.
Most buildings in the development will be substantially lower than allowed. The PDD Ordinance
includes generous maximum heights to allow flexibility for developers.

In response to a question from Vice-Chair Steinman, Mr. Johnson reported that as part of its review
process, Staff will review the comprehensive traffic study conducted previously. If any of the


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                        8
information is deficient or outdated, they will request that the applicant update it. A summary of
the traffic impacts of the unit change was submitted with the Zoning Text Amendment application.

Commissioner Shelton asked if the condominium building could be constructed out of phase.
Mr. Johnson stated that the Phasing Plan is codified in the PDD-2 Ordinance, so the applicant
would need to request an amendment to that plan to do so.

The applicant, Sara Namelko of Rockworth Companies, clarified that the condominium building
was expected to be 12 stories in total, with three parking levels and nine residential levels. It will
include articulated setbacks. The proposed ranges for height and total number of units were
determined based on the market and site-specific considerations. They intend to follow the
Phasing Plan outlined in the ordinance. The apartments are in Phase 1, and they intend to apply
for a building permit in the coming months.

Commissioner Smith asked if it would be possible to create a rendering of the site from the vantage
of the neighboring community in Holladay. Ms. Namelko stated that renderings were not required
for the current application, but they would be happy to update the renderings at the Commission’s
request. Vice-Chair Steinman stated that it would be advantageous to have updated renderings
from all perspectives.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Ms. Namelko confirmed that the property
includes a portion of Gun Club Road. Commissioner Mills noted that the berm on the south side
of Gun Club Road would provide some protection for Holladay residents and asked about the
applicant’s plans for the interface. He anticipated that it would partially obscure some residents’
view of the Valley, but not the mountains, and asked for more detail regarding site reclamation.
The landscaping plan was displayed. Ms. Namelko reported that the hillside must be reclaimed as
part of the initial phase. That work is underway. The landscape plan includes a retaining wall and
planting of trees, shrubs, bushes, and grasses. The City required that the hillside be brought back
to its natural vegetative state, and they are in the process of doing so. They plan to build the
condominiums lower down in the valley.

Commissioner Mills asked for Ms. Namelko’s feedback on a potential cap on the building height.
Ms. Namelko stated that they would work with the Commission and Staff to determine the best
height for all involved. They are very comfortable with the current 300-foot maximum and intend
to be below 150 feet. Vice-Chair Steinman commented that the Commission was excited to see a
positive change in the area.

Vice-Chair Steinman opened the public hearing.

Bill Hurtado expressed concern about potential light pollution and asked if a study had been
conducted to determine potential negative effects. He is a resident of Holladay and will have a
view of the rear of the building, he was concerned about how it would block his view and how the
150-foot height would be affected by the grade. He was also concerned about the additional traffic
the project would generate.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                           9
Steven Rochich stated that he is a Holladay resident, and the only place on the parcel where the
condominium will impact his neighborhood is the exact location they chose for it. Any other
location in the development would not impact him. He believes the placement is unneighborly
because it will obstruct his view, and he purchased his property for the view of the Valley.

Mike Madsen stated that his home is on the border of Holladay and Cottonwood Heights and he
also owns a short-term rental at the Oaks at Wasatch. He believed there would be accidents at the
entry to the development and recommended only allowing one-way turns at the exit. He asked if
the City would allow short-term rentals in the condominium and noted that it would result in more
traffic and activity in the area. He encouraged the Commission to consider those issues because
currently there are very few legal short-term rentals in Cottonwood Heights but there are many
illegal rentals.

Doug Shelby was present representing Walker Development, which owns the other Gravel Pit
property. He was concerned that the applicant’s traffic study was not accurate. He noted that it
includes calculations for additional intersections on SR 190, but that is a limited-access highway
and those intersections may not be practical. He urged the City to carefully review the study. It
currently shows 30% of traffic going through Walker Development’s property, but they would not
allow that. He stated that there is no longer a berm along Gun Club Road, but Rockworth has
cleaned up the area and it is looking very good.

Roswell Rogers thanked the Commission for allowing Holladay residents to speak to the item. He
lives in the Canyon Ranch neighborhood, and his home is approximately 50 yards from the
proposed condominium building. The berm is now gone. He is glad that the old Gravel Pit
structure and pond have been removed. He is feeling vibrations from the construction, and he is
concerned about potential damage to the stucco, rock, and other elements of the Canyon Ranch
condominiums. He is also concerned about light pollution and traffic. He was grateful to see the
proposed vegetation as it would help limit the amount of dust. He believes there will be both good
and bad outcomes from the project.

City of Holladay Mayor, Rob Dahle, thanked Cottonwood Heights Staff for reaching out to citizens
of Holladay. They understand that the development will happen and needs to happen. He assumed
that the Planning Commission and City Council had some latitude regarding the maximum
building height, and he was concerned about the proposed condominium height.

Holladay City Council Member, Emily Gray, reported that she represents District 5, which abuts
the subject property. Her understanding was that the original height would be eight to 10 stories.
The proposed amendment will increase the height by 50 feet above the original proposal, or a 75%
increase. The impact on Holladay residents will be approximately 60 feet above the berm. It was
also her understanding that the reason the City Council did not originally approve the height was
because they were concerned about allowing a 12 or 14-story building. Residents of Holladay
value living on the East Bench for its suburban character, low-density housing, and mountain
views. The City of Holladay has worked hard to create thoughtful buffers between its R-1
neighborhoods and areas with greater height and density, and she believed Cottonwood Heights
has done that as well along Fort Union Boulevard. Because the Wasatch Rock Development
presents an excellent opportunity for Cottonwood Heights to provide multi-family housing without



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                      10
impacting nearby residential properties, she believes the development makes a lot of sense.
However, single-family neighborhoods in Holladay will be significantly impacted by the height of
the condominium building. When Holladay was developing its Mill Rock zone on its south border,
Cottonwood Heights requested that they relocate an office park to the north end away from Hidden
Mill Cove, and position a parking lot next to the Cottonwood Heights homes, and Holladay
willingly accommodated the request to preserve residents’ views and minimize traffic impacts to
the neighbor. They hoped that Cottonwood Heights would reciprocate that spirit of neighborliness.
She asked that they maintain the original plan’s limits on the condominium building. By doing
so, they can protect the character of their neighborhoods, enabling thoughtful and balanced growth.

Wilson Bateman was pleased to see the project commencing. The Gravel Pit is a scar that produces
a lot of dust, and he understands the need for housing. He is largely in favor of the development.
He likes the landscaping and walking paths. However, very few of the renderings show the direct
impact on the Canyon Cove neighborhood. He requested that the Commission consider what it
will look like from Gun Club Road. He created his own renderings and emailed them to Mr.
Johnson. He lives directly across the road from the proposed condominium building, and its back
corner would be in his direct line of sight. He heard comments that the grade of Gun Club Road
rises quickly and would obscure the building from view, but from the highest point of Gun Club
Road, six residential floors would be visible at the lowest proposed height. His preference was
that it be limited to five residential stories or a total of eight stories rather than the proposed 12 to
14.

Merilee Zaba thanked the Commission for welcoming non-residents to speak on the impacts of
the project. She expressed concern about traffic. She understood that it may be too late to change
anything, but she hoped they would consider that Wasatch Boulevard is her neighborhood’s only
exit south. The traffic impact from the development will be extreme for the neighborhood, and
she hoped the Commission would consider that.

Bonnie Rokeish agreed with her neighbors’ concerns. Traffic was her biggest issue. If there are
325 apartments, residents could potentially have over 600 cars. The condominiums could add
another 200 cars. The hotel will have rental car traffic. She stated that the rendering appeared to
show the only entrance to the community at the two-lane section of Wasatch Boulevard, which is
already greatly impacted by her neighborhood, other residents, and skiers with Ikon passes. She
asked how cars could exit the property in case of an emergency. The traffic study was conducted
five years ago, but she has lived in Canyon Cove for 27 years and has seen traffic increase
dramatically over the last few years. She believed the traffic study should be updated by an
impartial party.

Allison Armstrong reported that she used to live in the neighborhood behind Market Street Grill
but moved due to crime on the walking trails. She requested that the City consider not allowing
walking paths that go directly into the neighborhood. There is a lot of crime on the walking path
along the border of Holladay and I-215. She has two teenage drivers and is concerned about more
traffic in the area. When the last large building was constructed near her previous home in
Cottonwood Heights, they were approved for a taller building because of the precedent set by the
other buildings in the area. She requested that they not approve the proposed building height for
the condominium so that they do not set another precedent.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                             11
Jenny Templar agreed with the other public comments. She was concerned about light, noise, and
traffic. She called the City of Holladay two weeks earlier about a child who was nearly hit on
Wasatch Boulevard. She suggested that everyone drive down Wasatch Boulevard in the winter.
Every weekend, cars park on both sides of the road along the curve where the hotel and
condominium are proposed. She believes ski season needs to be considered in the traffic study. If
residents exit the new development at the second roundabout, that area has very heavy traffic that
travels at a high speed. She is very concerned about the safety issue. She suggested moving the
largest building to the center of the development.

There were no further public comments.

Commissioner Smith moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Mills seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Vice-Chair Steinman asked if the current traffic study considered egress for the southern property
or circulation. Mr. Johnson stated that he believed it factored in a potential future connection to
the south, but he would need to re-familiarize himself with the study prior to the next meeting. He
clarified that a temporary secondary ingress and egress is required on the Site Plan. It follows the
same alignment as the driveway by the ski shop near the site. That access will be required unless
or until a permanent second access point is constructed on the other side of the Gravel Pit. The
secondary access will require a Utah Department of Transportation permit.

Mr. Johnson displayed the original rendering and noted that the condominium building in the
rendering is 12 or 13 stories tall. The proposed building height is comparable to the original. He
then displayed the new rendering with the proposed condominium building. Commissioner
Shelton stated that it intersects the road in a similar location to the original structure. Vice-Chair
Steinman stated that it is a unique site, and Rockworth is maximizing the available space to make
the project feasible. He believed phasing would be contingent upon circulation patterns.

In response to a question from Vice-Chair Steinman, Mr. Johnson stated that the southern property
was an industrial use prior to the City’s incorporation. The Master Plan designates it as a mixed-
use development area. Staff anticipates that the property owner will apply for a high-density
development, but no application has been submitted. The parcel currently has placeholder
residential zoning. It is in the PDD Overlay Zone, so the same parameters that governed the
creation of the PDD-2 Zone will apply. The State is working to identify a location on the southern
parcel for a transit parking structure as contemplated in their Environmental Impact Statement for
canyon traffic. UDOT has no contingencies on the northern parcel other than the permit for
secondary access.

Commissioner Mills stated that Wasatch Boulevard was a very dangerous road prior to 1983.
Before I-215 was completed, it was used as a highway to access downtown Salt Lake City. He
hopes that cool heads will prevail as they navigate changes and improvements, and he believes
that the improvement of the dust bowl and conversion of a defunct industrial area to a much nicer
location will have a net positive effect on all residents. They are sensitive to the fact that there
was a death on Wasatch Boulevard in Holladay in the last month. It is a major arterial roadway



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                          12
that benefits the canyons and is not controlled by Cottonwood Heights. They are hopeful that the
development will not increase traffic fatalities. As a cyclist, he is aware of the traffic concerns in
the area.

Commissioner Smith spoke to the concerns raised about the position of the buildings. He believed
that would require starting over again. Commissioner Mills stated that at the time of original
approval, massing was discussed in detail with the applicant. The property has many constraints
due to the fault hazards, and the City cannot inhibit the property owner’s right to build. It took
two years for the applicant to go through the City’s rigorous process which involved modifying,
moving, and decreasing the size of proposed buildings. He believed the proposed massing of the
condominium building was not based on profit. Mr. Johnson stated that the use, massing, and
location are already entitled for all structures excluding massing and height for the condominium
building, so the applicant would need to voluntarily propose reworking the site in order for any
buildings to be moved. That was outside the scope of the application.

Commissioner Shelton asked Mr. Johnson to address the public concerns about lighting.
Mr. Johnson stated that the original Ordinance requires the developer to comply with the
Cottonwood Heights Lighting Ordinance. East of Wasatch Boulevard, total lighting output, and
required shielding are strictly defined. Commissioner Mills stated that the homes to the north of
the subject property likely have much more liberal standards than the building based on current
lighting standards.

Vice-Chair Steinman invited the applicant for final comments. Ms. Namelko stated that she made
note of every question raised in the public comment period and would respond in writing to
Mr. Johnson. The condominium project was not intended to be a short-term rental product, and
they will follow Cottonwood Heights’ protocol regarding short-term rentals. They intend for it to
be a high-end condominium. The traffic consultant is not related to Rockworth Companies, and
they will be happy to comply with any requests from the City regarding the traffic study. The
traffic consultant was required to work with Holladay City staff to find solutions regarding the
entrance and exit, so that solution was determined by working with Holladay, not Cottonwood
Heights.

Vice-Chair Steinman stated that based on Staff’s recommendation they would table the item to a
February meeting.

Commissioner moved to CONTINUE Project ZTA-24-005 – Introduction and Public Hearing
for a Request by Rockworth Companies to Modify Portions of the Adopted Planned
Development District (“PDD”) Ordinance which Governs the Rockworth Gravel Pit at 6995
South Wasatch Boulevard to the February 5, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting.
Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Shelton-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes; Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Vice-Chair
Steinman-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1     Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from November 6, 2024.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                                          13
      4.2    Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from December 4, 2024.

Commissioner Mills moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented. Commissioner
Shelton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

5.0   Adjourn.

The Business Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:15 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                        14
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Regular Meeting held on
Wednesday, January 8, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 01/08/25                               15
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA

January 22, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on
Wednesday, January 22, 2025 at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood
Heights, UT 84121) for its Work Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams. Please see the reverse side of this agenda
for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any
       projects scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please
       see the Public Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Project CUP-24-019 & SUB-24-008
              Public hearing and potential action on a request by Nathan Anderson for conditional use
              permit and preliminary plat approval to construct a 10-unit live-work townhome
              development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of Planning Commission Minutes from January 8, 2025


       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: February 5, 2025
Public Comment Policy
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m.
Work Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
    1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific
        projects on the meeting agenda.
    2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on
        the meeting agenda which were noticed as public hearings.
Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal
comments cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the
city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not
an opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to
three minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is
present to summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For
written comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the
meeting, they must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, January 21, 2025, the day prior
to the meeting. Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission
after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff
presentation, 3. Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5.
Chair closes public hearing, if applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission
motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the
planning commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the
commission is ready to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a
unanimous vote of the commission. The commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in
the evening and not heard, to the next regularly scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations
or assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7021 at least 24 hours
prior to the meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, January 17, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the
front foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s
website at www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at
http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 17th DAY OF JANUARY, 2025, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
