COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AGENDA
April 2, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Hearing Officer will convene on Wednesday April 2, 2025, at
Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for an Administrative
Hearing Meeting.

The meeting will begin at 12:00 p.m. in the City Hall Room 5 (Council Chambers).

12:00 p.m. ADMINISTRAIVE HEARING MEETING

        1.0 Business Items
                1.1 Project CUP-25-002
                Request by Cameron Hoover, Diamond Bay Management Group LLC, to operate a short-term
                rental at 8276 S. Wasatch Grove Ln.


        2.0 Consent Agenda
                2.1 Approval of Administrative Hearing Officer Minutes from April 2, 2025

                (The Administrative Hearing Officer will approve the minutes of the April 2, 2025, meeting after
                the following process is met. The City Recorder will prepare the minutes and email them to the
                Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer will have five days to review the minutes and provide any
                changes to the Recorder. If, after five days there are no changes, the minutes will stand approved.
                If there are changes, the process will be followed until the changes are made and the hearing
                officer is in agreement, at which time the minutes shall be deemed approved.)

        3.0 Adjourn


Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order:
    1. Staff Presentation
    2. Applicant Presentation
    3. Open Public Hearing (if item has been noticed for public hearing). Each speaker during the public hearing
       will be limited to three minutes.
    4. Close Public Hearing
    5. Administrative Hearing Officer Deliberation
    6. Administrative Hearing Officer Decision

Administrative Hearing applications may be tabled if: 1) Additional information is needed in order to act on the
item; OR 2) The Hearing Officer feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the
Officer is ready to make a decision. The Hearing Officer may carry over agenda items to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Submission of Written Public Comment
Written comments on any agenda item should be received by the Cottonwood Heights Community and
Economic Development Department no later than 12:00 p.m. MDT on Tuesday, April 1, 2025, a day before the
meeting. Comments should be emailed to Planning@ch.utah.gov After the public hearing has been closed, the
Community and Economic Development Department will not accept any additional written or verbal comments
on the application.
Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, March 21, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front
foyer of the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.



DATED THIS 21st DAY OF March, 2025
Attest: Tiffany Janzen, City Recorder
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STAFF REPORT
April 2, 2025

Summary
Project #:
CUP-25-002

Subject Property:
8276 S. Wasatch Grove Ln.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Permit
(Short-Term Rental)

Owner:
Cameron Hoover, Diamond Bay
Management Group LLC

Applicant:
Cameron Hoover, Diamond Bay
Management Group LLC

Recommendation:
Approve, with conditions




                                                                                                Aerial View


Analysis
Adjacent Zoning & Land Use
    •   NORTH: R-2-8 Multi-Family Residential (Oaks at Wasatch Place A PUD)
    •   SOUTH: R-2-8 Multi-Family Residential (Top of the World 5)
    •   EAST: R-1-8 Single-Family Residential (Top of the World 3)
    •   WEST: PF Public Facilities (Golden Hills Park)

Staff Analysis
The unit contains four bedrooms. The applicant is proposing to accommodate up to 10 guests at a time.
The unit provides two designated parking spaces on the existing driveway. Parking is restricted to the
driveway only; garage parking is not permitted. A maximum of two vehicles per reservation is allowed.
Occupants will have access to the management company call center or complaint line 24/7 to resolve
concerns or issues. The property is located in the R-2-8 (Multi-Family Residential) Zone. Short-term rentals
may be approved as a conditional use in the R-2-8 Zone, provided that the property is part of a planned
unit development or condominium project that contains at least eight units and fronts on a private street.
The subject property is a part of the Oaks at Wasatch PUD B, which contains 57 units. The property fronts
Wasatch Grove Ln., which is a private street.
                                                   Administrative Hearing Staff Report – April 2, 2025
                                                    Project CUP-25-002 – 8276 S. Wasatch Grove Ln.

Recommended Conditions of Approval
Staff recommends approval, with conditions as outlined below:

   1. The applicant must complete necessary steps to obtain a business license through the city of
      Cottonwood Heights. Obtaining a business license will indicate final approval of the short-term
      rental application. The short-term rental property will not be considered legal until a business
      license is obtained.
   2. The short-term rental property is required to maintain compliance with all sections and
      subsections of Chapter 19.89 and Chapter 5.85 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code, as
      hereafter amended from time to time, and all other legal requirements and applicable laws.
   3. The Operators shall provide a 24/7 hotline to resolve issues. Operators shall respond (in person,
      if appropriate) to telephonic complaints within one hour after such complaint is made.
      Inappropriate and/or non-response to such complaints shall constitute a violation.
   4. Occupancy in any short-term rental property shall not exceed the lesser of: (a) up to two adults
      (persons aged 18 and above) and two related children (persons under age 18) per bedroom, or
      (b) a total occupancy (adults and children) of no more than 12 persons in the entire short-term
      rental property. It is prohibited to create artificial divisions or partitions for the purpose of
      increasing available occupancy of an otherwise standard dwelling unit.
   5. This short-term rental property will be approved for no more than four (4) bedrooms. The term
      “bedroom” means a room designated and used primarily for sleeping and rest on a bed.
   6. Upon issuance of a business license and conditional use permit, the applicant must display a copy
      of the business license inside the main entry of the property.

Findings for Approval
This recommendation is based on the following findings:

   1. The proposed short-term rental meets the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.89 and Chapter
      5.85 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.
   2. That the proposed project will continue to meet the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.84,
      “Conditional Uses,” of the zoning code:
          a. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
               in which it is to be located (19.89.050);
          b. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to
               the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
               vicinity;
          c. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit and regulations of this title and will be
               compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
          d. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which
               it is to be located;
          e. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses will be abated
               by the conditions imposed;
          f. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
               assured;
          g. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;


                                                                                                Page 2 of 3
                                                 Administrative Hearing Staff Report – April 2, 2025
                                                  Project CUP-25-002 – 8276 S. Wasatch Grove Ln.

           h. That the property will be required to comply with all conditions of approval in perpetuity,
              in accordance with Sections 19.89.160 – Inspections and 19.89.190 – Violations and
              penalties of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code.

Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve item CUP-25-002 pursuant to the conditions of approval outlined in the item’s staff
report
    • Add any additional conditions of approval…

Denial
I move to deny item CUP-25-002 based on the following findings…”
    • List reasons for denial…



Attachments
   1. Photos
   2. Parking and floor plan




                                                                                             Page 3 of 3
