COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA

April 16, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, April
16, 2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams. Please see the reverse side of this agenda for
instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Project CUP-25-003
              A public hearing and potential action on a request by James Carroll on behalf of Cottonwood
              Compounding for a Conditional Use Permit to operate a compounding pharmacy at 7076 S.
              Highland Dr.

               3.2 Project ZTA-25-001
               A public hearing and potential action on a staff-initiated Zoning Text Amendment to codify a
               definition for the live-work land use type in City Code.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of March 5, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: May 7, 2025
Public Comment Policy
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, April 15, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, April 11, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 11th DAY OF APRIL, 2025, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
April 16, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-003

Subject Property:
8145 S. Pinecreek Ln.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
operate a compounding
pharmacy (Cottonwood
Compounding)

Applicant:
James Carroll

Recommendation:
APPROVE




                              Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Kevin and Kristin
Witzenman

Acreage:
0.47 acres




                                    Google Street View
                                                            Planning Commission – April 16, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-001 – 7076 S. Highland Dr.

Request and Background
The applicant is requesting approval to operate a compounding pharmacy (Cottonwood
Compounding) within an existing commercial building. The business currently operates out of a
suite at the building just to the north at 7050 S. Highland Dr (also located within the Regional
Commercial (CR) zone. As a compounding pharmacy, the business provides specialty
pharmaceutical services to clients, who are recommended to the pharmacy by doctors. The
pharmacy’s hours of operation are 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday. More details on the
applicant’s business can be found in the project narrative, attached to this report.

The property is located in the Regional Commercial (CR) zone, which allows drugstores as a
Conditional Use. The applicant is seeking to occupy the first story of the building, which was most
previously used as a hair salon. The total space occupied by the business will be approximately
3,100 square feet, not including utility space. A floor plan for the proposed internal modifications to
the suite is attached. A Pilates studio currently operates on the upper level of the building, and is
not affected by this proposal.




    The subject property, 7076 S. Highland Dr., is highlighted by blue outline in the Zoning Map
                                           screenshot.
                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                                                              Planning Commission – April 16, 2025
                                                         Project CUP-25-001 – 7076 S. Highland Dr.


While no changes are being made to the site plan of the property, the applicant is proposing
superficial exterior modifications to the first story of the building. These changes do not trigger a full
site plan review, but the applicant has applied for a certificate of design compliance with the
Architectural Review Commission. That application is separate from the conditional use
application, and is tentatively scheduled for review by the Commission at the April 24, 2025
meeting.

______________________________________________________________
Analysis
Zoning and Land Use

The zoning designation for the property is CR Regional Commercial. Drugstores are listed as a
conditional use in the CR zone. While there is a difference between a traditional drugstore and a
compounding pharmacy, staff finds the uses to be reasonably analogous in terms of land use
impact. Additionally, other pharmacy uses exist / have existed in the CR zone. The proposed use,
for example, currently operates on the adjacent CR-zoned parcel. Other pharmacies, such as
Walgreen’s and CVS also operate within CR-zoned properties in the city.

As a conditional use, this application is entitled to approval unless reasonable conditions cannot
be imposed to mitigate negative impacts of the use. The following excerpt from Utah State Code
further describes this:

        i) A land use authority shall approve a conditional use if reasonable conditions are
           proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
           effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. (10-9a-507-2)


        (ii) The requirement described in Subsection (2)(a)(i) to reasonably mitigate anticipated
             detrimental effects of the proposed conditional use does not require elimination of the
             detrimental effects. (10-9a-507-2)

Parking and Traffic

City Code derives minimum required parking stalls by utilizing the most recent version of the
International Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation manual. For a pharmacy use of this
size, the ITE requires a total of 8 stalls for this particular land use. The business will be responsible
for maintaining the availability of stalls for staff and customers.

The property contains a total of 30 parking stalls, and the required parking for the proposed use is
less than the requirement for the previous hair salon use (10 stalls). Staff finds this application
compliant with minimum parking requirements. With no changes proposed to the site or existing
building, and anticipated traffic impact of the use being no greater than the previous tenant in the
space (client-focused hair salon), staff does not find that the proposed use merits the requirement
of a traffic impact study.


                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                            Planning Commission – April 16, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-001 – 7076 S. Highland Dr.



Conditional Use Permit Procedure and Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for administrative applications, including the
conditional use approval requested by this project. The details of such authority are included
below:

       Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
       public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
       factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
       approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;
       postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
       applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84.080)

       A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
       imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
       accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
       imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
       conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)



Noticing
Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The application was made pursuant to Title 19 of Cottonwood Heights City Code;
   3. Public noticing for this project was provided in accordance with local and state
      requirements;
   4. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
      in which it is to be located;
   5. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
      health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
      vicinity;
   6. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
      compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;


                                                                                          Page 4 of 5
                                                           Planning Commission – April 16, 2025
                                                      Project CUP-25-001 – 7076 S. Highland Dr.

   7. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
       to be located;
   8. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
       the conditions imposed;
   9. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
       assured;
   10. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
   11. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
       imposed on the applicant or owner;
   12. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
   13. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
   14. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
       and visual impacts;
   15. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   16. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
   17. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   18. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.




Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-003.
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-003 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated April 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-003 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




Attachments
   1. Project Narrative
   2. Plan Set Excerpts



                                                                                         Page 5 of 5
                             Project Narrative: 7076 Highland Drive

Organization name: Cottonwood Compounding Inc
Project Type: Interior & Exterior remodel of old “Tangles Salon” on 7076 S. Highland Drive

         Our aim is to serve the community better in a newly remodeled and significantly larger
and better equipped facility. We are currently tenants at the Willow Creek Medical building next
door at 7050 S. Highland Drive. We provide specialty compounded and commercially available
prescription medications to the community of Cottonwood Heights as well as the surrounding
area. The majority of our clients are recommended to us by doctors specializing in hormone
replacement therapy, weight loss as well as many other specialties. We provide specially
compounded creams, capsules, troches, suspensions and injectable medications.
​
         Cottonwood Compounding’s hours of operation are Monday through Friday 9-5. We
employ approximately 15 people at the pharmacy. Two or three of these employees are drivers
who provide our customers with very convenient weekly deliveries of their medications. The
majority of our customer base never comes to the pharmacy building at all, preferring to have
their medications mailed or delivered. The ones who choose to come in are greeted by very
friendly and knowledgeable pharmacy technicians, clerks or pharmacists. This consists of
approximately 20-30 customers per day and usually not more than 5-6 at a time.
​
         We do not provide any outdoor services or drive thru’s. All work will be done inside on
the main level of the building. The current pilates studio will remain upstairs. Fortunately our
business will not create any additional noises or odors and is significantly quieter than the salon
that occupied it previously. Any potential odor would also be taken care of by the hepa filter
systems used in our labs and tested regularly by DOPL and Intelligent Enclosures.
​
         The remodel of this building will include improvements on the main level, new offices and
labs. Improvements will be done to the plumbing, electrical and HVAC system. The exterior will
consist of a full face lift improving the look of the building. We will paint or replace the red metal
roof, soffit and fascia. We will paint the cinder block and add complimentary colored siding on
the bottom half of the building, making the building look more like an historic 1800’s pharmacy. It
is my opinion that this will significantly improve the appearance of the building, similar to the
beautiful Silcox building down the street with its vintage feel.
​
         We are currently the only independent, family owned pharmacy within Cottonwood
Heights. As a company, we are incredibly loyal to this area as I have personally been here my
entire life. I have loved seeing it grow and improve over the years, and it is my desire to be a
part of its growth and beauty.

Thank you,

Kristin and Kevin Witzenman
Cottonwood Compounding Inc.
    PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION:            PREPARED FOR:                           PREPARED BY:                     FLOOR ELEVATIONS                              LEGEND
     MEETS AND BOUNDS                  DR. & MRS. KEVIN WITZENMAN              JAMES L. CARROLL & ASSOCIATES
                                                                                                                                            EXISTING GRADE      PROPOSED GRADE
     7076 SOUTH HIGHLAD DRIVE          7050 SOUTH HIGHTLAND DRIVE SUITE 110    231 EAST 400 SOUTH SUITE #35
     COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111
                                       (801) 201-0061                          (801) 359-8517

                                                                                                                        APPLICABLE BUILDING CODES:


Site Plan


                                                                                                                                                                                 13 FEBRUARY, 2025




                                                                                                                                                                                   THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND
                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                   TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC
                                                                                                                                                                                   REPRESENTATION AND MODLS
                                                                                                                                                                                   THEREOR, ARE PROPRIETARY AND
                                                                                                                                                                                   CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED
                                                                                                                                                                                   OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                   WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                   SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                   PERMISSTION FROM MENDENHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN LLC.
                                                                                                                                                                                   THESE DRAWINGS ARE AVAILABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR LIMITED REVIEW AND
                                                                                                                                                                                   EVALUATION BY CLIENTS,
                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS,
                                                                                                                                                                                   GOVENRMENTAL AGENCIES,
                                                                                                                                                                                   VENDORS AND OFFICE
                                                                                                                                                                                   PERSONNEL ONLY IN
                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCORDANCE WITH THIS NOTICE.




                                                                                                                                                                                           COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                                                                                                                                              7076 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEETS AND BOUNDS
                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE MARK DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                                                  Project number

                                                                                                                                                                                  Date    13 FEBRUARY, 2025
                                                                                                                                                                                  Drawn by

                                                                                                                                                                                  Checked by



                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING SITE PLAN




                                                                                                                                                                                     L-1.0
Current Floorplan
(Salon)                    SQUARE FOOTAGES:
                    MAIN FLOOR:                    3,106 SQ FT
                    SUBTOTAL                       3,106 SQ FT
                    STOR./MECH. @ MAIN FLOOR:       180 SQ FT

                    TOTAL:                      3,286 SQ FT




                                                                 13 FEBRUARY, 2025




                                                                   THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND
                                                                   DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                   TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC
                                                                   REPRESENTATION AND MODLS
                                                                   THEREOR, ARE PROPRIETARY AND
                                                                   CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED
                                                                   OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN
                                                                   WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                   SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN
                                                                   PERMISSTION FROM MENDENHALL
                                                                   ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN LLC.
                                                                   THESE DRAWINGS ARE AVAILABLE
                                                                   FOR LIMITED REVIEW AND
                                                                   EVALUATION BY CLIENTS,
                                                                   CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS,
                                                                   GOVENRMENTAL AGENCIES,
                                                                   VENDORS AND OFFICE
                                                                   PERSONNEL ONLY IN
                                                                   ACCORDANCE WITH THIS NOTICE.




                                                                           COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                              7076 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                 MEETS AND BOUNDS
                                                                  DATE MARK DESCRIPTION




                                                                  Project number

                                                                  Date    13 FEBRUARY, 2025
                                                                  Drawn by

                                                                  Checked by



                                                                  EXISTING MAIN FLOOR
                                                                  & DEMO PLAN




                                                                    A-3.0
Proposed Floorplan
(Pharmacy)
                            SQUARE FOOTAGES:
                     MAIN FLOOR:                    3,106 SQ FT
                     SUBTOTAL                       3,106 SQ FT
                     STOR./MECH. @ MAIN FLOOR:       180 SQ FT

                     TOTAL:                      3,286 SQ FT




                                                                  13 FEBRUARY, 2025




                                                                    THE DESIGNS SHOWN AND
                                                                    DESCRIBED HEREIN INCLUDING ALL
                                                                    TECHNICAL DRAWINGS, GRAPHIC
                                                                    REPRESENTATION AND MODLS
                                                                    THEREOR, ARE PROPRIETARY AND
                                                                    CAN NOT BE COPIED, DUPLICATED
                                                                    OR COMMERCIALLY EXPLOITED IN
                                                                    WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE
                                                                    SOLE AND EXPRESS WRITTEN
                                                                    PERMISSTION FROM MENDENHALL
                                                                    ARCHITECTURE & DESIGN LLC.
                                                                    THESE DRAWINGS ARE AVAILABLE
                                                                    FOR LIMITED REVIEW AND
                                                                    EVALUATION BY CLIENTS,
                                                                    CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS,
                                                                    GOVENRMENTAL AGENCIES,
                                                                    VENDORS AND OFFICE
                                                                    PERSONNEL ONLY IN
                                                                    ACCORDANCE WITH THIS NOTICE.




                                                                            COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84121
                                                                               7076 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE
                                                                                  MEETS AND BOUNDS
                                                                   DATE MARK DESCRIPTION




                                                                   Project number

                                                                   Date    13 FEBRUARY, 2025
                                                                   Drawn by

                                                                   Checked by



                                                                   PROPOSED MAIN
                                                                   FLOOR PLAN




                                                                     A-3.1
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
April 16, 2025


Request
Due to concerns regarding the lack of a codified definition for a live-work use type, the City Council
voted on February 18, 2025 to impose a moratorium on all live/work applications for up to 180
days. This only applies to applications submitted after the moratorium was enacted.

While the moratorium is in place, staff has been instructed to develop a definition for live/work
uses for consideration and possible codification.

Background & Overview
Concerns regarding a proposed live-work development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. (subsequently
withdrawn) led to the issuance of a moratorium on new live-work land use applications in the city.
Staff researched various definitions and regulatory practices from the Planner’s Dictionary, Urban
Land Institute, other cities in Utah and around the country to create the proposed definition
attached to this memo.

Staff also researched potential alternatives to codifying a definition, which are also included in the
attachment.

Recommendation & Model Motions
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission discuss the proposed definition, modify it as
desired, and forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for the proposed changes.

Approval
I move that we forward a recommendation of approval to the City Council for project ZTA-25-001,
based on the finding listed in the staff memo and attachments dated April 16, 2025.
    • List any other findings or conditions for recommendation of approval…

Denial
I move that we forward a recommendation of denial to the City Council for project ZTA-25-001,
based on the following findings…
    • List findings for negative recommendation…



Attachments
   1. Proposed Changes
Proposed Live-Work Land Use Definition
While the NC Neighborhood Commercial zone allows Live/Work Spaces as a conditional use, the
city lacks a formal definition for what constitutes a live/work space. The definition below seeks to
define what the space is, and outlines proposals for how the share of uses should be regulated by
the city.

Concerns regarding a proposed live/work development in the NC zone caused the City Council to
issue a moratorium on allowing new live/work uses in the city. Staff was directed to study and craft
a proposed definition for live/work spaces that satisfied concerns related to having a primarily
residential land use in a commercial zone. Staff researched definitions from the Planner’s
Dictionary, Urban Land Institute and other cities to create the proposed definition below.


Title 19 Zoning
19.04 Definitions
19.04.1435 Live/Work Space

       A living unit used simultaneously for both residential occupancy and commercial activity by
       the same occupant(s). The commercial portion of the live/work space shall constitute a
       minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit. At least 50% of the unit’s
       frontage at ground level along the public right of way shall be dedicated to the commercial
       portion of the space. Any commercial use within a live/work unit must be included as a
       permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone.




Alternatives
The Planning Commission could also consider making recommendations to City Council to adopt
additional regulations pertaining to Live/Work spaces, such as:

   -   Adding additional regulation to the live-work space definition
           o Restricting/limiting commercial uses
           o Imposing size requirements on commercial space
   -   Replacing Live/Work use with Mixed Use
           o Would allow a combination of uses on a development-wide scale rather than within
               individual units
   -   Striking Live/Work as an allowed use in the NC zone
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                 Wednesday, March 5, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Work Room

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Dan
                      Mills, Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton,
                      Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:        City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel;
                      Associate City Planner/Sustainability Analyst, Ian Harris; Community and
                      Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; System Administrator,
                      Alex Earl

WORK SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Work Meeting to order at 5:00 PM.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson, introduced New Planning
Commissioner, Garry Barnes. Commissioner Barnes stated that he is a former commercial banker.
He retired a few years ago and has been working as a consultant to banks, aviation companies, and
universities. He has lived in Cottonwood Heights four times.

1.0    Dakota Pacific Development Discussion.

Mr. Johnson reported that Dakota Pacific Real Estate purchased the vacant three-acre parcel
adjacent to Hillrise Apartments and is working on a Development Plan for an infill residential
project on the site. The plan was previously shared with the City Council.

Steve Borup from Dakota Pacific introduced his colleagues, Ray Bryson and Brian Dilley.
Mr. Borup reported that the parcel is located next to the Rocky Mountain Power substation. The
land was acquired in 2024 from the owners of Hillrise Apartments and they have spent the last
year determining the best development for the area, and how it will work with the Town Center
and neighboring developments. They considered densities ranging from high-rise condominiums
to townhomes and decided upon medium density, with three- and four-story buildings consisting
of approximately 120 units with tuck-under garages.

A map of the area and concept drawings were reviewed. The property fronts 2300 East and is
adjacent to the future Town Center. Dakota Pacific views it as an entrance into the new Town
Center area, and as such they plan to emphasize the pedestrian experience. Mr. Borup reported
that they are close to going under contract to purchase Hillrise Apartments. They are now



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                      1
considering that adjacency and circulation, and their plans assume shared infrastructure. Their
plan for the Hillrise Apartments is to renovate and upgrade the units and landscaping.

Mr. Borup reported that the parcel is currently under commercial zoning but they considered the
draft form-based code and City goals for the town Center in the design. They discussed a potential
mix of commercial and residential on the site but determined that it would be more beneficial to
provide the needed residential components for Hillside Plaza. Another consideration was the
ability to build in today’s market. They want to move forward with a project as soon as possible.
They want to create a diversity of housing options, but they do not want to set a price point that
people cannot afford.

The Concept Plan includes approximately 120 rental units with a parking ratio of 1.6. There will
be surface parking in two parking lots separated by a building. Parking stalls will be assigned.
Mr. Borup noted that there is a 30-foot difference in grade between the southeast and northwest
corners of the property. The leasing office will be located at the lowest point on the northwest
corner. It will have storefront-style glass along 2300 East and look more commercial. A fitness
center, outdoor amenities, and green space will be located on the south side of the property. In
response to a question, it was clarified that the parking ratio was determined by the market.

There will be two ingress and egress points. The current Hillrise Apartments entrance will be
redeveloped to remove the old walls and create more green space, and the secondary access point
will be next to the daycare. Currently, residents of Hillrise Apartments use both entrances.
Mr. Borup clarified that there is a recorded easement for the access south of the daycare building.
Hillrise Apartments is currently overparked at two parking stalls per unit, and they hope to take
advantage of that excess parking to allow for additional units in the new buildings.

Commissioner Mills noted that the excess parking for Hillrise Apartments is in the northeast corner
of the lot, not to the south near the subject property. He also asked that they consider moving the
fitness space to the first level on 2300 East as it would be more in keeping with the goal of form-
based code.

The buildings will be three and four stories. Renderings indicate a townhome-style look along
2300 East, and all entrances on that frontage will have an awning. The frontage will include a
bicycle and pedestrian lane, seating areas, and landscaping to activate the streetscape.
Commissioner Mills stated that the Commission has strong opinions on how the frontage should
be handled and requested that they look carefully at the Fort Union Master Plan to better
understand the City’s vision. Mr. Borup stated that this frontage will not have a true boulevard
feel with parking, but there will be a pedestrian priority. He noted that the design assumes more
right-of-way than currently exists, and the location of the parked car on the rendering could be a
bicycle lane. It was noted that there is currently a bicycle lane in that location.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, it was clarified that the grade change will be
incorporated within the buildings’ structure. The second building will have three- and four-story
sections, and its parking lot will be 15 feet above the lower parking lot. There will also be some
tuck-under parking on the lower level of that building. The building itself will act as a retaining
wall, and there will be one small retaining wall in one area of the property. They will match



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                        2
existing grade levels at the property lines. Commissioner Mills expressed his appreciation for the
grade changes being incorporated into the property to make the area genuinely walkable.

Commissioner Steinman asked if they had considered a rideshare program to reduce the parking
ratio and promote more Transit-Oriented Development (“TOD”) features. The developer
responded that they have looked at developments with those features. They are practical regarding
transportation for work and education purposes, but people still want two cars for entertainment
and outdoor activities. They recently made an offer on a TOD site in the West Jordan area. The
site has one parking space per unit, and the entire neighborhood around it is full of street-parked
cars. The ratio is normally 1.6 to 1.8 cars per unit. They want to avoid overflowing parking in the
community, especially in this neighborhood where there is not ample street parking.

Commissioner Steinman recommended considering four to six rideshares that are managed by the
apartment complex as he has seen that work in other communities. Mr. Borup stated that they
offered a rideshare program in downtown Boseman, Montana, and it was a struggle. The rideshare
car was not used. He understands Commissioner Steinman’s goal, but the challenge is in changing
behavior to get people out of cars. Building code usually allows reductions in parking stalls in
exchange for things like bicycle storage spaces, which they have done on other projects. They are
willing to consider those types of reductions, but they do not believe that a full TOD of one stall
per unit would be practical.

In response to a question, Mr. Borup reported that 40% to 45% of the units will be one bedroom
and 40% to 40% two bedrooms, with a few studio and three-bedroom units. They will conduct a
market study to confirm the unit mix. It will be a market-rate project.

Mr. Johnson reported that the concept was presented to the City Council, and they were supportive
of it. It will require a site-specific rezoning plan similar to the Planned Development process.
They are coordinating the technical requirements now, and then the item will come back to the
Planning Commission for formal review and public comment. In response to a question,
Mr. Johnson clarified that the parcel is currently zoned Regional Commercial. The project would
not fit within any existing zones, so it would have to be a site-specific redevelopment.

Dakota Pacific is excited about the project and the future Town Center. Their office is in
Cottonwood Corporate Center, and many of their employees live in Cottonwood Heights.
Commissioner Mills stated that Dakota Pacific’s purchase of Hillrise Apartments is indicative of
their commitment to the community, and he was excited about the new development.

2.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Anderson reported that the Commission would consider a Zoning Map Amendment,
followed by Project CUP-24-019, which was continued from the February 5, 2025 meeting.

Mr. Johnson reported that the applicant had not resubmitted or responded with additional details
for the CUP-24-019 Live/Work Project. They are considering various options for the site,
including submittal of a different type of project, and requested that the Commission table that
item until the next meeting. The City Council has implemented a Land Use moratorium on the



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                        3
Live/Work use type in order to better define it. As long as this application is active, it is not
impacted by the moratorium, but it would apply to any new applications in any zone that includes
that use type. The moratorium will be in place for a maximum of 180 days or until the Code is
amended. A draft of the changes will be discussed at the April 5, 2025, Planning Commission
meeting. In response to a question from Chair Anderson, Mr. Johnson clarified that he did not
know if the applicant would be ready at the next meeting, but continuing the item again was a
reasonable request.

Associate City Planner/Sustainability Analyst, Ian Harris, provided details on the Zoning Map
Amendment, Project ZMA-25-001. The subject property is approximately 1.5 acres and is
currently zoned Rural Residential RR-1-43, which requires a minimum lot size of one acre, and
the Applicant requested rezoning to RR-1-21, which requires a minimum of one-half acre. It was
noted that many neighboring properties in the RR-1-43 Zone do not meet the minimum one-acre
requirement. The Applicant has applied for rezoning in the hope that they can subdivide their
property into two lots with a flag lot similar to two adjacent properties to the north. Any future
subdivision plan would require a new application and Staff review.

Staff determined that rezoning the property is within the context of the surrounding area, will meet
the requirements for the RR-1-21 Zone, and is compatible with the Residential Rural Density Land
Use designation. Much of the surrounding development is in the RR-1-21 Zone. Any development
on the property would be required to comply with the standards of the new zone, as well as any
relevant Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone standards as the property falls within that zone.

Zoning Map Amendments are legislative actions. The Planning Commission has the authority to
take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal, and make a recommendation of approval
or denial to the City Council. The City Council is the final approval authority.

Notices were mailed to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property and posted on
the property 10 days in advance of the meeting. No public comments were received. Staff
recommended approval of the project.

In response to a question, Mr. Harris clarified that the minimum lot size in the RR-1-21 Zone is
one-half acre and there is no maximum. Mr. Johnson noted that if the property is subdivided, the
flag lot is required to be 125% of the minimum lot size and will have additional setback
requirements. The subdivision would be approved at the Staff level, and they would help the
Applicant through that process. Additional flag lot requirements were discussed and compared
with the existing flag lots north of the subject property, and it was noted that the existing home
would be on the flag lot and appeared to meet all requirements.

Commissioner Mills asked about the potential impacts of rezoning on the property to the south,
which appears to be horse property. Mr. Johnson stated that the property also has the Rural
Residential Land Use designation. Fewer animals are allowed on half-acre lots, but they are in the
same category. He noted that the property to the south is zoned RR-1-43 but is only three-quarters
of an acre, so it is a nonconforming lot.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                         4
Chair Anderson reminded the Commissioners about the requirement for four hours of training,
which can be met in a variety of ways. She will forward the document with training resources to
Commissioner Barnes. It was noted that two hours of training are provided in Work Sessions. Mr.
Johnson reported that they would invite the Property Rights Ombudsman’s Office to conduct a
training. City Attorney, Shane Topham, would also conduct one training. Commissioner Mills
asked for direction on topics the Commissioners may want to research. Mr. Johnson stated that
they would see a lot of legislative items and special redevelopment projects in the future.

Mr. Johnson provided an update on the Town Center project. The request for proposals closed in
February and seven responses were received. Staff reviewed the responses and are scheduling
interviews with the finalists. The City Council voted to authorize beginning the bonding process,
with a tentative target of bond issuance near the end of the fiscal year.

A presentation was given on the North Gravel Pit project at the previous evening’s City Council
Meeting. The Architectural Review Commission will review the plan at its next meeting, and then
it will go before the City Council for final consideration in April. There had been no updates on
the South Gravel Pit.

The variance application for demolition of the Old Mill was denied. If the owner wishes to modify
the historic structure, they must initiate the one-year Conditional Use Permit process. The
application has not been submitted, so the one-year period has not started.

Mr. Harris noted that a Development Activity Report is published monthly, and it is a great
resource to keep the Commissioners informed about Staff-level activity.

Commissioner Barnes asked why a General Obligation (“GO”) bond was selected. Mr. Johnson
stated that the City Council chose a GO bond as the interest rates are typically lower because the
bond is backed by property taxes. The Council wanted the public to make that decision, and
putting it on the ballot was their way of ensuring the decision was made in the most democratic
way possible.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Meeting adjourned at 5:53 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                       5
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                  Wednesday, March 5, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Dan
                       Mills, Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Mike Shelton,
                       Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel;
                       Associate City Planner/Sustainability Analyst, Ian Harris; Community and
                       Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; System Administrator,
                       Alex Earl

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Business Meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

Chair Anderson disclosed that she is acquainted with the Applicant for Item 3.1 and she would,
therefore, be recusing herself from that decision.

2.0    General Public Comment.

Nick Danziger reported that he owns a home in Canyon Centre. He and his wife spend a lot of
time traveling, and they occasionally rent out their home as a short-term rental. He asked that the
City take into account the character of the area when considering new short-term rental regulations.
His home is next to the area that was grandfathered in with short-term rentals. On the other side,
a new condominium building is being constructed. A hotel and restaurants are next to that
building. He wants to follow the rules but it is difficult because they are on a City street and
regulations do not allow a short-term rental. All units in his development have a two-car garage,
and they have a permit for designated street parking. He asked that the Commission consider the
area he is in when setting any rules.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                         6
3.0    Business Items.

       3.1     Project ZMA-25-001 - A Public Hearing and Potential Action on a Request by
               Deanne Child for a Zoning Map Amendment to Rezone a Property at 8145
               South Pinecreek Lane from RR-1-43 (Rural Single-Family Residential) to RR-
               1-21 (Rural Single-Family Residential).

Chair Anderson reported that the above item was discussed during the Work Session. Associate
City Planner/Sustainability Analyst, Ian Harris reported that the application was for a Zoning Map
Amendment to rezone the property at 8145 South Pinecreek Lane from RR-1-43, which requires
minimum one-acre lots, to RR-1-2, which has a one-half acre minimum. Staff recommended
approval of the application as the new zone would fit with the context of the surrounding
neighborhood.

The Applicant, Deanne Child reported that she has lived in her home since 1977. The other two
original lots have been rezoned and subdivided. She would like to subdivide her property, sell the
front lot, and remain in her home on the rear parcel. She has confirmed that emergency vehicles
can access her home from the private driveway. Mr. Harris noted that a representative from the
Unified Fire Authority was present at the pre-application meeting and expressed no concerns about
the driveway or turnaround. Those standards will also be reviewed as part of the subdivision
application.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Shelton moved to recommend APPROVAL of Project ZMA-25-001 to the City
Council, based on the Findings and Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated March
5, 2025. Commissioner Steinman seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Chair Anderson-Abstain. The
motion passed unanimously with one abstention.

       3.2     Project CUP-24-019 – Continuation from February 5, 2025, Planning
               Commission Meeting – Consideration of a Request by Nathan Anderson for a
               Conditional Use Permit and Preliminary Plat Approval to Construct a Nine-
               Unit Live-Work Townhome Development at 3425 East Bengal Boulevard. The
               Applicant has Requested Further Continuation of this Item to the April 2025
               Planning Commission Meeting.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson, reported that should the
applicant decide to propose a different use type within the Neighborhood Commercial Zone, the
process would restart and be noticed as a new application. The continuation would only be valid
for a submittal under the Live/Work use type.

Commissioner Mills moved to CONTINUE Project CUP-24-019 to the April 2, 2025, Planning
Commission meeting. Commissioner Smith seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                       7
Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Chair
Anderson-Yes. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.0   Consent Agenda

      4.1    Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from February 5, 2025.

Commissioner Steinman moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda, as presented.
Commissioner Poulson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

5.0   Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Shelton
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:14 PM.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                             8
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Regular Meeting held on
Wednesday, March 5, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 03/05/25                                9
