COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
May 7, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, May 7,
2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.2 Project CUP-25-004
              A public hearing and potential action on a request by Bento Viana on behalf of União do Vegetal
              Church (UDV) for a conditional use permit to operate a church at a former Wells Fargo branch at
              3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

               3.2 Project ZMA-25-002 (General Plan Amendment)
               A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on a request by Adam Nash for a
               General Plan (Land Use Map) Amendment at 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd. The applicant is requesting a
               change from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density.

               3.3 Project ZMA-25-002 (Zoning Map Amendment)
               A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on a request by Adam Nash for a
               Zoning Map Amendment (Rezone) at 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd. The applicant is requesting a change
               from R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family) to R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family).

               3.4 Project ZTA-25-001
               A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on a city-initiated Zoning Text
               Amendment to codify a definition for the live-work land use type in City Code.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
               4.1 Approval of April 16, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: June 4, 2025

Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, May 6, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, May 2, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 2ND DAY OF MAY, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
May 7, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-004

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
operate a church

Applicant:
Bento Viana; Beneficent
Spiritist Center Uniao do
Vegetal

Recommendation:
APPROVE




                              Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Nathan Anderson
SAW Family Partners, LLC

Acreage:
0.48 acres




                                            Street View




                                                                   Page 1 of 8
                                                               Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                         Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.




Request and Background
The applicant is requesting approval to operate a church use within the existing building on the
subject property (formerly a Wells Fargo bank branch). The applicant is not proposing any
alterations to the existing site or building, although the existing drive-through will not be utilized as
such. Minor internal modifications are proposed to retrofit the internal space to suit the needs of
the proposed church use.

According to the applicant’s narrative, the proposed church use is for a congregation of the
formally recognized non-profit religious organization known as The Beneficent Spiritist Center
Uniao do Vegetal (UDV). The proposed church will hold regular gatherings on the first and third
Saturday of each month, with services lasting from 8:00 p.m. – 12:15 a.m. One or two additional
gatherings may be held, at the operator’s discretion, typically on weekday evenings or Sundays at
noon. The congregation consists of 47 total members, with 40-45 members per gathering. The
applicant’s narrative states that many members of the congregation live nearby, and that most of
the congregation consists of families that carpool to gatherings. The existing site includes a total of
15 parking stalls, plus an additional 5 off-site stalls utilized across the street (and the potential for
an additional parking space or two underneath the existing bank drive-through canopy).

The property is in the Neighborhood Commercial (NC) zone, which allows churches as a
Conditional Use (the adjacent property to the east is currently a church operated by The Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. As stated above, the applicant is not proposing any significant
site modifications or exterior changes to the building. No changes to landscaping, site lighting,
trash receptacles, driveways, etc. are proposed. Additionally, the applicant is proposing to utilize
                                                                                           Page 2 of 8
                                                           Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                     Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

multiple parking stalls within the commercial development across Bengal Boulevard to the south
to accommodate overflow parking needs for members of the church’s leadership. The applicant’s
narrative also includes a parking diagram that shows it will restrict church members from parking
on the adjacent public right-of-way (Oak Shadow Circle) and the adjacent privately owned church
property’s parking lot.




Conditional Use Permit Procedure and Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for administrative applications, including the
conditional use approval requested by this project. The details of such authority are included
below:

       Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
       public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
       factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
       approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;
       postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
       applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84.080)


                                                                                       Page 3 of 8
                                                             Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

       A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
       imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
       accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
       imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
       conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)



Utah Religious Land Use Act
As a federally recognized non-profit religious organization, the proposed church use requires the
city to adhere to the Utah Religious Land Use Act (URLUA) (Utah Code Ann. 63L-5-101 et seq). This
Act provides that government may not impose or implement a land use regulation in a manner that
imposes a substantial burden on a person’s free exercise of religion unless the burden (a) is in
furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (b) is the least restrictive means of
furthering that compelling government interest. Given that the site is existing, and no modifications
are proposed, staff recommends that the Planning Commission be judicious in its analysis of
potential negative impacts of the proposed use, and what mitigation (if any) is appropriate in
response to those impacts.

____________________________________________________________
Analysis
Staff has completed a comprehensive review of the proposed church use, including hours of
operation, parking and traffic generation, noise regulations, and other potential impacts of the use.

Overall Impact of Use

The applicant’s narrative indicates that the church congregation only holds two meetings per
month, on Saturday evenings (in addition to 1-2 monthly meetings as-needed). Additionally, its
hours of operation are unique in that they take place during the late evening.

Staff Analysis - While certain elements of the church merit additional review for adherence to
noise regulations and established quiet hours, the average daily impact of the use is likely
less than that of the previous bank use, and of other uses recently proposed for the site.
Primary aspects of the use that could result in detrimental impacts on the surrounding area
(or users of the site) are hours of operation and parking/pedestrian safety.

Hours of Operation (noise and light trespass concerns)

The church’s unique hours of operation (8:00 p.m. – 12:15 a.m.) are identified in the applicant’s
written narrative as a potential negative impact to established noise ordinance regulations and
quiet-hours restrictions. The narrative also identifies vehicle headlights as a potential negative
impact. To mitigate these, the applicant has proposed to implement two solutions: (1) Minimizing
pre- and/or post-service outdoor conversations and gathering, and (2) requiring that all vehicles
parking along the northern boundary of the property back into parking stalls to avoid light trespass
to the adjacent single-family properties to the north.


                                                                                          Page 4 of 8
                                                             Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.


Staff Analysis – Staff agrees with the potential negative impacts identified by the applicant.
The applicant’s proposed mitigation techniques are found to be reasonable conditions that
will mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use, if they are strictly adhered to. Staff
recommends that the Commission formalize the applicant’s mitigations as conditions of
approval, thereby providing the city with enforcement recourse if conditions are not followed.


Parking and Traffic

City Code derives the minimum required parking stalls by utilizing the most recent version of the
International Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation manual. Church use requires, on
average, 0.50 parking stalls per attendee, or approximately 13 stalls per 1,000 square feet of
occupiable space.

Per ITE, a full congregation of church members would require 24 total parking stalls. As
summarized above, the applicant has identified 20-21 total parking stalls between the subject
property and the overflow stalls identified across the street. Because no site changes or
expansions are proposed as part of this application, city ordinance does not strictly require that
additional parking be added. City ordinance Chapter 19.80.020 (Required Parking) states, ‘Off-
street parking shall be provided according to standards noted in this chapter for all newly
constructed buildings and additional parking shall be provided for any structure or use that is
expanded.’

The applicant’s narrative states that many of the church’s congregation members consist of
families that share a vehicle when traveling to services. Additionally, the application includes a
clear map showing areas where it will prohibit its members from parking.

Staff Analysis - Because no new development or expansion is proposed, the existing parking
lot is considered a legal non-conforming element of the site when reviewed in accordance
with the proposed use. Just as the site is not required to bring landscaping, open space, trash
enclosure, buffer requirements, etc. up to current standard, the applicant is also not required
to provide additional parking unless deemed by the Planning Commission to create a
potential negative impact where the additional parking stalls reasonably mitigates that
impact.

To ensure that this parking deficit does not result in detrimental impacts on the surrounding
area, staff recommends that the Commission impose the following conditions:

   •   Provide signed, written consent from the owner of the property where overflow parking
       is proposed;
   •   Provide a pedestrian safety plan detailing how the church members utilizing overflow
       parking spaces will safely travel to the proposed church, using the public right-of-way
       and legal means of crossing the street. To the greatest extent possible, overflow stalls
       shall be utilized by members of church leadership to allow congregation members to
       park in the site parking lot;



                                                                                           Page 5 of 8
                                                              Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   Justify that existing visibility conditions (i.e. street lighting) is adequate for safe
       pedestrian circulation from overflow areas. Provide additional compliant street;
       lighting, if necessary, as approved by the city’s public works and engineering division;
   •   Communicate to all members of the congregation the parking plan, including areas
       where members are allowed to park, and areas where it is prohibited.




Noticing
Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The application was made pursuant to Title 19 of Cottonwood Heights City Code;
   3. Public noticing for this project was provided in accordance with local and state
       requirements;
   4. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
       in which it is to be located;
   5. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
       health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
       vicinity;
   6. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
       compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
   7. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
       to be located;
   8. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
       the conditions imposed;
   9. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
       assured;
   10. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
   11. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
       imposed on the applicant or owner;
   12. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
   13. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
   14. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
       and visual impacts;
   15. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   16. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
                                                                                              Page 6 of 8
                                                            Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                      Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   17. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   18. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.




Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-004, subject to the following conditions:

   1. The applicant shall minimize all pre- and post- gathering congregation, discussion, and
      socializing in outdoor areas. Noise levels shall continually be compliant with all applicable
      noise ordinance and quiet-hours regulations;
   2. The applicant shall require all vehicles in the northern site parking stalls to utilize back-in
      parking in order to minimize light trespass to adjacent property. Additionally, vehicles shall
      be promptly turned off when arriving at the site, and shall promptly exit stalls when leaving
      the site;
   3. The applicant shall provide signed, written consent from the property owner of the
      shopping center property where overflow parking has been proposed, subject to review and
      approval by city staff;
   4. The applicant shall provide a pedestrian safety plan detailing how the church members
      utilizing overflow parking spaces will safely travel to the proposed church, using the public
      right-of-way and legal means of crossing the street. To the greatest extent possible,
      overflow stalls shall be utilized by members of church leadership to allow congregation
      members to park in the site parking lot;
   5. The applicant shall provide a written plan and/or justification, subject to approval of the
      city’s Development Review Committee (DRC), that existing visibility conditions (i.e. street
      lighting) are adequate for safe pedestrian circulation from overflow areas. Provide
      additional compliant street;
   6. The applicant shall provide communication to all members of the congregation and users
      of the proposed use that includes the parking plan, including clear indication of areas
      where members are allowed to park, and areas where it is prohibited.


Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-004 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated April 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-004 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




                                                                                          Page 7 of 8
                               Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                         Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Attachments
  1. Project Narrative




                                                        Page 8 of 8
1654 E Fort Union Blvd. #9
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

03/31/2025

Mike Johnson
Community & Economic Development Director
Cottonwood Heights Community & Economic Development
2277 Bengal Blvd
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Subject: Conditional Use Permit Application Narrative

Dear Mr. Johnson:

The Beneficent Spiritist Center Uniao do Vegetal (UDV) is a non-profit religious organization
with general headquarters located in Brasilia, Brazil. Our local Salt Lake City congregation
was established in 2020 and is seeking to lease the property at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. on a
full-time basis, with the primary purpose to have a dedicated space to practice spiritual,
moral, intellectual, and behavioral development of individuals. To facilitate this, we hold
regular gatherings where we focus on family values, spiritual studies and behavior
improvement in all aspects of life. The gatherings occur routinely on the first and third
Saturdays of each month, and last roughly four (4) hours each, from 8:00PM to 12:15AM.
Periodically within any given month, one (1) or two (2) extra gatherings may be held either
on a weekday evening or on a Sunday at noon, which is at the discretion of the local
leadership.

Our congregation consists of forty-seven (47) members, of which six (6) have held key
leadership roles within the organization for decades in other parts of the U.S. and Brazil.
Overall, our group is comprised of mostly families, many of whom live in and around the
Cottonwood Heights area. Most families arrive at our gatherings together, and some
families carpool to reduce congestion and promote environmental sustainability. On
average, there are between roughly forty (40) and forty-five (45) members per gathering.

Upon approval of this plan, we intend on performing minor renovations to the interior of the
building only to create a more comfortable setting that more closely aligns with our needs.
The renovations will most likely include, but not necessarily be limited to, removing the
previous bank countertops and teller stations, replacing the flooring, and removing the
vault safe deposit storage. Our gatherings will occur solely indoors in the main central
open space and the ancillary office will be converted to a sleeping room for small children.
The bathrooms will remain as-is and the break room will continue as a space to serve
snacks and drinks. Drive-thru teller stations will be deactivated and all exterior building
components, including the landscaping, parking, lighting, and trash receptacles, will be
maintained in an as-is condition.

                                                                                              1
As a Christian-based group, we are committed to the highest respect for our neighbors,
and in full transparency, believe our operations may present two potential nuisances for
the residential neighbors directly to the north and west. The first is audible noise, and we
intend to mitigate this by minimizing any unnecessary conversation outdoors after a
gathering has ended. If it is required, a whisper audio level shall be maintained. The second
is vehicle headlights, and in an effort to minimize this, we shall require members who park
in the north parking spots to back their vehicles in upon arrival prior to the gathering, thus
pointing their headlights to the south and away from any of the neighbor’s windows upon
exiting the parking lot after a gathering. We shall also inform our members that we are
prohibited from parking on the street in the neighborhood directly to the west, nor in the
parking lot of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) directly to the east. We
believe we have sufficient parking on the site for our needs, and we have accounted for
potential additional overflow parking. If this occurs, the aforementioned key members of
the leadership will occupy the overflow parking spots, ensuring the nearby crosswalk is
used. Please see attached Parking and Circulation Plan for additional details related to
parking and circulation. Because of the difference in occupiable times in conjunction with
the neighboring LDS church, as well as many of the commercial businesses across Bengal
Blvd., we do not foresee an impact to their operations.

We feel that this movement is consistent with Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance
because, although we are not a traditional commercial business, we offer a discreet and
peaceful transition within the residential and commercial contexts of this area. Our
organization is committed to community engagement and encompasses an environmental
branch called the New Enchantment Association for the preservation of nature, as well as
a Department of Beneficence dedicated to assist those in need, whether members of our
church or not. We thank you kindly for your time and consideration of this request and we
look forward to building a stronger community together.


With Sincere Gratitude,




Bento Viana

Enclosures:
Owner Consent Form
Site Photographs
A101 – Parking & Circulation Plan
A102 – Landscape Plan



                                                                                            2
                                                               SITE LIGHT (TYP.)
                               8’-6”
                               TYP.




                      17’-0”
                                1      2   3    4    5    6   7    8   9            10   11




                      TYP.
                                                                                                              PROHIBITED
                                                                                                              PARKING
                                                    VEHICLE FLOW

TRASH
RECEPTACLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 3500 E
                                                                                          FIRE LANE
                                                                       FIRE LANE
                                                    12   13   14


                                                PEDESTRIAN FLOW

                                                                                                          MAIN
                                                                                                          ENTRANCE                                     15               BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                              OVERFLOW                                                              PEDESTRIAN FLOW
                                                                                                              PARKING                                                    16-20                                                 SMITH’S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS STATION

                                                                                                              PROHIBITED
                                                                                                              PARKING



                                                                                              FIRE LANE
                                                                        FIRE LANE




                                                         EMERGENCY
                                                         EGRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SMITH’S
                                       EGRESS                                  INGRESS                                                                                                                                         GROCERY

                                                BENGAL BLVD


              1     PARKING & CIRCULATION PLAN                                                                              2       OVERFLOW PARKING PLAN
             A101                                                                                                          A101


                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                      A     Issued for Cond.Use Permit App.     3/31/25    PARKING & CIRCULATION PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                               GRAVEL
                                                                                                               (EXISTING)




                         GRASS
                         (EXISTING)




                                                                                                            TREE
                                                                                                            (EXISTING)




                         TREE
                         (EXISTING)




                                                                                                            LOW DENSITY
                                                                                                            SHRUBS
                                                                                                            (EXISTING)




                                       1     LANDSCAPING PLAN
                                      A102


                                                                                       




                                                                                                                                                              
                       A Issued for Cond.Use Permit App.   3/31/25       LANDSCAPING PLAN
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                       A102
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                             
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
May 7, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
ZMA-25-002

Subject Property:
3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

Action Requested:
Zoning Map Amend.
Land Use Map Amend.

Applicant:
Adam Nash
(Land Development LLC)

Recommendation:
APPROVE

Context
Property Owner:
Land Development
LLC

Acreage:
0.95 acre




Request
The owner of 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd. has applied for amendments to the city’s General Plan Land
Use Map (future vision for general use type on a parcel) and Zoning Map (current codified standards
that regulate use and development of a parcel) for the property, as follows:

   •   Current land use designation – Residential Office
   •   Proposed land use designation – Residential Medium Density

   •   Current zoning designation – R-1-8 (Residential single-family)
   •   Proposed zoning designation – R-2-8 (Residential multi-family)
                           Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                 Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.


CURRENT LAND USE DESIGNATION

        Residential Office




PROPOSED LAND USE DESIGNATION

    Residential Medium Density




                                                    Page 2 of 8
                           Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                 Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION

 R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family)




PROPOSED ZONING DESIGNATION

 R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family)




                                                    Page 3 of 8
                                                             Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                                                   Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

Background
The applicant has previously requested this same land use and zoning amendment in 2022, as well
as a subsequent application to amend the property’s zoning from R-1-8 to Residential Office. Both
requests received recommendations of approval by staff and the Planning Commission, but were
denied by the City Council (copies of denial ordinances are attached).

After those previous applications being denied, the applicant then pursued administrative approval
of a 3-lot single-family subdivision on the property. The applicant submitted compliant plans, and
installed many of the required public improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) required as part of
the city’s subdivision process, but never recorded the final subdivision plat.

This new land use and zoning request is identical to the applicant’s first request in 2022. The full
application narrative is attached, but the general rationale provided for making this request and not
moving forward with the single-family subdivision is that, ‘A change has occurred in the housing
market. Affordable housing has become unheard of. The type of housing that can be built in this [R-
2-8] zone tend[s] to be less expensive than new Single Family Residential,’ and, ‘I have already
improved the property. It is suitable for R-2-8.’

While it would be subject to a separate administrative subdivision and application process, it is the
applicant’s intent to pursue the same 3-lot subdivision that has previously been improved, but to
construct three two-family dwellings (six total units) rather than three single-family dwellings.



            CURRENT APPROVED R-1-8 SUBDIVISION PLAN (final plat not recorded)




                                                                                          Page 4 of 8
                                                           Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                                                 Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

______________________________________________________________
Analysis & Findings

Background

The original Cottonwood Heights Land Use Map adopted in 2005 designated most properties along
Fort Union Blvd. as ‘Mixed Use,’ including properties east of 2700 E. In 2019, the City Council
amended the land use map for the eastern section of Fort Union so that the properties facing
neighborhood streets would be ‘Residential Low Density’ and properties facing Fort Union would
be either ‘Residential Office’ or ‘Residential Medium Density.’

This change was requested by the City Council because of concerns that the area would not be
compatible with mixed-use development and would be more suited to less intense land uses.
Office and Medium Density land uses were selected so that new investment in the area could still
be encouraged, but in a way that would not overwhelm the predominantly residential character of
the area. The subject property was changed to ‘Residential Office.’




                                                                                       Page 5 of 8
                                                              Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                                                    Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

Previous Applications

The project applicant previously submitted two separate applications (ZMA-22-001 and ZMA-22-
002) in an effort to rezone the property to R-2-8, and then to Residential Office. As stated
previously, both applications received positive recommendations from staff and the Planning
Commission, but were denied by the City Council. Denial ordinances for those applications state
the reason for denial as being, ‘it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to deny re-zoning the Property…notwithstanding the Planning Commission’s
recommendation of approval.’ Full copies of denial ordinances are attached for reference, with
both denial actions taking place in 2022.

Procedure

Zoning map amendments are legislative actions, meaning that the Planning Commission’s
authority is to take public comment, discuss the merits of the proposal, and make
recommendations to the City Council. The City Council is the final approval authority for this
application.

Chapter 19.90.010 of the Cottonwood Heights Municipal Code details the procedure for zoning
map amendments:

       19.90.10 Amendment Procedure.
       A. The city council may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
          of any zone or any regulation within any zone or any other provisions of the zoning
          ordinance. The city council may not make any amendment authorized by this
          section unless the amendment is proposed by the planning commission or was
          first submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. To become
          effective, zoning amendment applications which have received the positive
          recommendation of the planning commission must first receive the favorable vote
          of not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council.
       B. Zoning amendment applications which receive a recommendation of denial by the
          planning commission shall thereafter be considered by the city council…. The city
          council, after review of the recommendation by the planning commission, may affirm,
          reverse, alter or remand for further review and consideration any recommendations
          made by the planning commission.


Further, Chapter 19.90 establishes minimum timelines that require at least one year after Council
disapproval of a rezone and/or general plan amendment application before an application can be
made for the same zone classification again (19.90.050 / 19.90.100).

The subject application is compliant with the above codified requirements.

Staff Analysis

Staff finds that the request to amend the land use map from ‘Residential Office’ to ‘Residential
Medium Density’ and the zoning map from R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family) to R-2-8 (Residential
Multi-Family) is generally compatible with the city’s long-range vision and goals for the area for the
following reasons:


                                                                                           Page 6 of 8
                                                            Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                                                  Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

   •   Residential uses (single-family and two-family dwellings) are permitted uses in the R-2-8
       zone. Other than home occupations, no commercial or office uses are permitted in the
       proposed zone.
   •   The designated land use of the adjacent property to the east is also ‘Residential Medium
       Density.’ This property is in the R-1-8 zone but has two legal non-conforming two-family
       dwellings that were built in 1978.
   •   The RO (Residential Office) zone allows twin homes as a conditional use. A twin home
       development would be possible in both the RO zone and the R-2-8 zone.
   •   ‘Residential Medium Density’ was one of the land uses considered and approved for other
       properties along this segment of the Fort Union corridor.
   •   The future layout and lot development standards (lot size, setbacks, building heights, etc.)
       do not differ substantially from corresponding standards in the R-1-8 zone. In either the R-
       1-8 or R-2-8 zone, the property supports a maximum of three residential structures with
       similar development standards.
   •   Under the R-2-8 designation, the maximum anticipated number of dwelling units would be
       six (in three structures). Accessory dwelling units are prohibited in the R-2-8 zone but are
       permitted in the R-1-8 zone. The projected impact of three two-family structures is similar
       to the impact of three single-family structures, particularly since single-family homes could
       also be approved for accessory dwelling units (R-2-8 zoning prohibits the operation of
       ADUs)



Noticing
Notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting. Individual letters were sent
to property owners within 1000’ feet of the subject property, and a public notice sign was posted on
the property (at the time of posting, the property was inaccessible by public right-of-way due to
road closures as part of the Metropolitan Water pipeline reconstruction project).



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The proposed zoning designation is compatible with the surrounding developed area, and
      with the underlying land use designation of the subject property;
   3. The public will not be materially injured by the proposed amendment, and there is good
      cause for the amendment.



Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a recommendation of approval of project ZMA-25-002 to the City Council
(Note – two separate motions and votes will be required – one for the proposed land use map

                                                                                         Page 7 of 8
                                                            Planning Commission –May 7, 2025
                                                  Project ZMA-25-002 – 3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.

amendment, and one for the proposed zone map amendment. Both projects have the same project
reference number).
Approval
I move to recommend approval of project ZMA-25-002 to the City Council based on the findings and
recommendations listed in the staff report dated May 7, 2025…
   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to recommend denial of project ZMA-25-002 to the City Council based on the following
findings:
   •     List findings for denial…


ATTACHMENTS

   •     Applicant’s Narrative
   •     Previous Application Denial Ordinances




                                                                                      Page 8 of 8
                       Cottonwood Heights Rezone Application Narrative
                                  3526 E. Fort Union Blvd.
                               Parcel ID: 22-25-152-020-0000


Cottonwood Heights Planners and Commissioners:
My name is Adam Nash. I am the owner of the subject property. I have 40 years’ experience in
Land Use Permits and Land and Water Development.
This request was heard and denied by the City Council 3 years ago. Since that time, I
redeveloped the property from a derelict obsolete property into vacant land ready for a housing
development. Several things have changed in the city and in the housing market since then.
These changes warrant taking another look at the opportunity a change in zoning can provide.
The 1 acre+- lot which is the subject of this zoning request is bound on the west by a duplex and
to the east by two more duplexes with the next property east used for commercial purposes.
Further away on Ft Union there are many duplexes, twin homes, commercial buildings, public
utility buildings, transmission towers, ski shops, bars, a convenience store etc. Lots of
nonresidential uses along and close to Ft Union.
When the previous zoning request was denied, I was very surprised. A community meeting had
been held, and the Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation for approval. It
turned out that some residents opposed the request. They were opposed the rezone because the
R-2-8 zone would put increased density into the neighborhood and increase traffic.
I had no idea the CC would deny the request. I didn’t want to argue these points. I want to make
sure and voice my opinion now.
A density increase from 3 to 6 units is negligible. The Master Plan calls for Office/Residential
Medium use. A commercial use has much more likelihood of potential problems than R-2-8.
Traffic increase from 3-6 units is also negligible. It is also less than Single Family Residential
creates. (See the attached study) The traffic patterns from the new lots don’t even lead into the
local neighborhoods (unless they are visiting neighbors or going to church). Studies have shown
that additional traffic comes from growth in the whole valley.
A recent study done by or for Cottonwood Heights concludes that Fort Union Boulevard
continues to be one of the busiest roads within the City of Cottonwood Heights.

I’ve prepared the attached narrative to answer questions from the city. If there are other questions
that are not answered in the narrative, please give me a chance to address them. I don’t want
another denial because I failed to address concerns brought up by a couple of residents.


Thank you,


Adam Nash
•   How will your proposed amendment conform to what is envisioned for the future of the
    site or area, as expressed in the General Plan?
           The property is currently planned as Residential Office according to
           the Cottonwood Heights Land Use map. The amendment seeks to
           reclassify this property as Residential Medium Density. The lot sizes
           would be like adjacent existing land uses.

•   What level and type of development currently exists in the area? If approved, how would
    development of the property under the new zoning be consistent with the existing
    development?
           Residential currently exists in this area. The surrounding land uses are
           Residential Low Density to the south Residential Medium Density
           directly to the east and west of the property. If approved, the
           developed land would continue to be a residential use.

•   If the amendment is approved, how would subsequent development affect demand on
    public services and facilities such as utilities, emergency vehicles, etc.? Can you ensure
    that any negative impact will be mitigated? How?
           The development is 3 R-2-8 lots. Demand on public services and
           facilities would be very minimal. Utilities and improvements will
           follow LID standards and requirements. Homes would be built outside
           of any fault zone or sensitive land areas. There was an existing house
           and other structures on site that were removed to make way for
           redevelopment.

•   If approved, how would the amendment affect public health, safety, and/or general
    welfare?
           The land would be redeveloped into newer and more modern housing.
           Street improvements have been made on the south side of Fort Union
           Blvd where there were currently none. This has allowed for better
           passage along Fort Union Blvd for vehicles, bikers, and pedestrians.

•   Disregarding any specific development that might be envisioned for the property
    following any proposed rezoning, discuss all the various uses that would be allowed
    under the current zoning; how would the proposed uses fit better with the area than the
    uses that are allowed under the current zoning?
           The current zoning allows for residential on lots consisting of 8,000
           square-foot lots minimum This proposed rezone would see larger lots
           with twin home or townhouse type housing. The new housing would
           be much more affordable compared with other new housing in the
           area. Throughout the area there similar housing types, specifically
           duplexes, condominiums, twin homes and townhouses.

                                             2
           This seems to be a better use than residential/offices as expressed in
           the Residential Office Land Use as a Master Planned use.

•   What has changed since the zoning classification was established that makes this request
    amendment necessary?
           Cottonwood Heights City has created the Fort Union Area Master
           Plan and 2019 Affordable Housing Plan to augment the General Plan.
           This provides for more careful consideration to the development along
           Fort Union and for the city. This development would seek to improve
           the area along Fort Union and allow for additional housing in the area.

           R-2-8 is an appropriate zone along Ft Union. These lots have no
           interior access to the adjacent lots or neighborhoods. There is no
           traffic created by the new lots except to visit neighbors or go to
           church. The 3 lots would cause no additional traffic for neighborhood.

•   Disregarding any benefit to the specific property owner or developer, how will your
    proposal benefit the community as a whole? How will it outweigh any negative impacts
    of the change that is proposed?
           The proposed rezone will allow for new housing in the area where it
           might not be available in other parts of the city. The new residences
           would allow for additional tax revenue for the city. Improvements
           including sidewalk, cur and gutter, storm drain, and water lines have
           been upgraded along Fort Union have been installed and has improved
           all manners

•   How does the proposed amendment further the purposes of the current zoning ordinance
    as outlined in Title 19.02.020 (“Purpose of provisions”)?
           The proposed amendment would promote the welfare of surrounding
           residents and overall benefit the city by adding residential units as was
           planned for in the current zoning ordinance. Lot sizes in the proposed
           amendment would be larger than lots required in the current zoning
           ordinance.

•   Which of the following has arisen that is not properly addressed in the current zoning
    ordinance or general plan?
       o The provisions of the zoning ordinance should be brought into
         conformity with the General Plan with a Medium Density Use (of
         Residential/Office.



                                            3
o A change has occurred in the housing market. Affordable Housing has
  become unheard of. The type of housing that can be built in this zone
  tend to be less expensive than new Single Family Residential.
o I have already improved the property. It is suitable for R-2-8.


CONCLUSION: R-2-8 CREATES LESS EXPENSIVE HOUSING THAN SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND WOULD BE MUCH MORE APPROPRIATE.




                              4
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
May 7, 2025


Request
Due to concerns regarding the lack of a codified definition for a live-work use type, the City Council
voted on February 18, 2025 to impose a moratorium on all live/work applications for up to 180
days. This only applies to applications submitted after the moratorium was enacted.

While the moratorium is in place, staff has been instructed to develop a definition for live/work
uses for consideration and possible codification.

Background & Overview
Concerns regarding a proposed live-work development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. (subsequently
withdrawn) led to the issuance of a moratorium on new live-work land use applications in the city.
Staff researched various definitions and regulatory practices from the Planner’s Dictionary, Urban
Land Institute, other cities in Utah and around the country to create the proposed definition
attached to this memo.

Staff also researched potential alternatives to codifying a definition, which are also included in the
attachment. The Commission discussed the proposed amendment at its April 2025 Commission
meeting and provided input to staff. Based on that input, the following recommended amendments
have been prepared for Commission discussion and feedback:

RECOMMENDED NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

   •   Eliminate the following codified conditional uses from the Neighborhood
       Commercial zone:
           o Bed and Breakfast
           o Home occupations
           o Home pre-schools
           o Planned unit development
           o Residential facilities for elderly persons
           o Live/Work spaces

   •   Amend the following existing uses:
         o Replace ‘Mixed residential housing’ with ‘Neighborhood Mixed Use.’
         o Add an allowance for residential housing, but only as a component of a
            Neighborhood Mixed Use development application

   •   Establish a definition and development standards for ‘Neighborhood Mixed Use.’
          o Draft definition – ‘A single building containing more than one type of land
              use, at least one of which is residential, or a single development of more
              than one building and use, one of which is residential, where the different
                                                  Planning Commission Memo – ZTA-23-005
                                                                         January 3, 2024

         types of land uses are in close proximity, planned as a unified
         complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the use of shared
         vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.’
       o Draft standards:
             All NC development standards pertaining to building height,
                setbacks, landscaping, coverage, etc. shall apply
             The mix of uses shall be consistent with the permitted and conditional
                uses listed in the Neighborhood Commercial chapter
             The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood Mixed Use project
                shall constitute a minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the
                entire unit or project square footage. At least 50% of the unit or
                project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way shall be
                dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.

•   While not directly a result of the moratorium, staff also recommends the following
    Neighborhood Commercial ordinance updates:
       o Modification of minimum lot size standards:
               Current – minimum lot size of 7,000 square feet, minimum lot width of
                  60’, minimum lot depth of 90’
               Recommended – No minimum lot size or dimensional requirements,
                  provided that all applicable development requirements (setbacks,
                  coverage, parking, landscaping, etc.) are met
       o Modification of height requirements:
               Current – Maximum height of two stories or 35’, whichever is less
               Recommended – Maximum height of 35’ (remove reference to
                  maximum stories, focus on maximum building height)
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, April 16, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Work Room

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                      Shelton, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Mike Smith,
                      Commissioner Garry Barnes (via Zoom)

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson;
                      Planner III, Ian Harris; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City
                      Recorder, Cienna Brummel; System Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Present:       Kevin Witzenman, James Carroll

WORK SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:01 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Anderson reviewed the Business Session Agenda and indicated that Item 3.1 was a public
hearing to discuss potential action on a Conditional Use Permit application. Item 3.2 was a Staff-
initiated Zoning Text Amendment to codify a definition for the Live/Work Land Use type. Those
items would be followed by the Consent Agenda.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson updated the Planning
Commission on staffing changes. Ian Harris was promoted to Planner III and Maverick Yeh to
Planner II. A new Community Development Coordinator was hired to manage permits at the front
counter. She will begin work on May 5, 2025.

Planner III, Ian Harris reviewed Project CUP-25-003, an application for a Conditional Use Permit
to operate a compounding pharmacy (Cottonwood Compounding) within an existing building. The
property is located at 7076 South Highland Drive in the Regional Commercial (“CR”) Zone. The
pharmacy’s hours of operation will be 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The
business currently operates at a property north of the subject property and has approximately 15
employees, with 20 to 30 in-person customers per day. Most orders are fulfilled via mail. No site
changes were planned, but an application to remodel the façade will be considered by the
Architectural Review Commission (“ARC”) at its next meeting. The Applicant had also applied
for a Building Permit for interior renovations. The suite was previously a salon, so extensive
interior renovations are required.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                       1
The Zoning Map, street view, and Site Plan of the subject property were reviewed. Mr. Harris
reported that the compounding pharmacy will be located on the first floor, with entry via the north
side of the property. Chair Anderson asked for clarification on the property location, as the Staff
Report provided an address on Pine Creek Lane. Mr. Harris stated that the Staff Report was
incorrect. The subject property is located at 7076 S. Highland Drive.

Mr. Harris reviewed the Staff Analysis. Drugstores are listed as a Conditional Use in the CR Zone,
and Staff determined that a compounding pharmacy is analogous to a drugstore in terms of Land
Use. Other pharmacies like Walgreens, CVS, and Cottonwood Compounding Pharmacy’s current
location operate in the CR Zone. Per Utah State Code, a Conditional Use is entitled to approval
unless reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate any negative impacts.

Cottonwood Heights City Code derives minimum parking requirements by utilizing the most
recent version of the International Transportation Engineers Parking Generation Manual. At
approximately 3,100 square feet, the use requires a total of eight parking stalls. The property
contains 30 total stalls for both businesses. As such, Staff found the application to be compliant
with minimum parking requirements. Notices were posted and mailed to property owners within
300 feet of the subject property 10 days in advance of the public meeting. No public comments
were received. Staff found the application compliant with all relevant sections of City Code and
recommended approval with no additional conditions beyond those listed in the Staff Report.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Harris confirmed that there are 30 total
parking stalls on the property. The business has approximately 15 total employees but they do not
all work at the same time. Commissioner Mills wanted to ensure there would be enough parking
stalls for both the pharmacy and Pilates studio. Chair Anderson stated that the pharmacy will need
less parking than the salon that previously occupied the space. Mr. Harris confirmed that fewer
spaces are required. The Applicant would speak to how many employees would be onsite and
address any concerns with parking during the Business Meeting.

Chair Anderson asked what specifically the ARC would review. Mr. Harris reported that they
would review the application for a Certificate of Design Compliance regarding façade renovations.
Mr. Johnson stated that the applicant is making architectural improvements to the building, but no
site changes are planned. Mr. Harris added that the ARC will primarily review materials and
colors.

In response to a question from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Johnson confirmed that the application
required Planning Commission approval because it is a Conditional Use in the CR Zone. The
business is currently operating in the same area, but conditional uses are considered on a site-by-
site basis and no similar use was previously established on the site.

Commissioner Smith stated that if there will not be a lot of in-person business, customers should
have little impact on parking. He asked what impact it would have if more customers began picking
up their prescriptions. Mr. Johnson clarified that the parking requirements are based on square
footage and would not change based on that information. If the building were expanded or the
Site Plan modified, it would require additional Planning Commission approval.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                        2
Mr. Johnson reviewed the Staff Report regarding Item 3.2 and indicated that the City Council had
issued a moratorium on the Live/Work Land Use type within the Neighborhood Commercial
(“NC”) Zoning District and directed Staff to prepare a definition of “Live/Work Space.” As the
Planning Commission discovered during a Land Use application for Bengal Boulevard, the City
Code did not include that definition. The City had 180 days to either amend the City Code or lift
the moratorium, but Mr. Johnson reported that there was ample time to provide the Commission
with more information if required. As it was a legislative action item, the Commission would be
voting on a recommendation to the City Council.

Staff review of definitions used by other cities indicated that there was no one clear definition for
Live/Work Spaces. In highly urban areas, the focus is more on commercial space. Some cities
define minimum square footage for each use or limit the number of residential units per square
foot of commercial space. Previous discussions with the Commission indicated that their primary
concern was ensuring enough commercial presence and a well-defined balance between
commercial and residential uses. In drafting the definition, Staff considered that concern, in
addition to ease of administration.

If adopted, the following definition would be added to the Definitions section of Title 19 and would
apply to any zone the Use is added to in the future.

19.04.1435 Live/Work Space:

       A living unit used simultaneously for both residential occupancy and commercial activity
       by the same occupant(s). The commercial portion of the Live/Work Space shall constitute
       a minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit. At least 50% of the unit’s
       frontage at ground level along the public right of way shall be dedicated to the commercial
       portion of the space. Any commercial use within a live/work unit must be included as a
       permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone.

Alternatives for consideration included further restricting the Use by limiting square footage,
restricting commercial uses, replacing Live/Work with Mixed Use, and striking it as an allowed
use in the NC Zone.

In response to a question from Commissioner Shelton, it was clarified that the Live/Work Use is
only allowed in the NC Zone. An applicant used live/work space to meet the requirement for a
mix of uses on an application in the Mixed Use (“MU”) Zone, but it is not a specifically allowed
use in that zone. The new definition would apply to any future Live/Work Space, including in
other zones. The Zoning Map and existing NC Zones were reviewed, and Mr. Harris reported
that the General Plan indicates some additional areas that could be rezoned to NC or MU in the
future.

Commissioner Steinman stated that the City has master-planned goals to create neighborhood
nodes that include a Live/Work component, and the Planning Commission needed to be conscious
of that goal. The commercial aspect was very important. The requirement he suggested for the
previous applicant was specifically for townhome units, but he likes the idea of requiring a



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                          3
percentage of commercial space because it would allow the Use to be a gateway to residential
communities.

Chair Anderson asked if “commercial” was defined in City Code. That question was raised when
they reviewed the application for the building beside Wells Fargo because the term can be defined
differently. Mr. Harris stated that different commercial uses are defined, but not specifically what
“commercial” means. Mr. Johnson reported that the proposed Live/Work definition states that the
commercial element must be one of the non-residential uses allowed in the zone. For example,
the NC Zone would allow retail, office, medical, or dental to be mixed with residential.

Commissioner Barnes was pleased a definition of the Live/Work concept would be added and
asked how frequently the Use has come before the Planning Commission. Mr. Johnson recalled
three projects that proposed the Use, two in the MU Zone and one in the NC Zone.

Commissioner Mills agreed with Commissioner Steinman as there is a market for high-density
products that have light commercial uses. He expressed concern about Neighborhood Commercial
areas being populated with developments that are primarily housing with a small home workspace
component. He did not want to be too proscriptive, but he was hesitant to allow the zone to be
used primarily as a housing product. He also believed the issue should addressed through the lens
of form-based code. Especially along Fort Union Boulevard, they should phrase the Ordinance in
a way that incentivizes the specific looks and uses they would like to see in the area. If Staff
believed the current definition would encourage that goal, he was in favor of it.

Mr. Johnson stated that the Council is slowly moving form-based code forward. If codified, it
would cover the Land Use on Fort Union Boulevard. The Live/Work Space definition would then
be used in other places like the Bengal Boulevard corridor and some areas of Highland Drive. The
proposed requirement that 50% of the ground level be commercial would lend to the look
envisioned by form-based code. Live/Work means that the commercial and residential spaces are
used by one occupant who lives and works there.

Commissioner Steinman stated that Millcreek, Murray, Midvale, and South Salt Lake City have
implemented Live/Work uses. For example, at 900 South and 900 East (“9th and 9th) there are
condominiums above and restaurants below. He does not want the community to turn into 9th and
9th or Sugarhouse, but a lot of Main Street American has commercial space below and a family
living above who are not related to the business owner. He was unsure if they should restrict that.
The intent of the neighborhood nodes is to have a bikeable, walkable community where residents
have access to ice cream shops, barbers, doctors, etc. Mr. Johnson stated that it would be easier to
administer if Staff did not have to verify whether a person both lived and worked there.

Commissioner Shelton believed the mechanism was a problem, as was shown in the last
application. Conditional Uses are widely misunderstood, and he sees the way cities have tried to
expand them to encompass both use and development standards as problematic. The Text
Amendment would say that Live/Work is a permitted Conditional Use and also determine both
what the use would look like and its impact. He believes that square footage requirements are
development standards, not a Use. He then read the Utah League of Cities and Towns Power and
Duties Handbook for Municipal Officers section on Conditional Uses.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                         4
Commissioner Shelton believed that Conditional Uses are not a good practice, and including
development standards adds additional complications. There are several overlapping Conditional
Uses in the NC Zone that he believes are equally problematic. Home offices are allowed as a
Conditional Use, but there is not a clear definition of what a home office is. If they do not want
people to live in the units, it should not be permitted. If they are permitted to live there and can
work there as well, he was not in support of applying additional restrictions.

Chair Anderson stated that if it is an allowed use, Live/Work needs to be defined, regardless of
which zones it is allowed in. However, her opinion was that it should be removed as a Conditional
Use.

Commissioner Steinman stated that Conditional Uses are not preferred but they do exist in the
zone. He agreed with Chair Anderson that Live/Work either needs to be defined or eliminated.
He believes the questions they need to ask are about the positive and negative impacts on the NC
Zone and what could prompt negative impacts. Currently, Live/Work is only allowed in the NC
Zone, but other zones allow a live/work component as part of the product. He agreed that
Conditional Uses are an issue. However, if multi-family were a Use in the NC zone, certain
minimum requirements would need to be met to qualify under that Use.

The list of Conditional Uses allowed in the NC Zone was reviewed. Commissioner Shelton stated
that it would be difficult to deny, for example, a Home Occupation in the zone if it did not have a
strong detrimental impact. Commissioner Steinman stated that they would still need to meet
certain requirements. Commissioner Shelton disagreed and stated that townhomes or buildings
that look like townhomes could be built in the zone. Mr. Johnson confirmed that someone could
construct a building that looks like townhomes if it met the building standards, and the developer
could state that they were going to use the building for Home Occupations to try to circumvent the
intent of the Zone. In practice, it means that the residential portion of a development could be used
for a Home Occupation, which is defined elsewhere in the Ordinance.

Mr. Johnson suggested that if the Planning Commission wanted Live/Work space to be a guiding
Land Use type within the NC Zone, they could recommend to the City Council that current
Conditional Uses which could potentially be used as loopholes be eliminated.

Commissioner Steinman noted that if every use is conditional, it creates too many loopholes. After
they either eliminate or define the Live/Work use, they should next consider what should be an
approved use for the NC Zone. He asked if any other zone listed every Use as conditional.
Mr. Johnson stated that Residential Office only allows residential as a Permitted Use and all
commercial Uses are conditional.

Commissioner Mills stated that the idea of having a business on the first floor and residential above
it has been implemented for hundreds of years. If they intended to limit the first floor to
commercial purposes, perhaps they should consider treating the Uses separately. It is hard for
business owners to find suitable commercial space, and finding suitable living space above it
would be even harder.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                          5
Mr. Johnson stated that Staff will work to consolidate the uses that contain residential elements or
the potential for loopholes. To Commissioner Shelton’s point, they could broaden the definition
of Live/Work and address restrictions regarding floor area and public street frontage as
development standards. He agreed with the Commissioners’ comments about permitted versus
conditional uses. They could consider modifying that in the future, but only a small portion of the
City is in the NC Zone. Mr. Harris added that they have discussed cleaning up the Uses for other
zones as well, as City Code still includes definitions for archaic uses.

Chair Anderson stated that the definition of Live/Work needs to align with the definition of
Neighborhood Commercial, which was designed to be a transitional zone between residential and
commercial uses.

Commissioner Steinman asked if the NC Zone could be converted to form-based code. Mr.
Johnson stated that the expansion of form-based code may occur following initial adoption of the
code. A separate form district will need to be created. The Council’s discussion on form-based
code was briefly reviewed.

The changes discussed earlier in the meeting were restated. Mr. Johnson reported that Staff would
make the suggested changes and bring the Text Amendment back for further discussion at the
May 7, 2025 Work Session.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Steinman moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 6:00 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                         6
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                   Wednesday, April 16, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Mills, Commissioner Mike Smith,
                       Commissioner Gary Barnes (via Zoom)

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson;
                       Planner III, Ian Harris; City Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City
                       Recorder, Cienna Brummel; System Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Present:        Kevin Witzenman, James Carroll

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:04 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project CUP-25-003 – A Public Hearing and Potential Action on a Request by
                 James Carroll on Behalf of Cottonwood Compounding for a Conditional Use
                 Permit to Operate a Compounding Pharmacy at 7076 South Highland Drive.

Planner III, Ian Harris presented an abbreviated version of the Staff Report and stated that the
application was discussed in more detail during the Work Session. The Zoning Map, street-view
images, and proposed floor plan were displayed. Mr. Harris reported that the pharmacy will
operate from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and have 15 total employees. Staff
found that a compounding pharmacy is analogous to a drugstore, which is a Conditional Use in
the zone. As a Conditional Use, the application was entitled to approval unless reasonable
conditions cannot be imposed to mitigate the negative impacts of the Use. Eight parking stalls
would be required, and the property contains 30 stalls. The property owner would be responsible



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                     7
for maintaining the stalls. Staff found that a traffic study was not necessary as the Use is less
impactful than the salon that previously occupied the property. Notices were sent to property
owners within 300 feet of the subject property, and no comments were received. Staff
recommended approval with no additional conditions.

The Applicant, Kevin Witzenman, stated that Cottonwood Compounding Pharmacy has been in
operation at 7050 Highland Drive for approximately five years, but the business has outgrown the
space. In response to a question from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Witzenman stated that they
compound medications for people with allergies, as well as hormone replacement therapy and
peptides.

Commissioner Mills asked about potential problems regarding the shared parking with the Pilates
studio. Mr. Witzenman stated that they are in discussions with a neighboring property owner to
use their stalls for overflow parking. If it becomes a problem, they will require employees to park
elsewhere. The Pilates studio never uses more than 10 spaces.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Shelton moved to APPROVE Project CUP-25-003 based on the following:

Findings:

       1.      A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements.

       2.      The application was made pursuant to Title 19 of Cottonwood Heights City Code.

       3.      Public noticing for this project was provided in accordance with local and state
               requirements.

       4.      That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the
               zoning district in which it is to be located.

       5.      That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
               detrimental to the health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons
               residing or working in the vicinity.

       6.      That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and
               will be compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the
               City.

       7.      That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district
               in which it is to be located.

       8.      That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will
               be abated by the conditions imposed.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                        8
      9.     That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city
             will be assured.

      10.    That the use will comply with the City’s General Plan.

      11.    That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will
             be imposed on the applicant or owner.

      12.    That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly
             designed.

      13.    That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed
             development.

      14.    That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from
             light, noise and visual impacts.

      15.    That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
             surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan,
             subdivision ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards.

      16.    That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding
             uses will be installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances.

      17.    That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental
             features of the property.

      18.    That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses

Commissioner Steinman seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Steinman-Yes;
Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

      3.2    Project ZTA-25-001 – A Public Hearing and Potential Action on a Staff-
             Initiated Zoning Text Amendment to Codify a Definition for the Live/work
             Land Use Type in City Code.

Commissioner Smith moved to CONTINUE Project ZTA-25-001 to the May 7, 2025, Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner
Barnes-Yes;    Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                                    9
4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from March 5, 2025.

Commissioner Steinman moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda. Commissioner Shelton
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Mills moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Shelton
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at approximately 6:16 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                           10
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, April 16, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 04/16/25                               11
