COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA
June 4, 2025
Notice is hereby given that the Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission will convene on Wednesday, June 4,
2025, at Cottonwood Heights City Hall (2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121) for its Work
Session and Business Session meetings.

   1. Work Session – 5:00 p.m. – City Council Work Room
   2. Business Session – 6:00 p.m. – City Council Chambers

Both sessions will also be broadcast electronically on the city’s YouTube channel at
https://www.youtube.com/@CottonwoodHeights/streams.
Please see the reverse side of this agenda for instructions on how to make public comment.

5:00 p.m. Work Session
       1.0 Review Business Session Agenda
       The commission will review and discuss agenda items.

       2.0 Adjourn

6:00 p.m. Business Session
       1.0 Welcome and Acknowledgements
              1.1 Ex parte communications or conflicts of interest to disclose

       2.0 General Public Comment
       This is an opportunity for individuals to make general public comments that do not relate to any projects
       scheduled for public hearing under the “Business Items” section of this agenda. Please see the Public
       Comment Policy on the reverse side of this agenda for more information.

       3.0 Business Items
              3.1 Project CUP-25-004
              A public hearing and potential action on a request by Bento Viana on behalf of União do Vegetal
              Church (UDV) for a conditional use permit to operate a church at a former Wells Fargo branch at
              3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

               3.2 Project ZTA-25-001
               A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on a city-initiated Zoning Text
               Amendment to modify language within Chapter 19.37 NC – Neighborhood Commercial.

               3.3 Project GPA-25-002 - Moderate Income Housing Report
               A public hearing and potential recommendation to City Council on the draft Moderate Income
               Housing Report, as required by Utah State Code.

       4.0 Consent Agenda
              4.1 Approval of May 7, 2025 Planning Commission Minutes

       5.0 Adjourn
       Next Planning Commission Meeting: July 2, 2025
Public Comment
Individuals may provide public comment verbally or via writing.

Verbal comments are accepted in person at the 6:00 p.m. Business Session, but not at the 5:00 p.m. Work
Session. At the Business Session, public comment may be given during two intervals:
   1. General Public Comment Period – An opportunity for general comments not relating to specific projects on
       the meeting agenda.
   2. Specific Project Public Hearings – An opportunity for comments relating to specific projects on the meeting
       agenda which were noticed as public hearings.

Please note that verbal comments must be provided by attending the meetings in-person. Verbal comments
cannot be provided via the electronic broadcast of planning commission meetings on the city’s YouTube channel.

Verbal comment periods are an opportunity for individuals to share comments as they see fit but are not an
opportunity for “question and answer” dialogue. Questions should be directed to city staff at
planning@ch.utah.gov. Verbal comments provided during the public comment period will be limited to three
minutes per individual, or five minutes per a spokesperson who has been asked by a group that is present to
summarize their concerns.

Alternatively, written comments may be submitted to staff via email at planning@ch.utah.gov. For written
comments to be entered into the record and distributed to the planning commission prior to the meeting, they
must be submitted to staff by 12:00 p.m. MST on Tuesday, June 3, 2025, the day prior to the meeting.
Comments received after this deadline will be distributed to the planning commission after the meeting.

Meeting Procedures
Items will generally be considered in the following order: 1. Chair introduction of item, 2. Staff presentation, 3.
Applicant presentation, if applicable, 4. Chair opens public hearing, if applicable, 5. Chair closes public hearing, if
applicable, 6. Planning commission deliberation, 7. Planning commission motion and vote on item.

Applications may be tabled if additional information is needed in order to act on the item; or if the planning
commission feels there are unresolved issues that may need further attention before the commission is ready
to make a motion. No agenda item will begin after 9:00 pm without a unanimous vote of the commission. The
commission may carry over agenda items, scheduled late in the evening and not heard, to the next regularly
scheduled meeting.

Notice of Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations or
assistance during this meeting shall notify the City Recorder at (801) 944-7015 at least 24 hours prior to the
meeting. TDD number is (801) 270-2425 or call Relay Utah at #711.

Confirmation of Public Notice
On Friday, May 30, 2025, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Cottonwood Heights City Offices. The agenda was also posted on the City’s website at
www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov and the Utah public notice website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

DATED THIS 30TH DAY OF MAY, ATTEST: TIFFANY JANZEN, CITY RECORDER
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO

June 4, 2025 – CUP-25-004 Updated Parking Plan

Updated Parking Plan Submittal
At its May 7, 2025 Planning Commission meeting, the Commission voted to table action the above-
referenced conditional use application due to last-minute changes to the proposed parking plan,
directing the applicant to work with staff to submit a revised parking plan for consideration in June.
As detailed in the original staff report for this application (attached), city code requires a minimum
of 0.5 parking stalls per attendee for a religious/church use. At 47 total attendees, this results in 24
total parking stalls. In lieu of the previously proposed use of overflow parking across the street, the
applicant has submitted a revised proposal that will accommodate a total of 24 parking stalls on
the subject property, primarily by converting site traffic-flow to one-way circulation and striping 6
new parallel parking stalls along the eastern site access. The revised parking plan is as follows:
                                                         Planning Commission Memo – CUP-25-004
                                                                                    June 4, 2025


Staff Analysis
The revised parking plan has been reviewed by Community & Economic Development, Engineering,
and Fire Department staff, and is found to be an acceptable means of providing additional on-site
parking. The following are findings from staff review:

   •   The updated plan provides on-site parking compliant with minimum parking requirements
       of the city’s off-street parking ordinance;
   •   Per city ordinance, one ADA stall is required for every 25 stalls on site. As such, the one ADA
       stall shown in the applicant’s plan (and currently existing on site) is adequate;
   •   Parellel parking stalls shall be painted with a minimum dimension of 9’ in width and 20’ in
       depth, per city ordinance;
   •   One-way drive aisle width shall be at least 12’ in width to allow for proper emergency
       vehicle circulation. The existing drive aisle is approximately 25’ wide. Installation of a 9’
       parallel parking stalls leaves a remainder of 16’ for aisle width;
   •   The modified circulation plan converting the site into one-way traffic flow does not present
       any significant safety issues or concerns, although proper striping and signage should be
       installed to clearly signify the one-way traffic flow on site;
   •   Fire lane paint/striping shall be revised on site to reflect the updated parking plan, subject
       to review and inspection by the fire department;



Recommendations and Findings
Based on the revised parking and circulation plan, staff recommends APPROVAL of project CUP-
25-004, based on the findings published in the original staff report dated May 7, 2025, as well as
the findings published in this supplemental memo), and subject to the following recommended
conditions of approval:

    1. The applicant shall minimize all pre- and post- gathering congregation, discussion, and
       socializing in outdoor areas. Noise levels shall continually be compliant with all applicable
       noise ordinance and quiet-hours regulations;
    2. The applicant shall require all vehicles in the northern site parking stalls to utilize back-in
       parking in order to minimize light trespass to adjacent property. Additionally, vehicles shall
       be promptly turned off when arriving at the site, and shall promptly exit stalls when leaving
       the site;
    3. The applicant shall install adequate striping, painting, and signage to clearly convey the
       one-way site circulation. Signage/striping configuration shall be subject to approval by
       applicable members of the city’s Development Review Committee, and shall be required
       prior to commencement of any site or building renovation work on the property;
    4. The applicant shall provide a written plan and/or justification, subject to approval of the
       city’s Development Review Committee (DRC), that existing visibility conditions (i.e. street
       lighting) are adequate for safe pedestrian circulation;
    5. The applicant shall provide communication to all members of the congregation and users
       of the proposed use that includes the parking plan, including clear indication of areas
       where members are allowed to park, and areas where it is prohibited.
                                                        Planning Commission Memo – CUP-25-004
                                                                                   June 4, 2025




Model Motions
Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-004 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff memo dated June 4, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-004 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




Attachments
   1. Original Staff Report (May 7, 2025)
   2. Supplemental Staff Memo (May 7, 2025)
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF REPORT
May 7, 2025

Summary
Project Number:
CUP-25-004

Subject Property:
3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Action Requested:
Conditional Use Approval to
operate a church

Applicant:
Bento Viana; Beneficent
Spiritist Center Uniao do
Vegetal

Recommendation:
APPROVE




                              Satellite view of subject property



Context
Property Owner:
Nathan Anderson
SAW Family Partners, LLC

Acreage:
0.48 acres




                                            Street View




                                                                   Page 1 of 8
                                                               Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                         Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.




Request and Background
The applicant is requesting approval to operate a church use within the existing building on the
subject property (formerly a Wells Fargo bank branch). The applicant is not proposing any
alterations to the existing site or building, although the existing drive-through will not be utilized as
such. Minor internal modifications are proposed to retrofit the internal space to suit the needs of
the proposed church use.

According to the applicant’s narrative, the proposed church use is for a congregation of the
formally recognized non-profit religious organization known as The Beneficent Spiritist Center
Uniao do Vegetal (UDV). The proposed church will hold regular gatherings on the first and third
Saturday of each month, with services lasting from 8:00 p.m. – 12:15 a.m. One or two additional
gatherings may be held, at the operator’s discretion, typically on weekday evenings or Sundays at
noon. The congregation consists of 47 total members, with 40-45 members per gathering. The
applicant’s narrative states that many members of the congregation live nearby, and that most of
the congregation consists of families that carpool to gatherings. The existing site includes a total of
15 parking stalls, plus an additional 5 off-site stalls utilized across the street (and the potential for
an additional parking space or two underneath the existing bank drive-through canopy).

The property is in the Neighborhood Commercial (NC) zone, which allows churches as a
Conditional Use (the adjacent property to the east is currently a church operated by The Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. As stated above, the applicant is not proposing any significant
site modifications or exterior changes to the building. No changes to landscaping, site lighting,
trash receptacles, driveways, etc. are proposed. Additionally, the applicant is proposing to utilize
                                                                                           Page 2 of 8
                                                           Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                     Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

multiple parking stalls within the commercial development across Bengal Boulevard to the south
to accommodate overflow parking needs for members of the church’s leadership. The applicant’s
narrative also includes a parking diagram that shows it will restrict church members from parking
on the adjacent public right-of-way (Oak Shadow Circle) and the adjacent privately owned church
property’s parking lot.




Conditional Use Permit Procedure and Authority
The Planning Commission is the approval authority for administrative applications, including the
conditional use approval requested by this project. The details of such authority are included
below:

       Following any public hearing, the planning commission shall consider the application in a
       public meeting. The staff’s written recommendation shall be considered, among other
       factors. The planning commission may either approve the proposed conditional use;
       approve the proposed conditional use subject to specific modifications or conditions;
       postpone decision pending consideration of additional information to be submitted by the
       applicant; or deny the proposed conditional use. (19.84.080)


                                                                                       Page 3 of 8
                                                             Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

       A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be
       imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
       accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal or the
       imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
       conditional use may be denied. (19.84.020)



Utah Religious Land Use Act
As a federally recognized non-profit religious organization, the proposed church use requires the
city to adhere to the Utah Religious Land Use Act (URLUA) (Utah Code Ann. 63L-5-101 et seq). This
Act provides that government may not impose or implement a land use regulation in a manner that
imposes a substantial burden on a person’s free exercise of religion unless the burden (a) is in
furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (b) is the least restrictive means of
furthering that compelling government interest. Given that the site is existing, and no modifications
are proposed, staff recommends that the Planning Commission be judicious in its analysis of
potential negative impacts of the proposed use, and what mitigation (if any) is appropriate in
response to those impacts.

____________________________________________________________
Analysis
Staff has completed a comprehensive review of the proposed church use, including hours of
operation, parking and traffic generation, noise regulations, and other potential impacts of the use.

Overall Impact of Use

The applicant’s narrative indicates that the church congregation only holds two meetings per
month, on Saturday evenings (in addition to 1-2 monthly meetings as-needed). Additionally, its
hours of operation are unique in that they take place during the late evening.

Staff Analysis - While certain elements of the church merit additional review for adherence to
noise regulations and established quiet hours, the average daily impact of the use is likely
less than that of the previous bank use, and of other uses recently proposed for the site.
Primary aspects of the use that could result in detrimental impacts on the surrounding area
(or users of the site) are hours of operation and parking/pedestrian safety.

Hours of Operation (noise and light trespass concerns)

The church’s unique hours of operation (8:00 p.m. – 12:15 a.m.) are identified in the applicant’s
written narrative as a potential negative impact to established noise ordinance regulations and
quiet-hours restrictions. The narrative also identifies vehicle headlights as a potential negative
impact. To mitigate these, the applicant has proposed to implement two solutions: (1) Minimizing
pre- and/or post-service outdoor conversations and gathering, and (2) requiring that all vehicles
parking along the northern boundary of the property back into parking stalls to avoid light trespass
to the adjacent single-family properties to the north.


                                                                                          Page 4 of 8
                                                             Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                       Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.


Staff Analysis – Staff agrees with the potential negative impacts identified by the applicant.
The applicant’s proposed mitigation techniques are found to be reasonable conditions that
will mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use, if they are strictly adhered to. Staff
recommends that the Commission formalize the applicant’s mitigations as conditions of
approval, thereby providing the city with enforcement recourse if conditions are not followed.


Parking and Traffic

City Code derives the minimum required parking stalls by utilizing the most recent version of the
International Transportation Engineers (ITE) Parking Generation manual. Church use requires, on
average, 0.50 parking stalls per attendee, or approximately 13 stalls per 1,000 square feet of
occupiable space.

Per ITE, a full congregation of church members would require 24 total parking stalls. As
summarized above, the applicant has identified 20-21 total parking stalls between the subject
property and the overflow stalls identified across the street. Because no site changes or
expansions are proposed as part of this application, city ordinance does not strictly require that
additional parking be added. City ordinance Chapter 19.80.020 (Required Parking) states, ‘Off-
street parking shall be provided according to standards noted in this chapter for all newly
constructed buildings and additional parking shall be provided for any structure or use that is
expanded.’

The applicant’s narrative states that many of the church’s congregation members consist of
families that share a vehicle when traveling to services. Additionally, the application includes a
clear map showing areas where it will prohibit its members from parking.

Staff Analysis - Because no new development or expansion is proposed, the existing parking
lot is considered a legal non-conforming element of the site when reviewed in accordance
with the proposed use. Just as the site is not required to bring landscaping, open space, trash
enclosure, buffer requirements, etc. up to current standard, the applicant is also not required
to provide additional parking unless deemed by the Planning Commission to create a
potential negative impact where the additional parking stalls reasonably mitigates that
impact.

To ensure that this parking deficit does not result in detrimental impacts on the surrounding
area, staff recommends that the Commission impose the following conditions:

   •   Provide signed, written consent from the owner of the property where overflow parking
       is proposed;
   •   Provide a pedestrian safety plan detailing how the church members utilizing overflow
       parking spaces will safely travel to the proposed church, using the public right-of-way
       and legal means of crossing the street. To the greatest extent possible, overflow stalls
       shall be utilized by members of church leadership to allow congregation members to
       park in the site parking lot;



                                                                                           Page 5 of 8
                                                              Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                        Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   •   Justify that existing visibility conditions (i.e. street lighting) is adequate for safe
       pedestrian circulation from overflow areas. Provide additional compliant street;
       lighting, if necessary, as approved by the city’s public works and engineering division;
   •   Communicate to all members of the congregation the parking plan, including areas
       where members are allowed to park, and areas where it is prohibited.




Noticing
Per code requirement, notices were posted and mailed at least 10 days prior to the meeting.
Individual letters were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. The notice
was also posted to the city website and bulletin boards at City Hall.



Findings
Findings of fact include:
   1. A public hearing is being held in accordance with local and state requirements;
   2. The application was made pursuant to Title 19 of Cottonwood Heights City Code;
   3. Public noticing for this project was provided in accordance with local and state
       requirements;
   4. That the proposed use is one of the conditional uses specifically listed in the zoning district
       in which it is to be located;
   5. That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the
       health, safety, comfort, order or general welfare of persons residing or working in the
       vicinity;
   6. That the use will comply with the intent, spirit, and regulations of this title and will be
       compatible with and implement the planning goals and objectives of the city;
   7. That the use will be harmonious with the neighboring uses in the zoning district in which it is
       to be located;
   8. That nuisances which would not be in harmony with the neighboring uses, will be abated by
       the conditions imposed;
   9. That protection of property values, the environment, and the tax base for the city will be
       assured;
   10. That the use will comply with the city’s general plan;
   11. That some form of a guaranty assuring compliance to all imposed conditions will be
       imposed on the applicant or owner;
   12. That the internal circulation system of the proposed development is properly designed;
   13. That existing and proposed utility services will be adequate for the proposed development;
   14. That appropriate buffering will be provided to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise
       and visual impacts;
   15. That architecture and building materials are consistent with the development and
       surrounding uses, and otherwise compatible with the city’s general plan, subdivision
       ordinance, land use ordinance, and any applicable design standards;
   16. That landscaping appropriate for the scale of the development and surrounding uses will be
       installed in compliance with all applicable ordinances;
                                                                                              Page 6 of 8
                                                            Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                                                      Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

   17. That the proposed use preserves historical, architectural and environmental features of the
       property; and
   18. That operating and delivery hours will compatible with adjacent land uses.




Recommendation & Model Motions
Based on the findings and analysis presented herein, staff recommends approval of project CUP-
25-004, subject to the following conditions:

   1. The applicant shall minimize all pre- and post- gathering congregation, discussion, and
      socializing in outdoor areas. Noise levels shall continually be compliant with all applicable
      noise ordinance and quiet-hours regulations;
   2. The applicant shall require all vehicles in the northern site parking stalls to utilize back-in
      parking in order to minimize light trespass to adjacent property. Additionally, vehicles shall
      be promptly turned off when arriving at the site, and shall promptly exit stalls when leaving
      the site;
   3. The applicant shall provide signed, written consent from the property owner of the
      shopping center property where overflow parking has been proposed, subject to review and
      approval by city staff;
   4. The applicant shall provide a pedestrian safety plan detailing how the church members
      utilizing overflow parking spaces will safely travel to the proposed church, using the public
      right-of-way and legal means of crossing the street. To the greatest extent possible,
      overflow stalls shall be utilized by members of church leadership to allow congregation
      members to park in the site parking lot;
   5. The applicant shall provide a written plan and/or justification, subject to approval of the
      city’s Development Review Committee (DRC), that existing visibility conditions (i.e. street
      lighting) are adequate for safe pedestrian circulation from overflow areas. Provide
      additional compliant street;
   6. The applicant shall provide communication to all members of the congregation and users
      of the proposed use that includes the parking plan, including clear indication of areas
      where members are allowed to park, and areas where it is prohibited.


Approval
I move to approve project CUP-25-004 based on the findings and recommendations listed in the
staff report dated April 16, 2025…

   •     List any additional findings or recommendations for approval…
Denial
I move to deny project CUP-25-004 based on the following findings:

   •     List findings for denial…




                                                                                          Page 7 of 8
                               Planning Commission – May 7, 2025
                         Project CUP-25-004 – 3425 E. Bengal Blvd.

Attachments
  1. Project Narrative




                                                        Page 8 of 8
1654 E Fort Union Blvd. #9
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

03/31/2025

Mike Johnson
Community & Economic Development Director
Cottonwood Heights Community & Economic Development
2277 Bengal Blvd
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121

Subject: Conditional Use Permit Application Narrative

Dear Mr. Johnson:

The Beneficent Spiritist Center Uniao do Vegetal (UDV) is a non-profit religious organization
with general headquarters located in Brasilia, Brazil. Our local Salt Lake City congregation
was established in 2020 and is seeking to lease the property at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. on a
full-time basis, with the primary purpose to have a dedicated space to practice spiritual,
moral, intellectual, and behavioral development of individuals. To facilitate this, we hold
regular gatherings where we focus on family values, spiritual studies and behavior
improvement in all aspects of life. The gatherings occur routinely on the first and third
Saturdays of each month, and last roughly four (4) hours each, from 8:00PM to 12:15AM.
Periodically within any given month, one (1) or two (2) extra gatherings may be held either
on a weekday evening or on a Sunday at noon, which is at the discretion of the local
leadership.

Our congregation consists of forty-seven (47) members, of which six (6) have held key
leadership roles within the organization for decades in other parts of the U.S. and Brazil.
Overall, our group is comprised of mostly families, many of whom live in and around the
Cottonwood Heights area. Most families arrive at our gatherings together, and some
families carpool to reduce congestion and promote environmental sustainability. On
average, there are between roughly forty (40) and forty-five (45) members per gathering.

Upon approval of this plan, we intend on performing minor renovations to the interior of the
building only to create a more comfortable setting that more closely aligns with our needs.
The renovations will most likely include, but not necessarily be limited to, removing the
previous bank countertops and teller stations, replacing the flooring, and removing the
vault safe deposit storage. Our gatherings will occur solely indoors in the main central
open space and the ancillary office will be converted to a sleeping room for small children.
The bathrooms will remain as-is and the break room will continue as a space to serve
snacks and drinks. Drive-thru teller stations will be deactivated and all exterior building
components, including the landscaping, parking, lighting, and trash receptacles, will be
maintained in an as-is condition.

                                                                                              1
As a Christian-based group, we are committed to the highest respect for our neighbors,
and in full transparency, believe our operations may present two potential nuisances for
the residential neighbors directly to the north and west. The first is audible noise, and we
intend to mitigate this by minimizing any unnecessary conversation outdoors after a
gathering has ended. If it is required, a whisper audio level shall be maintained. The second
is vehicle headlights, and in an effort to minimize this, we shall require members who park
in the north parking spots to back their vehicles in upon arrival prior to the gathering, thus
pointing their headlights to the south and away from any of the neighbor’s windows upon
exiting the parking lot after a gathering. We shall also inform our members that we are
prohibited from parking on the street in the neighborhood directly to the west, nor in the
parking lot of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) directly to the east. We
believe we have sufficient parking on the site for our needs, and we have accounted for
potential additional overflow parking. If this occurs, the aforementioned key members of
the leadership will occupy the overflow parking spots, ensuring the nearby crosswalk is
used. Please see attached Parking and Circulation Plan for additional details related to
parking and circulation. Because of the difference in occupiable times in conjunction with
the neighboring LDS church, as well as many of the commercial businesses across Bengal
Blvd., we do not foresee an impact to their operations.

We feel that this movement is consistent with Cottonwood Heights zoning ordinance
because, although we are not a traditional commercial business, we offer a discreet and
peaceful transition within the residential and commercial contexts of this area. Our
organization is committed to community engagement and encompasses an environmental
branch called the New Enchantment Association for the preservation of nature, as well as
a Department of Beneficence dedicated to assist those in need, whether members of our
church or not. We thank you kindly for your time and consideration of this request and we
look forward to building a stronger community together.


With Sincere Gratitude,




Bento Viana

Enclosures:
Owner Consent Form
Site Photographs
A101 – Parking & Circulation Plan
A102 – Landscape Plan



                                                                                            2
                                                               SITE LIGHT (TYP.)
                               8’-6”
                               TYP.




                      17’-0”
                                1      2   3    4    5    6   7    8   9            10   11




                      TYP.
                                                                                                              PROHIBITED
                                                                                                              PARKING
                                                    VEHICLE FLOW

TRASH
RECEPTACLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 3500 E
                                                                                          FIRE LANE
                                                                       FIRE LANE
                                                    12   13   14


                                                PEDESTRIAN FLOW

                                                                                                          MAIN
                                                                                                          ENTRANCE                                     15               BENGAL BLVD
                                                                                                              OVERFLOW                                                              PEDESTRIAN FLOW
                                                                                                              PARKING                                                    16-20                                                 SMITH’S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GAS STATION

                                                                                                              PROHIBITED
                                                                                                              PARKING



                                                                                              FIRE LANE
                                                                        FIRE LANE




                                                         EMERGENCY
                                                         EGRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SMITH’S
                                       EGRESS                                  INGRESS                                                                                                                                         GROCERY

                                                BENGAL BLVD


              1     PARKING & CIRCULATION PLAN                                                                              2       OVERFLOW PARKING PLAN
             A101                                                                                                          A101


                                                                                                                                                             




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                      A     Issued for Cond.Use Permit App.     3/31/25    PARKING & CIRCULATION PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                               GRAVEL
                                                                                                               (EXISTING)




                         GRASS
                         (EXISTING)




                                                                                                            TREE
                                                                                                            (EXISTING)




                         TREE
                         (EXISTING)




                                                                                                            LOW DENSITY
                                                                                                            SHRUBS
                                                                                                            (EXISTING)




                                       1     LANDSCAPING PLAN
                                      A102


                                                                                       




                                                                                                                                                              
                       A Issued for Cond.Use Permit App.   3/31/25       LANDSCAPING PLAN
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                       A102
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                             
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
May 7, 2025 – CUP-25-004 Update


Request
The applicant for project CUP-25-004, a conditional use application to operate a church in the
existing building located at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. submitted written communication to staff after
business hours on Monday, May 5, 2025, noting that modifications to the parking plan would be
needed.

In the original proposal, the applicant proposed utilizing five parking stalls within the commercial
property (Brighton Pointe Shopping Centre) across the street for overflow parking to be used by
church leadership and administration. In the full staff report and analysis, findings and staff
recommendations were made based on this parking plan, including the submission of written
consent by the property owner to use the stalls.

In the applicant’s May 5, 2025, email, they stated, ‘Unfortunately, we were not able to obtain
written permission from Smith’s to park in their lot across the street…’ While other options exist for
the applicant to propose off-street parking that complies with city ordinance, additional analysis
and staff review is warranted, and staff findings and recommendations will need to be updated.
Considering this, and after discussion with the applicant on May 6, 2025, staff hereby amends its
recommendation to CONTINUATION TO JUNE 4, 2025.

As such, staff recommends the following:

   •   CUP-25-004 to remain on the 5/7/25 Commission meeting agenda for review, discussion,
       and public comment on the proposal.

   •   Staff analysis on the existing parking plan is no longer applicable, based on the update
       provided by the applicant. Additional review will be needed.

   •   Continuation of CUP-25-004 to the June 4, 2025 Planning Commission meeting. This allows
       additional time for applicant submittal and staff review of an updated parking plan to
       determine compliance with city code.
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
June 4, 2025


Request
Due to concerns regarding the lack of a codified definition for a live-work use type, the City Council
voted on February 18, 2025 to impose a moratorium on all live/work applications for up to 180
days. This only applies to applications submitted after the moratorium was enacted.

While the moratorium is in place, staff has been instructed to develop a definition for live/work
uses for consideration and possible codification.

Background & Overview
Concerns regarding a proposed live-work development at 3425 E. Bengal Blvd. (subsequently
withdrawn) led to the issuance of a moratorium on new live-work land use applications in the city.
Staff researched various definitions and regulatory practices from the Planner’s Dictionary, Urban
Land Institute, other cities in Utah and around the country to create the proposed definition
attached to this memo.

Staff also researched potential alternatives to codifying a definition, which are also included in the
attachment. The Commission discussed the proposed amendment at its April and May 2025
Commission meetings and provided input to staff. Based on that input, the following
recommended amendments have been prepared for Commission discussion and feedback
(attached to this document is a draft ordinance for Commission consideration):

RECOMMENDED NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

   •   Eliminate the following codified conditional uses from the Neighborhood Commercial zone:
           o Bed and Breakfast
           o Home occupations
           o Home pre-schools
           o Planned unit development
           o Residential facilities for elderly persons
           o Live/Work spaces

   •   Amend the following existing uses:
         o Replace ‘Mixed residential housing’ with ‘Neighborhood Mixed Use.’
         o Add an allowance for residential housing, but only as a component of a
             Neighborhood Mixed Use development application

   •   Establish a definition and development standards for ‘Neighborhood Mixed Use.’
           o Draft definition – ‘A single building containing more than one type of land use, at
               least one of which is residential, or a single development of more than one building
               and use, one of which is residential, where the different types of land uses are in
                                                            Planning Commission Memo – ZTA-25-001
                                                                                      June 4, 2025

               close proximity, planned as a unified complementary whole, and functionally
               integrated to the use of shared vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.’
           o   Draft standards:
                    All NC development standards pertaining to building height, setbacks,
                       landscaping, coverage, etc. shall apply
                    The mix of uses shall be consistent with the permitted and conditional uses
                       listed in the Neighborhood Commercial chapter
                    The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood Mixed Use project shall
                       constitute a minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit or
                       project square footage. At least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground
                       level along a public right-of-way shall be dedicated to the non-residential
                       portion of the project.

   •   While not directly a result of the moratorium, staff also recommends the following
       Neighborhood Commercial ordinance updates:
          o Modification of minimum lot size standards:
                   Current – minimum lot size of 7,000 square feet, minimum lot width of 60’,
                      minimum lot depth of 90’
                   Recommended – No minimum lot size or dimensional requirements,
                      provided that all applicable development requirements (setbacks,
                      coverage, parking, landscaping, etc.) are met
          o Modification of height requirements:
                   Current – Maximum height of two stories or 35’, whichever is less
                   Recommended – Maximum height of 35’ (remove reference to maximum
                      stories, focus on maximum building height)

Recommendation
Staff recommends that the Commission review the proposed ordinance draft to ensure that it
aligns with previous Commission expectations and discussions. If so, staff recommends that the
Commission forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council

MODEL MOTION – APPROVAL

I move to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for project ZTA-25-001

   •   Add any desired conditions, notes, or input

MODEL MOTION – DENIAL

I move to forward a recommendation of DENIAL to the City Council for project ZTA-25-001, based
on the following findings:

   •   List findings for denial.

ATTACHMENT:

   •   Draft Neighborhood Commercial Ordinance Amendment
Neighborhood Mixed-Use & NC Zone Updates
Concerns regarding a proposed live/work development in the NC zone caused the City Council to
issue a moratorium on allowing new live/work uses in the city. As a land use, Live/work is only
referenced in the NCZ zone chapter. Sta was directed to study and craft a proposed deﬁnition for
live/work spaces that satisﬁed concerns related to having a primarily residential land use in a
commercial zone.

Feedback from the Planning Commission and City Council indicated a desire to strike Live/Work as
an allowed use in the NC zone and propose a “Neighborhood Mixed-Use” deﬁnition.
Recommendation was also made to modify additional facets pf the NC zone. These changes are
represented below.


Title 19 Zoning
19.04 Definitions
19.04.1795 Neighborhood Mixed-Use                                                                         Formatted: Font: Bold, Underline

A single building containing more than one type of land use, at least one of which is residential, or a   Formatted: Underline
single development of more than one building and use, one of which is residential, where the              Formatted: Font: 11 pt
di erent types of land uses are in close proximity, planned as a uniﬁed complementary whole, and
functionally integrated to the use of shared vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.




Title 19.37 NC – Neighborhood Commercial Zone

19.37.010 Purpose

The NC zone is intended to protect and enhance neighborhood commercial areas by promoting the
concentration of businesses that provide convenience goods and services used frequently by local
residents. This zone provides for a scale and character of development that is consistent with
pedestrian-orientation and which tends to attract and promote a walk-in clientele. Development
within this zone should maximize human scale elements while providing a sensitive transition
between these uses and neighboring residences, including the provision of adequate and properly-
sited parking facilities. Additionally, the NC zone encourages residential mixed use to further
enhance the transition between neighborhood commercial and adjacent residential uses,
consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan.

19.37.020 Permitted Uses

There are no permitted uses in the NC zone.

19.37.030 Conditional Uses
Conditional uses in the NC zone are as follows:

   1. Mixed residential housing as deﬁned in this chapter, provided that the mix of uses is
      consistent with permitted and conditional uses in this chapter Neighborhood Mixed-Use;

   2. Bed and breakfast;

   3.2.          Commercial recreation;

   4.3.          Reception center;

   5.4.          Convenience store;

   6.5.          Grocery store, foodstu s, retailing, or delicatessen with a maximum gross ﬂoor area
          of no more than 7,500 square feet on any one ﬂoor and 15,000 gross occupiable square
          feet;

   7.6.          Convenience store/fast food combination without gasoline;

   8.7.          Medical, optical, dental o ices and clinics for health professionals, with the
          exception of after-hours care, overnight care or traditional medical retail stores, with a
          maximum gross ﬂoor area of no more than 7,500 square feet on any one ﬂoor and 15,000
          gross occupiable square feet;

   9.8.          Administrative, general or professional o ices containing no more than 7,500
          square feet on any one ﬂoor and 15,000 gross occupiable square feet;

   10.9.         Studios for an artist, designer, writer, photographer, sculptor or musician;

   11.10.        Restaurant or bar establishment;

   12.11.        Retail commercial;

   13.12.        Churches;

   14. Home occupations;

   15. Home pre-schools;

   16.13.        Child day-care/preschool;

   17.14.        Parks, playgrounds or community recreation;

   18. Planned unit development;

   19.15.        Public and private utility buildings or facilities;

   20. Residential facilities for elderly persons;

   21.16.        Child or adult day care facilities;

   22.17.        Schools;

   23. Live/work spaces; and (temporarily omitted, per Ordinance 432)
   24.18.     Retail/small commercial.

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 429 on 1/7/2025
Amended by Ord. 432 on 2/18/2025

19.37.040 Mixed-Use BuildingNeighborhood Mixed-Use

   1. A mixed-useNeighborhood Mixed-Use is a single building containing more than one type of          Formatted: Font: 11 pt
      land use, at least one of which is residential, or a single development of more than one
      building and use, one of which is residential, where the di erent types of land uses are in
      close proximity, planned as a uniﬁed complementary whole, and functionally integrated to
      the use of shared vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.building is a single
      building containing more than one type of land use, or a single development of more than
      one building and use, where the di erent types of land uses are in close proximity, planned
      as a uniﬁed complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the use of shared
      vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas.

   2. An example of a mixed-use residential building with a retail storefront on the main ﬂoor and
      one ﬂoor of residential living above the main ﬂoor is below:




   2. All Neighborhood Commercial development standards relevant to a proposed
      Neighborhood Mixed-Use development, such as maximum building heights, minimum
      setbacks, minimum lot size, etc. shall apply.
   3. The mix of uses shall be consistent with the permitted and conditional uses listed in the
      Neighborhood Commercial chapter.
   4. The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood Mixed Use project shall constitute a               Formatted: Font: 11 pt
      minimum of 25% of the total gross ﬂoor area of the entire unit or project square footage. At     Formatted
      least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way shall be
      dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.
                                                                                                       Formatted: Font: Aptos
                                                                                                       Formatted: List Paragraph

19.37.050 Limitations On Use
The following conditions and limitations shall apply in the NC zone:

   1. The maximum ﬂoor area of each separate use conﬁned within enclosing walls shall be
      limited to 7,500 square feet on the ﬁrst story. Below-grade square footage (i.e., basements)
      shall not be included in the maximum ﬂoor area so long as the area below grade is not
      occupiable space.

   2. The maximum ﬂoor area for schools shall be decided on case-by-case basis by the planning
      commission pursuant to Chapter 19.84 (Conditional Uses) of this title.

   3. All business, service, repair, processing, and storage, including refuse and garbage storage,
      shall be conducted wholly within enclosed buildings except the display of plants and o -
      street parking and loading.

   4. Items produced or wares and merchandise handled shall be limited to those sold at retail
      on the premises.

19.37.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements

The setbacks and yard requirements in the NC zone are as follows:

   1. The minimum yard along a street shall equal the front yard required in the least restricted
      adjacent residential zone.

   2. Minimum side and rear yards of 25 feet shall be required for those portions of a lot in an NC
      zone abutting a residential zone. For lots adjacent to a non-residential use the minimum
      setback shall be ten feet for side and rear yards.

   3. The minimum front, rear, and side yard setbacks for two-story buildings with commercial
      activity occurring on the second ﬂoor for property located in non-mixed use designated
      areas shall be at least one-half of the height of the principal structure.

   4. Also see chart 19.37.140 for more setback information for the NC zone.

19.37.070 Minimum Lot Size

Provided that all other standards in this chapter are met, there is no minimum lot size or
dimensional requirements for development in the Neighborhood Commercial zone.

The lot size in the NC zone shall be as follows:

   1. The minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet.

   2. The minimum lot width at the front building line shall be 60 feet.

   3. The minimum lot depth shall be 90 feet.                                                         Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.25", No bullets or
                                                                                                      numbering
19.37.080 Maximum Height Of Structures

   1. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
      stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.

   2. All other properties shall not exceed a height of two stories or 35 feet., whichever is less
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

19.37.090 Maximum Lot Coverage

The maximum lot coverage in the NC zone is 50%, including all structures, except portions of those
properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot coverage
shall be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024

19.37.100 Master Development Plan Required

Developments in the NC zone will be required to comply with a master development plan approved
by the planning commission.

19.37.110 (Reserved)



19.37.120 Screening

   1. All trash or refuse receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding
      properties by a masonry wall or screening that is a minimum of six feet high with visually
      obscuring painted metal gates, or shall be enclosed within a building. Any trash or refuse
      receptacle area shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any residential zone boundary or
      property containing a residential use.

   2. All ground-mounted mechanical equipment (including, without limitation, heating and air
      conditioning units) shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a masonry
      wall or shall be enclosed within a building.

   3. The use of roof appurtenances is discouraged. If roof appurtenances (including, without
      limitation, air conditioning units and mechanical equipment) are used, they shall be placed
      within an enclosure at least as high as the roof appurtenances that reﬂects the architectural
      design scheme of the project and complies with the requirements for penthouses and roof
      structures of the city’s building code. Such enclosures require planning commission
      approval, and shall minimize visibility from on-site parking areas, adjacent public streets,
      and adjacent residential property.

   4. All utility connections shall be compatible with the architectural elements of the site and
      not be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box
      locations shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power
      lines and other utility cables shall be installed underground where possible.

   5. Loading areas and docks shall be screened by landscaping and/or visual barriers from
      adjacent properties and public streets.

19.37.130 Landscaping Requirements
   1. All developments of over one acre in size shall dedicate at least 15% of the gross acreage to
      landscaping, including, without limitation, landscape bu ers, seating areas, walkways, etc.
      Drought resistant plants are encouraged.

   2. All developments in the NC zone shall provide a landscaped bu er, not less than eight feet
      in width, with trees planted no less than 30 feet on center, between any commercial
      development and any residential use or vacant land in a residential zone. This requirement
      can be included within the side and rear setbacks of the NC zone.

      Developments in the NC zone are intended to blend with the surrounding land uses,
      whether they are residential or non-residential. For that reason, the landscaped bu er
      should not be used as an obstructing barrier between land uses, but rather provide a
      landscaped transition between uses, with pedestrian walkways and trails.

19.37.140 Charts And Figures

Minimum Front Yard                        Equal to front yard of least restricted adjacent residential zone

Minimum Side and Rear Yards               25 feet if abutting a residential zone; ten feet otherwise

Minimum Lot Size                          7,000 square feetNo minimum lot size – see 19.37.070

Minimum Width at Building Line            60 feetNo minimum lot width – see 19.37.070

Minimum Lot Depth                         No minimum lot depth – see 19.37.070 90 feet

Maximum Lot Coverage                      50%

Maximum Building Height                   Two stories or 35 feet, whichever is less
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION
STAFF MEMO
June 4, 2025 – Moderate-Income Housing Plan (2025 Update)


Request
Planning Commission review, input, and recommendation on the city’s 2025 Moderate-Income
Housing Plan (project GPA-25-002), drafted in compliance with Utah State Code. Additionally,
current community housing and socioeconomic data is provided for review and discussion.

Background
Utah State Code (10-9a-408) requires every municipality in Utah to adopt a moderate-income
housing plan and submit annual update reports. The moderate-income housing plan is then
required to be updated every five (5) years. Cottonwood Heights is in year five of its current plan, so
an updated master plan will be required to be adopted and submitted by August 1, 2025. The
attached draft plan has been drafted and formatted to comply with the State’s reporting standards
and requirements.

Submittal of compliant reports is required to be eligible to receive project funding by State
Transportation Commission. This contingent funding comes from the Transportation Investment
Fund of 2005. Failure to submit compliant reports can result in a municipality being ineligible for
this funding, as well as Sales and Use tax revenue to fund Highways for certain jurisdictions.
Further, a daily fee of $250/day can be assessed, which escalates to $500/day for ongoing non-
compliance. The city has always been found compliant with this planning and reporting
requirement.

The moderate-income housing plan requires a municipality to adopt and provide implementation
measures for a minimum of three codified moderate-income housing strategies (five to be eligible
for priority road funding).

The ‘menu’ of moderate-income housing strategies codified in State Code is as follows (the
proposed strategies detailed in the draft report are bolded):

   •   Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate-income housing
   •   Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilities
       the construction of moderate-income housing
   •   Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into
       moderate income housing
   •   Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction
       related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the construction
       or rehabilitation of moderate-income housing
   •   Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
       dwelling units in residential zones
   •   Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in
       commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
       centers, or employment centers
                                                         Planning Commission Memo – GPA-25-002
                                                                                   June 4, 2025

•   Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate-income residential
    development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors
•   Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking required for residential
    development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident’s own vehicle, such as
    residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities
•   Amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments
•   Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in new developments
•   Preserve existing and new moderate-income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
    landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or,
    notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund
•   Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate-income housing
•   Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate-
    income housing
•   Implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer
    that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that
    operates within the municipality
•   Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to
    promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs
    offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity
    that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce
    Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
    association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter
    13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public
    housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that
    applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate
    income housing
•   Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set aside from a community
    reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
    agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing
•   Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6,
    Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act
•   Create a home ownership promotion zone pursuant to Part 10, Home Ownership Promotion
    Zone for Municipalities
•   Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory
    dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530
•   Create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing
•   Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose
    of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing
•   Develop a moderate-income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years old
    or older
•   Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1
                                                            Planning Commission Memo – GPA-25-002
                                                                                      June 4, 2025

   •   Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings
       compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located
       in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones
   •   Create a first home investment zone in accordance with Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 16, First
       Home Investment Zone Act
   •   Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing
       needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income,
       including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the
       adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
       in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing

Of the 5 strategies recommended in the 2025 plan, 4 are existing strategies that the city has
identified and pursued for the past 5 years. The new strategy added is related to the waiver or
reduction of impact fees for projects that include an affordable housing element.

In addition to identifying broad strategies, implementation measures must also be identified. Those
strategies and timelines are summarized in the draft report. These preliminary strategies and
measures were previously discussed by the City Council at its April 1st work session, with general
support for the direction.

Recommendation
Staff recommends that the Commission recommend APPROVAL of the draft 2025 Moderate-
Income Housing Plan to the City Council, including any additional feedback and input provided.

Model Motions
APPROVAL

I move to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for project GPA-25-002, an
updated Moderate-Income Housing Plan and Report, pursuant to Utah State Code reporting
requirements.

   •   Add conditions, recommendations, and/or additional input



DENIAL

I move to forward a recommendation of DENIAL to the City Council for project GPA-25-002, an
updated Moderate-Income Housing Plan and Report, based on the following findings:

   •   List findings for denial…



Attachments:

   •   Draft 2025 Moderate-Income Housing Plan
   •   Cottonwood Heights Community and Housing Data
MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING PLAN - 2025
Utah Code 10-9a-403 requires that municipalities include within their General Plan a Moderate-Income Housing
element. The moderate-income housing element should include the following:

    A. Provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing within the
       municipality during the next five years.
    B. For a specified municipality (see UCA 10-9a-408) that does not have a fixed guideway public transit
       station, the plan should include three or more of the moderate-income housing strategies described in
       statute.
    C. For a specified municipality that has a fixed guideway public transit station, the plan should include five
       or more of the moderate income housing strategies described in statute, of which one shall be the
       moderate income housing strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(W), and one shall be a moderate
       income housing strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q); and
    D. For a specified municipality, include an implementation plan as described in statute.

The moderate-income housing element should provide for a realistic opportunity to meet the need for
additional moderate-income housing within the municipality during the next five years.

HOUSING STRATEGIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
To qualify for State transportation funding, the State requires municipalities to select three housing affordability
strategies to implement in their community. In addition, the legislature is giving priority funding designation to
those communities that adopt two additional strategies. Cottonwood Heights has selected the following
strategies for implementing moderate-income housing in the community.

        Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in
         residential zones (Strategy E).
        Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial or
         mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers
         (Strategy F).
        Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments (Strategy H).
        Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set aside from a community reinvestment
         agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency to create or subsidize
         moderate income housing (Strategy P).
        Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate-income housing (Strategy L)




Page 1   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
STRATEGY 1: CREATE OR ALLOW FOR AND REDUCE REGULATIONS RELATED TO
INTERNAL ADUS
Cottonwood Heights has created regulations related to internal accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in residential
zones (Strategy E).

The City recently adopted an ADU ordinance (Title 19, Chapter 19.75) which requires an approval process
through permitting. Permits are renewed annually to allow the city to monitor the number and quality of ADU
units in the city. The City also has conditionally permitted detached ADUs, which requires Planning Commission
approval. The City has continued in the implementation of this goal through the City’s ADU ordinance by
monitoring all units to ensure compliance with existing zoning, fire, and building code requirements and
completing annual permit renewal and initial inspection for all units. 10 licenses have been approved and
issued, with 5 additional licenses under review. The city has created a webpage and informational handouts to
help educate residents on the steps required to obtain an ADU license.

IMPLEMENTATION
    Continue to monitor the number of applications received and approved for ADUs biannually (June and
       December each year), and promote the city’s ADU licensing process in city publications.
    Research other cities ADU standards and consider ordinance amendments to streamline
       pathway/regulations for detached ADUs (Spring 2026).
    Develop a city ‘card file’ system for new homes / ADUs as pre-engineered building plans can expedite
       review times and expenses (Spring 2026).

STRATEGY 2: ZONE OR REZONE FOR HIGHER DENSITY OR MODERATE-INCOME
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Cottonwood Heights has zoned or rezoned for higher density or moderate-income residential development in
commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment
centers (Strategy F).

The City has multiple commercial zones that allow for mixed residential housing (Residential Office,
Neighborhood Commercial, Mixed Use, and PDD). The City recently adopted a form-based code. The form-
based code will create new zoning designation and land use regulations for properties within the City’s primary
commercial corridor (Fort Union Boulevard), allowing for mixed residential units within commercial areas. The
City had also purchased property that would be redeveloped into a town center and would include mixed-use
(public space, retail, and housing) under the form-based code. Developers and landowners are actively taking
advantage of this change. Two mixed-use projects (ICO and Wasatch Rock Planned Development Zones) under
this provision have been entitled (one completed), creating mixed-use developments with substantially more
housing options available (1 total housing unit between the two projects originally (entitled granted for over
600 units between the two projects).

Along major corridors, the city has adopted and/or is considering zoning options that accommodate residential
density within commercially zoned areas. The City has fairly high permitted density in these areas (35 units per
acre in its mixed-use zone) and is in consideration of a form-based development code that continues to
accommodate these types of densities in key commercial redevelopment areas. Recently, the city has begun
the process of developing a neighborhood mixed-use land use type to accommodate smaller-scale mixed-use
projects in its Neighborhood Commercial areas.

The City has also procured funding through the Wasatch Front Regional Council to update its General Plan,
which will include a substantial affordable housing element. Additionally, the City has received funding to


Page 2   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
complete a form-based redevelopment code, which will assist in implementing the land use and housing
recommendations from the updated General Plan. Both projects are currently underway.

IMPLEMENTATION
    Continue to track the number of moderate-income housing units in developments along the corridor
       (June each year).
    Ensure that mixed-use housing options are properly codified, defined, and regulated in various non-
       residential zoning districts (Fall 2025).
    Identify development strategies to utilize private resources, public-private partnerships, and other
       state-and federal-level programs to implement goals such as improving active infrastructure along Fort
       Union Boulevard (Winter 2027).

STRATEGY 3: IMPLEMENT ZONING INCENTIVES FOR MODERATE INCOME UNITS IN
NEW DEVELOPMENTS
Cottonwood Heights has implemented zoning incentives to provide additional low and moderate-income units
within developments (Strategy J).

The City created an ordinance (Title 19, Chapter 19.78) that creates opportunity for a planned development
district with high density allowances. The planned development ordinance requires deed-restricted units in
these development areas (a minimum of 10-15% of multifamily units must be deed-restricted units) to maintain
affordability in valuable redevelopment areas. The City also actively tracks projects that are using the zoning
incentives tool to ensure that new development provides moderate income housing in projects. Additionally,
the City requires developers to submit quarterly reports on the number of affordable units in addition to
information on how the units are marketed.

The City has implemented a density bonus system which has resulted in over twenty 50 percent AMI units and
over forty 80 percent AMI units. One project (ICO) contains approximately 200 total residential units – 21 of
which are affordable to households earning not more than 50% AMI. This project is completed and fully
occupied. A second project (Wasatch Rock Planned Development Zone) has received development entitlement,
with site construction, permitting, and plan review underway. Of the 400 total residential units in the entitled
project, 15% of units will be affordable to households earning not more than 80% of AMI. This 6-phase
development process will include affordable housing in the first phase with 15 percent of the units being
affordable.

IMPLEMENTATION
        Continue to track development projects using incentive tools (June each year).
        Identify local financial incentives for development of targeted housing types such as FHIZ/HOPZ
          zones, use of future TIF/CDRA funds, fee waivers/reductions for MIH projects, etc. (Fall 2025).

STRATEGY 4: DEMONSTRATE UTILIZATION OF A MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
SET ASIDE FROM A CRA, RDA, OR CDA AND RENEWAL AGENCY TO CREATE OR
SUBSIDIZE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
Cottonwood Heights has utilized a moderate-income housing set aside from a community reinvestment agency,
redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency (Strategy P).

A Community Reinvestment Area for the city’s Town Center (the general area around Fort Union Boulevard and
2300 East) has been created for approximately 70 acres, and the city intends to begin budget negotiations with
taxing entities within the coming year to work towards the establishment of TIF.


Page 3   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
The City has also reallocated funds left over from two community development areas established and
completed prior to city incorporation. Ten percent of this reallocated fund has been tentatively budgeted for
affordable housing implementation in the city, or investment into a regional affordable housing investment
fund.

IMPLEMENTATION
    Begin process of establishing TIF collection within the Town Center Community Reinvestment Area
       (Spring 2026).
    Consider creation of Gravel Pit Community Reinvestment Project Area (CRA) by developing plan
       documents (2026).
    Formalize plan to utilize leftover CDA / EDA funds, including a portion for investment in affordable
       housing solutions (Winter 2025).

STRATEGY 5: REDUCE, WAIVE, OR ELIMINATE IMPACT FEES RELATED TO
MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING
Cottonwood Heights has plans to reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing
(Strategy L).

Cottonwood Heights City has the ability to charge impact fees for stormwater and roads as part of new
development proejcts. The City will review its impact fees associated with development and identify ways in
which these fees can be reduced and/or waived to help encourage more moderate income housing within the
city. The city will take this same approach with additional types of impact fees that it may consider from time to
time (fire, park, public safety, etc.).

IMPLEMENTATION
    Review impact fees with development community to identify criteria in which fees can be
       reduced/waived to promote more incentives for moderate income housing (Spring 2026).
    Establish attainable goals and objectives based on impact fee review that can be integrated into the
       City’s 2026 Moderate Income Housing Report (Fall 2026).




Page 4 LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
ADDITIONAL STATE SUPPORT
The City could benefit from additional training related to MIHR requirements and data collection. In addition,
training related to the 24 identified strategies and how to implement these strategies could be beneficial.

ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Numerous programs are available to encourage the development and preservation of affordable housing at all
income levels. Homeownership programs are well established, and support should continue and expand. The
Home Program and HOME Investment Partnership Act are important resources for moderate and low-income
homeowners, and CDBG funds can also be used to assist homeowners. In addition, the Utah Housing
Corporation provides homeownership assistance through below market loans (FirstHome), down payment and
closing cost assistance, and lease to-own housing supported by Low Income Housing Tax Credits (CROWN).
Further, HUD has special loans for the construction of rental and cooperative housing for the elderly and
handicapped. In addition, funds are available under the Olene Walker Loan Fund and the McKinney Fund (with
emphasis on transitional housing).

Additional programs that the city is interested in exploring, in addition to the strategies identified above, are
targeted at providing options for current property owners and current properties to ensure that housing
remains affordable over time. Several strategies for this are as follows:
    • As budget permits, establish a neighborhood improvement fund, that can provide funding for qualifying
       property owners for maintenance, repairs, and general property improvement. The city will work to
       develop a policy and framework for this program, which can then be funded at the city’s discretion upon
       budget availability;
    • Expansion of the city’s 50/50 sidewalk repair program to assist in repair costs for sidewalks, drive
       approaches, and park strips in front of existing homes in the city;
    • In addition to city policies and programs, the city will continue to engage in other sectors responsible
       for housing development, to share in the effort in providing affordable housing options. This includes
       private sector groups, non-profit organizations, and other levels of government (state, federal).

FINANCIAL RESOURCES FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
Potential funding sources for housing include revenue from the general fund, CDBG grants and RDA affordable
housing pass through. The general fund is essentially drawing upon the existing resources of the community
and reallocating some of these resources to promote affordable housing. This could include earmarked sales
tax or other revenue to provide development subsidies for deed-restricted affordable housing. The CDBG funds
may require some reallocation of funds from infrastructure needs to housing, although both are valid projects.

PRESERVATION OF HOUSING STOCK
The preservation and rehabilitation of the current housing stock (rental and owner-occupied) will also be an
important way to help keep housing affordable. The City should set a goal to rehabilitate a number of housing
units before the year 2025. There are various programs available to the City to assist with home rehabilitation
efforts. The HOME consortium and the Home Programs will be important to help people under 80 percent of
HAMFI preserve the quality of their home investments. Additionally, CDBG funds can be obtained to manage
and invest into low- and moderate-income areas. While infrastructure is important for community building,
some portion of the CDBG budget should be targeted toward housing programs.

COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS
Additional Redevelopment Agency (RDA) funds could become available to the community with the
establishment of Community Reinvestment Areas and the redevelopment of selected sites. Under Community
Reinvestment Areas (CRAs), the redevelopment agency is required to allocate 10 to 20 percent of total tax



Page 5   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
increment revenues it receives (from CRAs) to affordable housing. In the event the City creates a new CRA, tax
increment would be set aside for affordable housing.




Page 6   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
CHAPTER 3 – HOUSING TABLES
EXISTING CONDITIONS
POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHICS
Using current housing development policies, the population of Cottonwood Heights is projected to grow by
almost 25 percent between 2024 and 2050, which is less than the 31 percent growth rate projected for Salt Lake
County, Table 3.1. An analysis of the Traffic Area Zone (TAZ) data compiled by the Wasatch Front Regional
Council shows Cottonwood Heights is anticipated to grow from 33,594 residents to 41,878 by 2050, while Salt
Lake County is projected to grow from 1,223,914 to 1,563,562. Similarly, the number of households in
Cottonwood Heights is projected to experience growth, potentially reaching more than 18,000 households by
2050, from a current stock of 13,286 households. This represents a more modest rate of growth than is
anticipated to occur throughout the County, which is projected to see a 47 percent increase in households
between 2020 and 2050. This means that Cottonwood Heights will likely experience fewer new households than
the County but see an increase in household size over time. This indicates that future housing should be
constructed for a diversity of family sizes but also consider life-cycle movement as residents age and less space
is needed to accommodate large families.

Cottonwood Height’s 2023 median age of 39.1 years is significantly higher than both the county and state
medians of 33.8 and 31.7, respectively. This Figure has also increased across Cottonwood Heights, Salt Lake
County, and the state since the 2010 Census, indicating that residents are not moving out of Cottonwood
Heights post-retirement age. This trend is likely to persist, as Cottonwood Heights is an established community
with a strong residential fabric, enabling residents to experience the whole lifecycle within the community.
Chapter 3 explores the implications of potential population growth within the community with regards to
additional housing needs.

TABLE 3.1: POPULATION PROJECTS FOR COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS AND SALT LAKE COUNTY 2010-2050
                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS   SALT LAKE COUNTY    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                        POPULATION          POPULATION           HOUSEHOLDS                   HOUSEHOLDS
 2010                                               33,433               1,029,655                 12,495             364,031
 2020                                               33,617               1,185,238                 13,211             428,279
 2024                                               33,594               1,223,914                 13,286             439,553
 2030                                               33,111               1,343,901                 13,712             475,303
 2040                                               34,790               1,436,366                 14,742             554,372
 2050                                               41,878               1,553,562                 18,109             630,951
 Source: U.S. Census; Wasatch Front Regional Council TAZ Projections


Cottonwood Heights has an Area Median Income (AMI) of $116,583 which is significantly higher than that of Salt
Lake County ($94,658), as shown in Table 3.2. Table 3.3 shows a comparison of AMI of surrounding and
neighboring communities. Households classified in the under-30% AMI band make 30% of the City’s median
income, or not more than $34,975 annually. Households within the 30 – 50 percent income band earn 30 – 50
percent of the median income for the area, or $34,975 -$58,292 annually. Households making 100 percent of
the AMI make the median income for Cottonwood Heights. The significant difference between the City and
County AMI is likely attributed to high housing demand compared to relatively constrained supply (i.e. the city
is substantially built out), Cottonwood Heights’ location along the Cottonwood Canyons and larger, single-family
units that present lifestyle opportunities that attract high income households.




Page 1   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
TABLE 3.2: 2023 AREA MEDIAN INCOME FOR COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS AND SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                         SALT LAKE COUNTY
 Household Income <= 30%                                                                      $34,975                              $28,397
 Household Income >30% to <=50%                                                               $58,292                              $47,329
 Household Income >50% to <=80%                                                               $93,266                              $75,726
 Household Income >80% to <=100%                                                             $116,583                              $94,658
 Household Income >125%                                                                      $145,729                             $118,323
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023


Table 3.3 illustrates a comparison of AMI of surrounding and neighboring communities. The Cottonwood
Heights’ AMI is higher than the comparable cities with the exception of Draper. The Draper AMI is higher than
Cottonwood Heights’ at $130,680. Each surrounding community below has a higher AMI than Salt Lake County.

TABLE 3.3: 2023 SURROUNDING AREAS MEDIAN INCOME
                                                                                                                                   SALT
                                              COTTONWOOD
                                                                   DRAPER     HOLLADAY        MILLCREEK    MURRAY     SANDY        LAKE
                                                HEIGHTS
                                                                                                                                  COUNTY
 Median Household Income >80% to <=100%            $116,583       $130,680        $112,369      $98,502    $87,864   $111,242      $94,658
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023


Although Cottonwood Heights is generally more affluent than comparative communities, 12.1 percent of
households make only half of the median income for the area, as illustrated in Table 3.4. Although this
represents a significantly smaller proportion compared to Salt Lake County at 19.8 percent, future housing
types and development should consider this through allotting a dedicated number of attainable housing units
in each development and exploring alternative housing options, such as ADUs, to reduce housing cost.

TABLE 3.4: INCOME DISTRIBUTION FROM 2010 TO 2021 BY NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS
                                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                                   SALT LAKE COUNTY
   INCOME DISTRIBUTION OVERVIEW           2010           2010 %       2021          2021 %        2010     2010 %      2021       2021 %
 Household Income <= 30%                         720        6.0%            900        7.2%       39,150     11.2%     39,560        9.9%
 Household Income >30% to <=50%                  720        6.0%            625        5.0%       39,830     11.4%     39,445        9.9%
 Household Income >50% to <=80%               1,865        15.5%       1,880          15.0%       63,295     18.2%     72,025       18.0%
 Household Income >80% to <=100%              1,885        15.7%       1,410          11.2%       40,585     11.7%     47,915       12.0%
 Household Income >100%                       7,545        62.7%       7,745          61.7%      165,250     47.5%    200,635       50.2%
 Total                                      12,040        100.0%      12,560         100.0%      348,110    100.0%    399,580      100.0%
 Source: 2010-2014, 2017-2021 4-Year HUD Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy Data (CHAS)


HOUSING STOCK
Of the 13,098 housing units in Cottonwood Heights, more than 72 percent are registered as single-family
structures. Many residents value the single-family character of their neighborhoods and feel that it should be
maintained as Cottonwood Heights grows. Around nine percent of structures are considered mid-density, which
range from duplexes, townhomes, and 1-unit attached structures.

TABLE 3.5: OCCUPIED HOUSING TYPES IN COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
                           HOUSING TYPE                                                             2023 PERCENT
 Single Family Detached                                                                                                             72.2%
 Two Family (Duplexes, Townhomes, and other 2 units structures)                                                                      8.9%
 Multi-Family (Over 2 units)                                                                                                         8.6%
 *Includes Mobile Homes
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023




Page 2   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
While single family options will be considered for the future, much of the future housing for this city will occur
as duplex, townhome, and multifamily development as the number of households in the area increases and
available space is reduced further.

The majority of Cottonwood Heights housing stock are owner-occupied, as shown in Table 3.6. A comparison
of housing stock of surrounding areas illustrates a similar trend as Cottonwood Heights, with a majority of
housing stock being owner occupied. With such a high rate of ownership, Cottonwood Heights residents are
increasingly likely to live in the city for long periods of time. With increased tenure comes a well-developed
connection and personal investment into the area, creating a strong neighborhood identity and neighborhood-
based community. Opportunities for home-improvement grants and incentives may help maintain housing
stock over time and promote a health and safe living space for residents.

TABLE 3.6: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS HOUSING UNITS BY OCCUPANCY
                                                        OCCUPIED HOUSING
                                 TOTAL HOUSING UNITS                                        % OWNER         % RENTER
                                                             UNITS
 Cottonwood Heights                                 13,098                  12,457                    71%               29%
 Draper                                             16,865                  16,325                    72%               28%
 Holladay                                           12,561                  11,765                    80%               20%
 Millcreek                                          27,546                  25,473                    63%               37%
 Murray                                             21,421                  20,401                    65%               35%
 Sandy                                              34,329                  32,852                    76%               24%
 Salt Lake County                                  440,166                 416,589                    67%               33%
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023


Homes in Cottonwood Heights tend to be large with almost 80 percent of units having 3 or more bedrooms,
although since 2010, the average Cottonwood Heights household size has remained constant at 2.6-2.7 people
per household. This is slightly less than the County average of 2.8 people per household which has also
remained constant since 2010.

TABLE 3.7: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS HOUSING UNITS BY SIZE
                           HOUSING TYPE                                                      2023 PERCENT
 Total Housing Units                                                                                               13,098
 No bedroom                                                                                                             2.9%
 1 bedroom                                                                                                              5.5%
 2 bedrooms                                                                                                            13.1%
 3 bedrooms                                                                                                            26.2%
 4 bedrooms                                                                                                            27.9%
 5 or more bedrooms                                                                                                    24.4%
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023


Average density in land zoned for single family residential in Cottonwood Heights is 3.67 units per acre, with
the average density in land zoned for multi-family residential is 11.11 units per acre. Allowable residential
densities in the city generally range from rural residential areas with minimum one acre lots to mixed use areas
with a maximum of 35 units per acre. The table below compares the amount of land zoned for residential use
within the City and the number of corresponding households.




Page 3    LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
TABLE 3.8: HOUSEHOLDS BY ZONE
                ZONING                             ACRES                       COUNT OF ADDRESS          HH PER ACRE
 Single Family                                                  2,444.91                    8,964.00                    3.67
 Multi-family                                                    314.09                     3,490.00                   11.11
 Foothill Residential                                            822.75                           7.00                  0.01
 Rural Residential                                               896.03                      690.00                     0.77
 Source: Salt Lake County Parcel Data, Address Points


Most housing units in Cottonwood Heights were built between 1960 and 1999 as development moved outwards
from Salt Lake City into agricultural plots and open space during a post-war period of rapid urbanization as
illustrated in Figure 3.1.

FIGURE 3.1: AGE OF HOUSING STRUCTURES IN COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS




                                          9.1% 15.8%



                                                        26.5%
                                   48.6%




                 AFTER 2000      1980-1999        1960-1979         BEFORE 1960



Using Salt Lake County parcel data, the following table shows the average square footage of all households
during the construction periods illustrated in Figure 3.1. Due to the limited open developable space and existing
large lot sizes, future development will need to occur as compact development and through utilizing available
space within large existing lots. Housing conditions in Cottonwood Heights are adequate, with over 99 percent
of housing units having complete plumbing and kitchen facilities.

TABLE 3.9: AVERAGE SQUARE FOOTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS BY AGE OF STRUCTURE
                                              AVERAGE SQUARE FOOTAGE
 After 2000                                                         4,316.57
 1980-1999                                                          4,186.54
 1960-1979                                                          2,760.85
 Before 1960                                                        2,245.45
 Source: Salt Lake County Parcel Data


The City’s population is projected to continue to increase through 2050, reaching 41,878 residents. Map 3-1
shows that population growth in the City is expected to occur in the north-east region, with the central area of
the City maintaining its current population.




Page 4 LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
                                                              Map 3-1
                     Illustration of Population Growth by TAZ in Cottonwood Heights (2050 – Left; 2050 – Right)




The illustrations below use TAZ population projections to visually compare the concentration of growth in Salt
Lake County in 2025 and 2050. The population in Salt Lake County will shift concentration towards the west,
with substantial growth in West Jordan, South Jordan, and Herriman.

                                                              Map 3-2
                       Illustration of Population Growth by TAZ in Salt Lake County (2025 – Left; 2050 – Right)




HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
Housing affordability is determined by calculating the percentage of the household’s total annual gross income
paid for housing costs (mortgage/ rent, utilities, mortgage insurance, etc.) Cottonwood Height’s 2023 median
household income was $116,583, significantly above the County’s 2023 median household income of $94,568.
Moderate income housing is defined by statute 1 as housing that is affordable to those households whose
income is less than or equal to 80% of a region’s Area Median Income (AMI). To be classified as “affordable”,
housing-related costs cannot surpass 30 percent of household income.


1
    10-9a-103(41)



Page 5     LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
RENTER-OCCUPIED UNITS
Households making 80 percent of AMI earn 80 percent of the median income for the area, or $93,266. A total
of 1,119 renter units’, comprising 31.1 percent of the City’s total of units, housing-related costs surpass 30
percent of household income, with 1,103 rent units with annual incomes under $100,000.

TABLE 3.10: RENTER-OCCUPIED HOUSING COSTS AS A PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME
                            LESS THAN 20%                 20 TO 29%              30 PERCENT OR MORE                 TOTAL

  HH INCOME RANGE                                                   % OF                       % OF                          % OF
                        RENTER       % OF RENTER     RENTER                     RENTER                     RENTER
                                                                   RENTER                     RENTER                        RENTER
                        UNITS           UNITS        UNITS                      UNITS                      UNITS
                                                                   UNITS                      UNITS                         UNITS
 > $20,000                       -           0.0%             -        0.0%           262           7.3%       262             7.3%
 $20,000 to $34,999            47            1.3%             -        0.0%           255           7.1%       302             8.4%
 $35,000 to $49,999              -           0.0%         106          2.9%           239           6.6%       345             9.6%
 $50,000 to $74,999            54            1.5%         255          7.1%           294           8.2%       603            16.8%
 $75,000 to $99,999:           30            0.8%         394         11.0%            53           1.5%       477            13.3%
 $100,000 or more           1,067           29.7%         358          9.9%            16           0.4%      1,441           40.1%
 Total Households           1,198          33.3%          1,113      30.9%          1,119          31.1%      3,430          95.3%*
 Source: U.S. Census, American Community Survey, 5-yr Data 2019-2023
 *5 percent of renter households are not computer for per the ACS.


Additionally, the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute tracks moderate and affordable housing needs and supply
across the State and maintains the Utah Housing Affordability Dashboard in collaboration with the Utah
Department of Workforce Services. The dashboard compares the number of renter households with the
number of moderate, affordable, and available homes. It is important to note that the Utah Housing
Affordability Dashboard was last updated in 2022.

Figure 3.2 identifies the number of households by income bracket who cannot find a moderate or affordable
resident within the City. The figure suggests there is a surplus of 57 affordable rental units at the 80 percent of
AMI income level; however, the remaining income brackets are experiencing a shortage of affordable rental
units. The total cumulative deficit of affordable housing is 3,851 units, illustrating that renter-occupied
households with an income lower than 80 percent of AMI spend greater than 30 percent of monthly income on
rent costs.




FIGURE 3.2: 2022 CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/DEFICIT FOR RENTER HOUSEHOLDS BY AMI




Page 6   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
                                    Cottonwood Heights Cumulative Surplus/Deficit for Renter Households by AMI
                                                                       # of Housing Units - # of Households by AMI

                            200                                                                                                                    57
                              -
  Unit Surplus(Deficit)




                           (200)
                           (400)
                           (600)                                                                                                 (418)

                           (800)           (710)
                          (1,000)                                                                           (818)
                                                                   (953)
                                                                                      (1,009)
                          (1,200)
                                    30% AMI ($30.7K ) 40% AMI ($41K ) 50% AMI ($51.2K ) 60% AMI ($61.4K ) 70% AMI ($71.7K ) 80% AMI ($81.9K )



Figure 3.3 projects the five-year needs for moderate and affordable housing by income bracket, totaling 252
renter households through 2027. The information detailed below does not aim to solve the current deficiency
illustrated in Figure 3.2 and focuses on meeting future growth in the City.

FIGURE 3.3: 2022 -2027 RENTER HOUSING DEMAND BY AMI

                                                   Cottonwood Heights 2022 -2027 Renter Housing Demand by AMI
                                                                              Based on Existing Tenure & AMI Ratios

               70                                                                                                                               63
               60                                                                                                               56

               50                                                                                         46
                                                                                    37
               40
                                                              29
               30
                                      20
               20
               10
                   -
                             30% AMI ($30.7K )       40% AMI ($41K )       50% AMI ($51.2K ) 60% AMI ($61.4K ) 70% AMI ($71.7K ) 80% AMI ($81.9K )




OWNER-OCCUPIED UNITS
In Table 3.11, affordable home value ranges have been established for 10 income levels. These values have
been generated through a mortgage payment calculation that reflects a 10 percent down payment, a loan
length of 30 years (360 months), current property tax and home insurance rates, $300 for utility payments, and
varying values for loan interest, as displayed further in the table.

TABLE 3.11: AFFORDABLE HOME PRICE RANGES BY INCOME CATEGORY
                                                     4 % INTEREST                     5% INTEREST                       6% INTEREST             7% INTEREST
  HH INCOME RANGE
                                                   LOW             HIGH           LOW             HIGH               LOW         HIGH        LOW         HIGH
 Less than $15,000                                       $0         $14,791              $0       $13,380                  $0     $12,155          $0    $11,091
 $15,000 to $24,999                                $14,796          $64,111       $13,384         $57,994            $12,159      $52,686    $11,095     $48,074
 $25,000 to $34,999                                $64,116         $113,430       $57,998        $102,608            $52,690      $93,216    $48,077     $85,056
 $35,000 to $49,999                            $113,435            $187,410      $102,612        $169,529            $93,220    $154,012     $85,060    $140,530
 $50,000 to $74,999                            $187,415            $310,709      $169,533        $281,064       $154,016        $255,339    $140,534    $232,986




Page 7                      LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
                              4 % INTEREST               5% INTEREST                      6% INTEREST                       7% INTEREST
   HH INCOME RANGE
                           LOW              HIGH      LOW              HIGH             LOW              HIGH            LOW              HIGH
 $75,000 to $99,999       $310,714      $434,009    $281,068         $392,599       $255,343         $356,665           $232,990         $325,442
 $100,000 to $149,999     $434,013      $680,607    $392,603         $615,669       $356,669         $559,318           $325,446         $510,355
 $150,000 to $199,999     $680,612      $927,206    $615,673         $838,739       $559,322         $761,971           $510,359         $695,268
 $200,000+                       $927,211                   $838,743                          $761,975                         $695,271


A gap analysis was completed to compute the difference between household counts and existing affordable
housing stock by income range. The housing stock figures are inclusive of all owner-occupied single-family,
duplex, and condo units in Cottonwood Heights. Home market value figures were sourced from the Salt Lake
County assessor for 2024, and affordability ranges are based on a 6 percent mortgage interest rate. This analysis
reveals a significant lack of affordability for households in Cottonwood Heights with annual incomes under
$100,000. A total of 3,920 units, comprising 25.2 percent of the City’s total of 12,457 units, are affordable for
any of the household income ranges under $150,000. There is a surplus of units affordable to households with
incomes above $150,000, as the ranges above this figure represents 74.8 percent of units but only 40.8 percent
of owner-occupied households.

TABLE 3.12: AFFORDABLE UNIT ANALYSIS
                                   % OF OWNER-OCCUPIED         AFFORDABLE HOME                % OF AFFORDABLE
         HH INCOME RANGE                                                                                                           GAP
                                       HH IN RANGE               PRICE RANGE                       UNITS
 Less than $15,000                                  2.1%               $0 to $12,155                             0.0%                       2.1%
 $15,000 to $24,999                                 1.6%        $12,159 to $52,686                               0.0%                       1.6%
 $25,000 to $34,999                                 1.4%        $52,690 to $93,216                               0.0%                       1.4%
 $35,000 to $49,999                                 3.9%       $93,220 to $154,012                               0.0%                       3.9%
 $50,000 to $74,999                                 7.5%      $154,016 to $255,339                               2.6%                       4.9%
 $75,000 to $99,999                                 8.9%      $255,343 to $356,665                               3.0%                       5.9%
 $100,000 to $149,999                              13.3%      $356,669 to $559,318                              19.6%                       -6.3%
 $150,000 to $199,999                              12.2%      $559,322 to $761,971                              42.1%                      -29.9%
 $200,000+                                         28.6%                  >$761,975                             32.7%                       -4.1%


Based on the proportion of owner-occupied households as a percentage of total projected households in 2024,
it was determined that 2,766 of 9,449 owner-occupied households, or 29.3 percent, in Cottonwood Heights
would not be able to afford a home in present conditions with housing costs comprising less than 30 percent
of monthly gross income. Using TAZ estimates, it is estimated there will be an additional 303 households in the
City by 2030. Distributing these additional households into current household income ranges and combining
these figures with existing households, 2,874 owner-occupied households with need for affordable housing by
2030 is estimated.

TABLE 3.13: AFFORDABLE UNIT ANALYSIS
                        AFFORDABLE HOME PRICE       AFFORDABLE         HOUSEHOLDS        UNITS NEEDED           HOUSEHOLDS         UNITS NEEDED
  HH INCOME RANGE
                                RANGE                  UNITS             (2024)             (2024)                (2030)              (2030)
 Less than $15,000      $0 to $12,155                            -               278                 278                  287                287
 $15,000 to $24,999     $12,159 to $52,686                       -               210                 210                  217                217
 $25,000 to $34,999     $52,690 to $93,216                       -               186                 186                  192                192
 $35,000 to $49,999     $93,220 to $154,012                      -               514                 514                  531                531
 $50,000 to $74,999     $154,016 to $255,339                  280                995                 715                1,027                747
 $75,000 to $99,999     $255,343 to $356,665                  320               1,183                863                1,221                901
 $100,000 to $149,999   $356,669 to $559,318                2,121               1,764                     -             1,821                    -
 $150,000 to $199,999   $559,322 to $761,971                4,556               1,620                     -             1,672                    -
 $200,000+              >$761,975                           3,535               3,794                259                3,916                381




Page 8 LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
                         AFFORDABLE HOME PRICE       AFFORDABLE      HOUSEHOLDS     UNITS NEEDED    HOUSEHOLDS    UNITS NEEDED
  HH INCOME RANGE
                                RANGE                   UNITS          (2024)          (2024)         (2030)         (2030)
 Total                                                     10,812          10,545           3,025        10,883          3,255




Page 9   LRB PUBLIC FINANCE ADVISORS | 41 NORTH RIO GRANDE, SUITE 101 | SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
                  MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                    PLANNING COMMISSION WORK MEETING

                                  Wednesday, May 7, 2025
                                          5:00 p.m.
                                 2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                  City Council Work Room

ATTENDANCE

Members Present:      Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                      Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                      Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:        Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; City
                      Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel; System
                      Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Present:       Kevin Miller, Cynthia Blair, Mary Ellen Johnson, Adam Nash

WORK SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Work Session to order at 5:00 p.m.

1.0    Review Business Session Agenda.

Chair Anderson reviewed the Business Session Agenda and indicated that the Commission would
hold four public hearings. Item 3. 2 was Project CUP-25-004, a Conditional Use Permit to operate
a church on Bengal Boulevard. Items 3.2 and 3.3, Project ZMA-25-002, was an application for
General Plan and Zoning Map Amendments on a property located at 3526 East Fort Union
Boulevard. Item 3.3 was further consideration of Project ZTA-25-001 regarding the Work/Live
designation.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson, reported that a new alternate
member was recently appointed to the Planning Commission. Rusty Lugo would complete
training and join the Commission in June 2025.

Mr. Johnson reviewed Item 3.2, Project CUP-25-004. The subject property is the old Wells Fargo
Building, and the Applicant intends to operate a church on the site. The Applicant, Bento Viana
representing the Beneficent Spiritist Center União do Vegetal (“UDV”) Church, proposed minor
modifications to the exterior of the building, including signage and the drive-through canopy, as
well as interior remodeling. The 0.50-acre property is in the Neighborhood Commercial Zone,
and churches are allowed as a Conditional Use. The site is established; no new development was
proposed, and any changes would be reviewed for compliance with Cottonwood Heights City
Code.



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                      1
The UDV Church is a formally recognized non-profit religious organization. Regular gatherings
are held on the first and third Saturdays of each month from 8:00 p.m. to 12:15 a.m., with one to
two additional gatherings per month on weekday evenings or midday Sundays. The congregation
consists of 47 members, mostly families who live in the area.

Mr. Johnson reviewed the original Site Plan, which indicated that no changes were proposed to
parking, circulation, trash receptacle locations, etc. The site includes 14 parking stalls, as well as
additional parking available under the drive-through canopy. The original application included
the use of stalls in the Brighton Pointe Shopping Center for a total of 21 proposed stalls. An
amendment received on May 6, 2025, indicated that the UDV Church will not be able to use the
Brighton Pointe Shopping Center parking lot for overflow parking. The revised plan indicates
four potential parking stalls under the canopy, as well as an area of Bengal Boulevard that could
accommodate on-street parking. On-street parking cannot be used to meet minimum parking
requirements because public parking cannot be reserved for a specific use.

Mr. Johnson reported that the initial Staff review and recommended Conditions of Approval were
based on the original application. Due to the late receipt of the modified application, they did not
have time to review and update those recommendations. As such, Staff requested that the item be
tabled to a future meeting to provide adequate time for review.

The Planning Commission is the final Land Use Authority on Conditional Use Permits.
Conditional Uses are entitled to approval if any detrimental impacts can be mitigated by reasonable
conditions. Additionally, the Utah Religious Land Use Act states that the government may not
impose or implement a Land Use regulation in a manner that imposes a substantial burden on a
person’s free exercise of religion unless the burden is in furtherance of a compelling government
interest and is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling government interest. Mr.
Johnson advised that the Planning Commission should consider the standard site impacts only and
advised against setting conditions on hours or methodology of operation.

Staff concluded that the overall negative impacts of the Use would be minimal because it would
be in use approximately two times per month. However, the full congregation would be present
each time. As such, two potential detrimental impacts were identified.

Noise and Hours of Operation
   • The proposed Use would take place during typical quiet hours. The applicant proposed
       two mitigations to this impact:
          o Require back-in parking to reduce vehicle light trespass.
          o Minimize pre- and post-service outdoor gathering and conversation.
   • Any proposed site lighting would be subject to the Cottonwood Heights Outdoor Lighting
       Ordinance.
   • All other noise, light, and nuisance ordinances would also apply.
   • Staff found that the proposed mitigations would reasonably mitigate the detrimental
       impact.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                           2
Parking and Traffic
   • A new development would require 24 total parking stalls or approximately 0.50 stalls per
      attendee. The original proposal was for 20 to 21 stalls.
   • Per CHCC § 19.80.050.F, parking requirements may deviate from the standards when the
      City’s Development Review Committee or Planning Commission determines that the
      deviation meets the intent of the Chapter.
   • The Applicant would be asked to provide a study or specific justification from a qualified
      professional regarding deviation from the normal parking requirements prior to Staff
      making a recommendation regarding this detrimental impact.

Mr. Johnson noted that no new expansion or development was proposed, and on-street parking
could accommodate the additional vehicles. However, public parking is not allowed to count
toward minimum parking requirements for the specific Conditional Use. The nature of the Use is
such that the average daily impact would be minimal, but all regular gatherings would generate
the highest possible parking impact. As such, the potential impact of a parking shortage is a
reasonably anticipated detrimental impact. Without adjacent overflow parking, Staff concluded
that additional analysis and review were warranted to determine a reasonable allowable parking
reduction. Parking was Staff’s only concern regarding the application. The applicant proposed
that they would prohibit parking on Oak Shadow Circle, so the only available overflow parking
would be in the Bengal Boulevard public right-of-way.

Commissioner Shelton asked if the Applicant had discussed potential overflow parking with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints and indicated that their large parking lot could easily
accommodate the overflow.

Mr. Johnson summarized Staff’s recommendation for the application as follows:

   •   The overall Use is compliant with the neighborhood Commercial Ordinance.
   •   Noise and light concerns are reasonably mitigated by the Applicant’s proposed conditions
       and adherence to local codes and ordinances.
   •   Staff recommended that the item be continued to the next meeting to provide time to
       determine if the parking impacts could be mitigated.

Commissioner Smith noted that 47 was a very specific number, and congregations usually grow
over time.

In response to a question from Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Johnson indicated that the Applicant is
a tenant, but the property owner’s consent was included with the application. Future signage must
comply with the City’s Sign Code, which allows wall and monument signs. A Building Permit
would be required for the signage.

Commissioner Steinman asked about the building’s maximum occupancy, as the congregation
could grow and additional people would likely also attend events.

Commissioner Mills stated that there are many vacant parking lots in the City and asked if they
could facilitate a discussion between the Applicant and its neighbors. Mr. Johnson stated that the


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                        3
off-street parking standards encourage shared parking where possible, and the hours of operation
would lend to a shared parking arrangement if one can be negotiated by the Applicant. In response
to a follow-up question, Mr. Johnson stated that no comments had been received in response to the
public notice.

Commissioner Steinman asked if the City would approve any shared parking agreements.
Mr. Johnson reported that a Condition of Use would be that the Applicant provide written consent
from the other property owner(s). Staff would not dictate terms, but the City Attorney would
review the agreement.

Mr. Johnson reviewed Application ZMA-25-002 for a Land Use Map Amendment from
Residential Office to Residential Medium Density and Zoning Map Amendment from Residential
Single Family (“R-1-8”) to Residential Multi-Family (“R-2-8”). The 0.95-acre property is located
at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard and is owned by Land Development LLC, represented by
Applicant Adam Nash.

The Zoning and Land Use Maps were reviewed. The property is currently zoned R-1-8, which
requires a minimum of 8,000-square-foot lots. The proposed R-2-8 Zone has similar standards
regarding lot size, setbacks, heights, etc., but would allow one two-family dwelling on each lot.
Most other properties in the area are zoned R-1-8, and an adjacent property that is zoned R-1-8 has
existing twin homes that were built in the late 1970s. Mr. Johnson indicated that the adjacent parcel
carries the Residential Medium Density designation. Other parcels in the area are designated
Residential Low Density, which includes six to 10 units per acre, typically townhome and
condominium developments and higher density single-family neighborhoods. The Applicant
intended to construct three twin homes for a total of six units on the property.

Development standards for the R-2-8 Zone include:

   •   Minimum lot size: 8,000 square feet;
   •   Minimum lot width: 65 feet;
   •   Maximum building height: 35 feet; and
   •   Setbacks: 25 feet front, 20 feet rear, 15 feet side.

Mr. Johnson reported that the eastern one-third of Fort Union Boulevard was previously designated
Mixed Use. In 2019, a City-initiated General Plan Amendment changed the designation to
Residential Office. In 2022, an application to rezone the subject property to Residential Office
was supported by Staff and the Planning Commission but denied by the City Council. The
Applicant then submitted an application to change the Land Use to Residential Medium Density
and zoning to R-2-8, which was also supported by Staff and the Planning Commission but denied
by the City Council. In response to a question from Commissioner Smith, Mr. Johnson stated that
he was unable to speculate on the City Council’s reasoning, but the denial was included in the
Staff Report.

After the application was denied in 2022, the Applicant moved forward with a three-lot single-
family subdivision. A Final Subdivision Plat was created but not recorded. Numerous public
improvements were also made to the site including curb, gutter, sidewalk, and utility upgrades.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                          4
Mr. Johnson reviewed the Concept Plan and noted that a Final Subdivision Plat would be submitted
if the rezoning request was approved. The Applicant intends to utilize a private driveway on the
east side of the parcels to create a rear-entry development, which would require full design review
and permission from the owner of the private driveway. The concept is similar in lot size and
layout to the current Subdivision Plat but includes twin homes instead of single-family homes. In
response to a question, Mr. Johnson clarified that the shared driveway is on the subject property,
but access to the driveway would be via a private access road to the east of the property. The
Applicant could choose to include driveway access from Fort Union Boulevard as shown on the
original Subdivision Plat.

In response to a question from Commissioner Barnes, Mr. Johnson reported that two comments
and some phone calls were received in opposition to the application, and he expected neighboring
residents to speak at the public hearing.

Commissioner Mills asked if staff had any concerns about utilizing a shared driveway versus
individual driveways. Mr. Johnson stated that the shared driveway would consolidate access, and
it would be beneficial to not have driveway access from Fort Union Boulevard. It could not be
mandated, but that would be his preference. Commissioner Mills expressed concerns about
visibility and the condition of the existing private road. Mr. Johnson stated that the Fire
Department would review the application to ensure that the private road could support additional
traffic. A new Subdivision Plat would also be required, which would trigger a review by all City
departments.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Johnson stated that the Applicant had not
indicated an intended building height. The Concept Plan suggests smaller side setbacks between
the homes and larger exterior side setbacks. Regarding fencing, the properties would have Fort
Union Boulevard addresses and would be required to adhere to front fencing requirements of four
feet in the front yards and up to six feet along all other sides. Fences up to 12 feet in height are
allowed with the approval of neighboring property owners in both the R-1-8 and R-2-8 Zones.

Commissioner Steinman asked if the City could require a Homeowner’s Association or
maintenance agreement to maintain the properties. Mr. Johnson clarified that the Planning
Commission was considering the Zoning and Land Use Amendments. If approved, the
Subdivision Plat would not require Planning Commission approval. However, when applications
are received for developments that include common areas, Staff inquires as to how those areas will
be maintained. Options include individual ownership of the units’ footprint with surrounding
common space and subdivision into three 8,000-square-foot lots that are each 50% owned by
individual property owners.

Staff recommended approval of both applications based on the following:

   •   The R-2-8 Zone and Medium Density Residential Land Use designation are not more
       intense than the current future Land Use designation.
   •   The adjacent property has a Residential Medium Density Land Use designation.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                         5
   •   The adjacent property to the east has existing multi-family twin homes that were
       constructed in 1978.
   •   Development impacts are comparable to the R-1-8 Zone.

Mr. Johnson reported that a significant change since the application was denied in 2022 is that
Utah now allows accessory dwelling units (“ADU”) as a Permitted Use in all single-family
residential zones. If three single-family homes were constructed on the site, each home could have
an ADU, which would result in the same number of residents as the twin homes. Residents had
expressed concern about the properties being used as short-term rentals. However, Mr. Johnson
clarified that City Code would prohibit short-term rentals on the properties as they front on a public
right-of-way. “Short term” is defined as less than 30 consecutive days.

Mr. Johnson clarified that the Planning Commission would be voting on a recommendation to the
City Council, and two separate motions would be required.

Project ZTA-25-001 regarding the Live/Work Text Amendment was reviewed next. Mr. Johnson
noted that Staff previously proposed a narrow definition of Live/Work spaces, but changes had
been made based on concerns raised by the Planning Commission at its last meeting. Approved
Conditional Uses in the Neighborhood Commercial (“NC”) Zone included many residential Uses.
Concerns were expressed that they could be used as a loophole to propose a primarily residential
project that is not in alignment with the purpose of the Neighborhood Commercial Zone, which is
to focus primarily on the commercial element. The recommended Amendments were then
reviewed.

Elimination of the following residential Uses:
   • Bed and breakfast
   • Home occupations
   • Home preschools
   • Planned unit development
   • Residential facilities for elderly persons
   • Live/Work spaces

Amendment of the following:
  • Replace Mixed Residential Housing with Neighborhood Mixed Use.
  • Add an allowance for residential housing, but only as a component of a Neighborhood
     Mixed Use Development Application.

Mr. Johnson clarified that the eliminated residential Uses could be allowed in a Mixed-Use
Development but could not be counted as a required commercial element.

Neighborhood Mixed Use would be defined as follows:

       A single building containing more than one type of Land Use, at least one of which is
       residential, or a single development of more than one building and Use, one of which is
       residential, where the different types of Land Uses are in close proximity, planned as a



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                           6
       unified complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the Use of shared vehicle and
       pedestrian access and parking areas.

Per the Planning Commission’s recommendations, the following standards were also added:

   •   All NC development standards pertaining to building height, setbacks, landscaping,
       coverage, etc. shall apply.
   •   The mix of uses shall be consistent with the Permitted and Conditional Uses in the NC
       Zone.
   •   The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood mixed-use project shall constitute at least
       25% of the gross floor area of the entire unit or project.
   •   At least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way
       shall be dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.

Additional proposed changes include:

   •   Removal of the current minimum lot size requirements provided that all applicable
       development requirements are met.
   •   Removal of the two-story maximum height requirement and retention of the 35-foot
       maximum height.

Commissioner Steinman asked if the Commercial Code would apply to all projects in the NC Zone.
Mr. Johnson clarified that an integrated Mixed-Use Development would likely trigger commercial
building standards. Projects with commercial and residential in different phases of the
development may only require compliance with the International Residential Code for the
residential portion.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson stated that Planning
Commission and City Council feedback, as well as citizen comments, indicated that the NC Zone
was not a residential tool, but rather a neighborhood-scale commercial zoning tool that could
incorporate a residential component. Staff believed that the Text Amendment accomplished that
goal while respecting development standards.

Commissioner Mills stated that he liked the added flexibility and opportunities it would provide
developers. The new ordinance would clarify the City’s intention with the zone. There are not
many properties zoned NC, and if properly developed they could help contribute to a neighborhood
feel in pockets of the City. Chair Anderson appreciated the revisions as they clarified the
ordinance.

Commissioner Shelton stated that he was present at the City Council meeting and agreed with
Mr. Johnson’s statement that Permitted Uses should be added to the NC Zone. The more clarity
they provide, the easier the process will be for developers. Mr. Johnson stated that all zones should
have Permitted Uses. Most of the City’s NC Zones are in areas where form-based code would
apply, but the remaining NC Zones should have designated Permitted Uses.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                          7
In response to a question from Chair Anderson, Mr. Johnson reported that the moratorium would
expire in mid-August 2025.

2.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Steinman moved to ADJOURN the Work Session. Commissioner Smith
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at 5:57 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                  8
                    MINUTES OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                     PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING

                                   Wednesday, May 7, 2025
                                           6:00 p.m.
                                  2277 East Bengal Boulevard
                                    City Council Chambers

Members Present:       Chair Lucy Anderson, Vice-Chair Sean Steinman, Commissioner Mike
                       Shelton, Commissioner Dan Poulson, Commissioner Dan Mills,
                       Commissioner Mike Smith, Commissioner Garry Barnes

Staff Present:         Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson; City
                       Recorder, Tiffany Janzen; Deputy City Recorder, Cienna Brummel; System
                       Administrator, Alex Earl

Public Present:        Kevin Miller, Cynthia Blair, MaryEllen Johnson, Adam Nash, Jessica
                       Keane, Cynthia Blair, Harry D. Shehan, Robbie McFarland, Dagmar
                       James, Marsha Whitney, Rusty Bollow, Gabriel Wyman

BUSINESS SESSION

Chair Lucy Anderson called the Planning Commission Business Session to order at 6:04 p.m.

1.0    Welcome and Acknowledgements.

       1.1       Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest to Disclose.

There were no Ex Parte Communications or Conflicts of Interest disclosed.

2.0    General Public Comment.

There were no public comments.

3.0    Business Items.

       3.1       Project CUP-25-004 – A Public Hearing and Potential Action on a Request by
                 Bento Viana on Behalf of União do Vegetal Church (“UDV”) for a Conditional
                 Use Permit to Operate a Church at a Former Wells Fargo Branch at 3425 East
                 Bengal Boulevard.

Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson presented the Staff Report
and indicated that the Item was discussed in detail during the Work Session. The application was
for a Conditional Use to operate a church in an existing building on an approximately 0.50-acre
property at 3425 East Building Boulevard. The Applicant, Bento Viana representing the
Beneficent Spiritist Center União do Vegetal (“UDV”) Church, proposed only minor exterior



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                     9
modifications including signage and retrofit of the drive-through canopy, in addition to minor
interior remodeling.

Staff determined that the application was in compliance with the NC Zone. Churches are allowed
as a Conditional Use. The site is also established, and no new development was proposed.

The UDV church is a federally recognized nonprofit religious organization. Gatherings are held
on the first and third Saturday of each month from 8:00 p.m. to 12:15 a.m., with one to two
additional gatherings per month on evenings or midday Sundays. The congregation consists of 47
members, 40 to 45 of which are typically present at each gathering. Most members of the
congregation are families who live in the area and travel together to church.

The existing building is approximately 2,300 square feet. The parking lot contains 15 parking
stalls, plus several potential stalls underneath the drive-through canopy. The original Parking Plan
also proposed overflow parking in the Brighton Pointe Shopping Center. City Staff received an
amended Parking Plan after the close of business on May 6, 2025, that indicated an overflow
parking agreement would not be available. The revised plan converts the canopy area into four
additional parking stalls. It also shows parking areas on Bengal Boulevard. However, City Code
does not allow public parking to count toward minimum parking requirements as public parking
is available to all members of the public on a first-come, first-served basis.

The Planning Commission is the final Land Use Authority on Conditional Use Permits.
Conditional Uses shall be approved if reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed Use. Additionally, the Utah Religious Land Use
Act states that the government may not impose or implement a Land Use regulation in a manner
that imposes a substantial burden on a person’s free exercise of religion unless the burden is in
furtherance of a compelling government interest and is the least restrictive means of furthering that
compelling government interest. Mr. Johnson advised the Planning Commission to consider
physical site impacts only. Hours and methodology of the Use could not be considered.

Mr. Johnson reported that the Impact Analysis identified two potential detrimental effects that
could warrant imposing Conditions of Approval.

Noise and Hours of Operation
   • The proposed Use would take place during typical quiet hours. The applicant proposed
       two mitigations to this impact:
          o Require back-in parking to reduce vehicle light trespass.
          o Minimize pre- and post-service outdoor gathering and conversation.
   • Any proposed site lighting would be subject to the Cottonwood Heights Outdoor Lighting
       Ordinance.
   • All other noise, light, and nuisance ordinances would also apply.
   • Staff found that the proposed mitigations would reasonably mitigate the detrimental
       impact.

Parking and Traffic
   • No traffic impacts were identified.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                         10
   •   Per the Institute of Transportation Engineering Parking Generation Manual, a new
       development would require approximately 0.50 stalls per attendee or 24 parking stalls. The
       proposed Parking Plan indicates 15 to 18 total stalls.
   •   Strict adherence to parking standards is required for new or expanded use, but that did not
       apply to this application. However, the site must be able to accommodate its maximum
       parking impact.
   •   Per CHCC § 19.80.050.F, parking requirements may deviate from the standards when the
       City’s Development Review Committee or Planning Commission determines that the
       deviation meets the intent of the Chapter. Due to late receipt of the amended Parking Plan,
       Staff could not yet make a determination on whether a deviation was warranted for this
       application.
   •   On-street parking cannot count toward minimum required parking. Although there are
       available parking spaces on Bengal Boulevard, they cannot be considered with the
       application.

Mr. Johnson stated that the nature of the Use was such that the average daily impact would be
minimal, but all regular gatherings would generate the highest possible parking impact. As such,
the potential impact of a parking shortage is a reasonably anticipated detrimental impact. Staff
recommended that the item be continued to allow time for additional analysis and review to
determine a reasonable allowable parking reduction, if any, on the site. All other identified
detrimental effects could be reasonably mitigated by the proposed Conditions of Approval.

Commissioner Steinman asked if the application would be reviewed for compliance with the Fire
Code as he was concerned that a 47-member congregation would exceed the building’s maximum
occupancy. Mr. Johnson reported that the Building Permit application for interior improvements
would require a Fire Department review. The Planning Commission was considering the
Conditional Use and its potential impacts only.

A representative of the Applicant, Kevin Miller stated that he would speak with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints regarding a potential Shared Parking Agreement. They received
late notice that Brighton Pointe Shopping Center was no longer considering the arrangement.

Commissioner Smith stated that the Applicant wanted to be a good neighbor. He asked about the
potential for congregation growth as it was already at the limit of what the building could
accommodate for parking and occupancy. Mr. Viana stated that they have paused growth, but
there is a waiting list of potential congregants. He is a licensed architect and reviewed occupancy
requirements, and they are confident they can accommodate more people in the building. Parking
is an issue. However, he lives in the neighborhood and knows how many open parking spaces are
available, especially during church hours, and is confident they can reach an agreement to
accommodate any future growth.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing.

Harry Daniel Shehan stated that he lives near the proposed church and was concerned about safety.
He believes the religion involves consuming hallucinogenic drugs to contact spirits and expressed
concern about people driving after participating in that ritual.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                       11
Gaberiel Wyman stated that he is responsible for bringing the religion to Salt Lake City. He
understood that it can be scary through the lens of online comments, but they are misunderstood.
He has been a member of the UDV Church for 25 years. They encourage people to be good
citizens, respect the law, work hard, and follow the rules. His religion helps him be the person he
is and perform well as a Chief Executive Officer, father, friend, and husband. Members of the
Church do not drink, do drugs, or smoke, and they have been able to help a lot of people. They
have been in their current rental space for four years. They drink tea and study Jesus’ teachings.
They are not loud. He encouraged anyone who wanted to know more about the Church to speak
with him.

Marsha Whitney lives near the subject property and moved to the area 15 years ago from the East
Coast. Her understanding is that residents of Utah are against smoking, caffeine, alcohol, and
drugs but the City was considering approving a church that would meet for four hours on Saturday
night. She disagreed with Mr. Wyman regarding the effects of drinking Ayahuasca. She was
against the application for that reason, as well as the parking restrictions on Bengal Boulevard.

Rusty Bollow appreciated everyone’s concerns and stated that people are allowed to drink coffee
and smoke in Utah, and there is a parking lane in front of the property on Bengal Boulevard. The
congregation consists of respectable professionals. They do not attend church to party, but to grow
spiritually. They do not contact spirits. They worship Jesus Christ and believe in the Christian
faith.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

It was clarified that the Planning Commission is not defining what a church is. They are
considering the Conditional Use and its associated impacts. Mr. Johnson stated that the UDV
Church is a federally recognized religious non-profit institution.

Commissioner Shelton moved to CONTINUE Project CUP-25-004 to the June 4, 2025 Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Steinman seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Chair
Anderson-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.2     Project ZMA-25-002 - (General Plan Amendment) – A Public Hearing and
               Potential Recommendation to City Council on a Request by Adam Nash for a
               General Plan (Land Use Map) Amendment at 3526 East Fort Union
               Boulevard. The Applicant is Requesting a Change from Residential Office to
               Residential Medium-Density.

Chair Anderson reported that Items 3.2 and 3.3 would be presented together.

Mr. Johnson presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject property is approximately
one acre of undeveloped land owned by Land Development LLC. The proposal included a Land




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                       12
Use Map Amendment from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map
Amendment from Residential Single Family (“R-1-8”) to Residential Multi-Family (“R-2-8”).

The Land Use Map is a component of the City’s General Plan that envisions how properties will
be used and developed in the future. The current Land Use allows for both neighborhood-scale
office and residential development. Examples include the Highland Drive frontage road north of
Fort Union Boulevard, which currently has dental and medical offices and a Pilates studio. The
proposed Land Use of Residential Medium Density does not allow a commercial component.

A property’s zoning regulates how the property can be used: development standards, setbacks,
building heights, etc. Both the current R-1-8 Zone and the proposed R-2-8 Zone require a
minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet, but R-2-8 would allow twin homes featuring one building
with two units per lot.

The Residential Medium Density Land Use envisions a density of six to 10 units per acre and
typically corresponds with townhouse and condominium developments, as well as higher-density
single-family neighborhoods.

Development standards for the R-2-8 Zone include:

   •   Minimum lot size: 8,000 square feet
   •   Minimum lot width: 65 feet
   •   Maximum building height: 35 feet
   •   Setbacks: 25 feet front, 20 feet rear, 15 feet combined side

Mr. Johnson reported that the eastern one-third of Fort Union Boulevard was previously designated
Mixed Use. In 2019, a City-initiated General Plan Amendment changed the designation to
Residential Office. Rezoning and Land Use Map Amendments submitted in 2022 were supported
by Staff and the Planning Commission but denied by the City Council. The Applicant then
submitted an application to change the Land Use to Residential Medium Density and zoning to R-
2-8, which was also supported by Staff and the Planning Commission but denied by the City
Council. City Ordinance requires a one-year waiting period before resubmitting an application.

After the application was denied in 2022, the Applicant proceeded with a three-lot single-family
subdivision. A Final Subdivision Plat was created but not recorded. Curb, gutter, and sidewalk
were also installed at that time.

Mr. Johnson reviewed the Concept Plan indicating that an existing private lane to the east would
be utilized for rear entry into the development, which would eliminate the need for driveways on
Fort Union Boulevard. Those plans would be subject to full Subdivision Plat review.

Staff recommended approval of both applications based on the following:

   •   The R-2-8 Zone and Medium Density Residential Land Use designation are not more
       intense than the current Land Use designation.
   •   The adjacent property has a Residential Medium Density Land Use designation.


Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                     13
   •   An adjacent property to the east has existing multi-family twin homes.
   •   Development impacts are comparable to the R-1-8 Zone. Lot standards are similar, parcel
       access would not impact existing neighborhood streets, and the traffic density impact
       would be minimal.
   •   Any single-family home in the City is entitled to an accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”) for
       a second family to live on the parcel. If the originally entitled single-family subdivision
       were constructed, each home would have the option to operate an ADU, which could allow
       six families to live on the lots with the same impact as three twin homes.

Staff found that the proposed Zoning and Land Use designations were compatible with the overall
goals of the General Plan, and the application was made pursuant to Cottonwood Heights City
Code § 19.90. A public hearing was being held in accordance with State and City requirements,
after which the Planning Commission would make a recommendation to the City Council. The
Council would have final legislative authority.

Chair Anderson stated that questions had been raised about the allowed building height and
clarified that the maximum building height is 35 feet in both the R-1-8 and R-2-8 Zones.
Mr. Johnson added that the City can regulate the height of the structure but not its design.

The Applicant, Adam Nash stated that he has been in the development business for 43 years. He
was aware of concerns regarding density and traffic with multi-family housing. Per a 2024 traffic
study conducted by the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT"), Fort Union Boulevard is
designed for an average daily traffic (“ADT”) count of 87,656 cars between 2300 East and the
canyon. The current ADT is 9,900. He believes that three additional houses would have an
insignificant impact as they would generate 1.78 ADT or a total of 5.44 cars. He mistakenly
believed that his previous applications would be approved, but he failed to properly present and
defend his application. Staff and the Planning Commission both gave positive recommendations
on those applications, but the City Council ignored their professional recommendations.
Neighboring property owners are supportive of rezoning the property and believe it is an
appropriate use. Interest rates have increased since his previous applications, which directly
affects the City’s housing crisis and availability of affordable housing. He hoped that Staff and
the Planning Commission would be consistent in their findings.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Nash stated that he would build the
homes in partnership with Hamlet Homes.

Commissioner Mills asked why the development would be accessed from the south. Mr. Nash
stated that the units would have rear-load garages. He intends to purchase the private drive on the
east and incorporate it into the project. The street and open space will be maintained by the
Homeowners Association. The private drive will enhance safety and cleanliness and remove the
need for six drive approaches in the span of 250 feet on Fort Union Boulevard. He has built several
similar subdivisions that were well-received.

In response to a question from Commissioner Mills, Mr. Nash stated that the neighboring home
was constructed 16 feet from his property line, an ADU slightly closer, and a shed directly on the




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                       14
property line. After he acquires the private drive, he plans to shift the structures to create up to a
25-foot setback on his property.

Chair Anderson opened the public hearing.

Dagmar James stated that she lives close to the subject property. The lots have been empty since
they had the same discussion three years previously and the City Council agreed that only three
single-family homes would be built. She understood Staff and the Applicant’s comments about
traffic impacts, but Apple Valley is a very old community of single-family homes, and she does
not want it to change. She asked that the Planning Commission recommend denial of the
application. She stated that the neighboring property owner would have a driveway right outside
of their fence, but she thought it would be better to have it on the Fort Union Boulevard side.

Mary Ellen Johnson stated that she was speaking on behalf of several residents. In June 2022,
approximately 90 residents of the Apple Valley area signed a petition against Mr. Nash’s plan to
build medium-density multi-family units on the subject property. After the Planning Commission
approved the request, residents met with City Council Members to express their concerns. They
listened and voted against the General Plan change. It was agreed that the development would
include three single-family homes. The neighbors’ expectations for single-family homes had not
changed. She did not believe the Planning Commission had the authority to undo the City
Council’s decision and did not understand why the matter was being revisited. She urged the
Planning Commission to abide by the previous decision.

Robby McFarland stated that she lives close to the development and agrees with her neighbors.
She expressed concern about parking. The Gear Room was approved without adequate parking,
and she does not believe there are enough parking spaces on Fort Union Boulevard.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Mills stated that Apple Valley is a legacy neighborhood that brings great character
to Cottonwood Heights. However, it is a property owner’s right to resubmit their application, and
it would be illegal for the Planning Commission to refuse to consider it. In a property rights state,
a very strong legal reason is required to prohibit a property owner from exercising those rights.
The Planning Commission is always concerned about traffic, and he believes that a single private
driveway would be beneficial to neighbors because it would be one access instead of four.

Commissioner Smith understood the community’s concerns regarding increased density. He is
not in favor of increasing density, but he also understands that it cannot be avoided. Utah is one
of the most attractive states in the country, and more people will be moving to the state. Density
is likely to increase as a result. There was no valid legal reason not to reconsider the application.

In response to a question from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson reported that the General
Plan update will consider general areas of the City, but he did not expect substantial changes from
the existing Fort Union Boulevard Master Plan. Areas along busy corridors like Fort Union
Boulevard can vary; what makes sense near 1300 East is different from what makes sense in the
area of the subject property. It is a busy collector street. The General Plan update will focus on



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                          15
major redevelopment opportunities like the Gravel Pit and Town Center, but it will not include
substantial reenvisioning on a parcel-by-parcel basis.

Commissioner Steinman stated that Fort Union Boulevard includes a large mix of densities, which
could justify rezoning the property. He asked what potential reasons the Commission could have
to deny a rezoning request. Mr. Johnson stated that the threshold was different from Conditional
Uses. They must consider if it is in the best interest of the City and if there were reasonable
findings to support approval or denial. Decisions cannot be arbitrary or capricious. He noted that
the Planning Commission had an advisory role to the City Council on this matter.

In response to follow-up questions from Commissioner Steinman, Mr. Johnson clarified if the
current application was approved, a revised Subdivision Plat would be submitted and reviewed by
Staff. If necessary, a traffic impact analysis could be required by the City Engineer. A
development of this size would trigger an analysis, but possibly not a full traffic technical study.
Rear-load driveways are not prohibited by the current zoning, but the access would be reviewed
by the Fire Department to determine compliance with Fire Code.

Regarding ADUs, three homes and three ADUs could be constructed in the currently entitled
subdivision. Internal ADUs must be within the footprint of the home, but City Code does not
dictate a minimum or maximum size. ADUs require owner occupancy, so the Applicant could
construct them, but the homebuyer would have to obtain the license. Detached ADUs require a
Conditional Use Permit and are subject to stricter standards that are hard to meet on an 8,000-
square-foot lot.

Commissioner Steinman stated that he believes the project is very interesting from an attainable
housing perspective. Chair Anderson agreed and stated that, based on the Planning Commission’s
criteria for review, there was no justification for denial.

Commissioner Steinman moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City
Council for the General Plan Land Use Map Amendment portion of Project ZMA-25-002 based
on the Findings and Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated May 7, 2025.
Commissioner Poulsen seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Steinman-Yes;
Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

       3.3     Project ZMA-25-002 (Zoning Map Amendment) – A Public Hearing and
               Potential Recommendation to City Council on a Request by Adam Nash for a
               Zoning Map Amendment (Rezone) at 3526 East Fort Union Boulevard. The
               Applicant is Requesting a Change from R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family) to
               R-2-8 (Residential Multi-Family).

Commissioner Steinman moved to forward a recommendation of APPROVAL to the City
Council for the Zone Map Amendment portion of Project ZMA-25-002 based on the Findings
and Recommendations listed in the Staff Report dated May 7, 2025. Commissioner Poulsen
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;



Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                                        16
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes;
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Chair Anderson-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       3.4    Project ZTA-25-001 – A Public Hearing and Potential Recommendation to
              City Council on a City-Initiated Zoning Text Amendment to Codify a
              Definition for the Live-Work Land Use Type in City Code.

Chair Anderson reported that this item would be continued.

Commissioner Smith moved CONTINUE Project ZTA-25-001 to the June 4, 2025 Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Shelton seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Shelton-Yes; Commissioner Barnes-Yes; Commissioner Smith-Yes;
Commissioner Poulson-Yes; Commissioner Mills-Yes; Commissioner Steinman-Yes; Chair
Anderson-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0    Consent Agenda

       4.1    Approval of Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from April 16, 2025.

Commissioner Steinman moved to APPROVE the Consent Agenda. Commissioner Barnes
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.0    Adjourn.

Commissioner Smith moved to ADJOURN the Business Session. Commissioner Poulson
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Business Session adjourned at approximately 7:10 p.m.




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                            17
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the
Cottonwood Heights City Planning Commission Work Session and Business Session held on
Wednesday, May 7, 2025.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: _____________________________




Cottonwood Heights Planning Commission Meeting – 05/07/25                               18
