                                  MEETING MINUTES
                        ALTA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                         Wednesday, November 28th, 2023, 3:00 PM
                   Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah

PRESENT:                John Nepstad, Chair
                        Jeff Niermeyer, Vice-Chair
                        Rob Voye
                        Dave Abraham
                        Maren Askins
                        Roger Bourke, Town of Alta Mayor (ex-officio)

STAFF PRESENT: Chris Cawley, Interim Town Manager
               Jen Clancy, Town Clerk
               John Guldner, Cottonwood Lands Advisory
               Polly McLean, Town Attorney




                                                 T
OTHERS:
                               AF
    1. INTRODUCTION AND WELCOME FROM THE CHAIR

Planning Commission Chair Jon Nepstad opened the meeting at 3:05 PM.

    2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE OCTOBER 24, 2023 MEETING
          R
Planning Commission Member Jeff Niermeyer introduced a motion to approve the minutes
from the October 24, 2023 Alta Planning Commission Meeting. Planning Commission
Member Rob Voye seconded the motion, and the motion was passed with unanimous
consent of the commission.
         D


    3. Annual training on the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act

Polly McLean, Town Attorney walked the commission through the annual 30-minute training
and answered specific questions from commission members on the application of the Open &
Public Meetings Act and how the rules govern town business conducted by commission
members.

    4. Discussion of 2024 planning commission priorities and future projects

Chair Jon Nepstad wanted the group to identify topics to tackle in 2024. Jon asked that they use
this opportunity to only discuss topics and not use the time in this meeting to discuss the issues in
detail.
           a. General Plan Review: Dave Abraham suggested that the Commission look at the
               General Plan again, especially around transportation concerns. There had been
               some discussion in the past regarding the designation of a transportation hub in

Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 28, 2023                                                                                  1
                the town to better facilitate bus services. He also believed the commission should
                review parking options including the possibility of free parking for access to the
                town and that the Commission should review the recent UDOT EIS.

            b. UDOT Right of Way Assessment: Jon Nepstad- stated that one topic he would
               like to have considered in 2024 is a presentation by UDOT on the status of a
               project to perfect a right of way for SR 210. John Guldner described the history of
               the SR 210 right-of-way, which is essentially that a ROW has never been fully
               perfected by UDOT. John added that Alta Ski Area manages over 90 percent of
               the parking in Alta under their special use permit with Alta Ski Area. The paid
               reserved parking had several challenges. Chris Cawley agreed to ask UDOT to
               make a presentation on the SR210 right of way update.

            c. UTA Services: Rob Voye asked about UTA going from Goldminers’s Daughter
               to the Albion Base parking lot. Mayor Bourke stated that the 953 on Wasatch
               Blvd. is no longer running. Currently there is only one route now only stopping at
               Snowbird and GMD lot.




                                                T
            d. Shallow Shaft: Jon Nepstad asked if the commission would like to discuss
               possible solutions/options regarding the Shallow Shaft restaurant, its 3-year
                               AF
               vacancy, and possible economic development issues.

            e. Ski Around: Jon Nepstad mentioned that he would like to host a ski around with
               the commission at some point this season, possibly in April.

            f. Parking Discussion: Jon Nepstad would like to get an update to the Commission
               at some point on the parking reservation system and ratios that we are currently
          R
               using.

            g. Alta Subdivision Ordinance Update: Jon Nepstad asked about potential future
         D

               grants that could be used to pay for an update of the Alta subdivision ordinance in
               2024. The state is providing funding for each municipality in the way of technical
               support. This project will need to be scheduled through the planning commission.
               Chris Cawley stated that he did not believe this would be a large project.

            h. Employee Housing: John Guldner brought up the ongoing employee housing
               issue in the town as a possible future discussion item. Specifically, around
               challenges with the caretaker ordinance. There was an amendment to the
               ordinance that allowed the owner to use the caretaker unit under certain
               circumstances which makes the unit a de facto duplex. A new state law allows
               accessory dwelling units, and this ordinance reflects state law, but it undermines
               the town’s stated interest in preserving and developing new employee housing.

    5. DATE OF NEXT MEETING




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 28, 2023                                                                                    2
Jon Nepstad asked if there were any problems in keeping this ongoing meeting next for the 4th
Tuesday of the month going forward and other commission members agreed that this time
worked best. This sets the next planning commission meeting for January 23, 2024. The chair
requested that the next meeting be held in-person.

    6. MOTION TO ADJOURN

Planning Commission Member Rob Voye moved to adjourn the meeting. Planning
Commission Member Jeff Niermeyer seconded the motion, and the motion was carried with
unanimous consent of the commission.



Minutes Approved on February 27, 2024


__________________________




                                              T
Chris Cawley, Town Manager
                               AF
          R
         D




Alta Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
November 28, 2023                                                                               3
