Meeting Body: Emigration                                      SUMMARY
Canyon Planning Commission
                                     MSD staff have completed the first phases of the
Meeting Date: September 14,          Comprehensive Code Update Project. This is an
2023
                                     accumulation of an immense amount of employee and
Planner: Matthew Starley | Long      consultant time utilized to create a comprehensive code
Range Planner II                     update template. This template is now being utilized by
Project Name and File Number:        MSD communities to customize the code to match their
Code Ordinance Update Project        unique requirements.
Project Type:

     Repeal of Text Ordinance
                                     MSD Staff would like to work with the EC Planning
     Repeal and Replace of Text
     Ordinance
                                     Commission and Council to tailor the template to meet the
     Amend Text Ordinance            desires of the community as articulated in the EC General
     New Text Ordinance              Plan, and as articulated by the current governing bodies.
     Re-Zone / Map Revision

Areas Affected: Emigration
Canyon Metro Township
                                     This staff report is intended to give a summary of the
                                     entire code update project as proposed. We would like to
Key Findings:
                                     work with you to tailor the goals, expectations, and
• Code updates have reached a        timelines the project will entail. As a first step, staff have
  point in which community
                                     prepared a presentation that will help to outline and
  impute is required.
                                     orientate all project partners as to expectations regarding
• Staff are proposing a workshop
  to support PC and Council          the Code Update Project.
  input.
• Opportunities to introduce new
  zone within ECMT should be                                ATTACHMENTS
  discussed.
                                     The following attachments are included as supplementary
Staff Recommendation:                materials to the end of this staff report:
Prepared to discuss proposed         1.       EC_Code Update Presentation.pdf
project format, outline, and
timeline.

Prepare to discuss proposed new
zones.


                Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 1 of 6
                                            BACKGROUND

Project Purpose:

The Emigration Canyon code was adopted when Emigration Canyon became a Metro Township, as part
of creating the MSD, between 2015-2017. All the land use code previously regulating Emigration Canyon
was known as the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances. When Emigration Canyon was incorporated, the
Council adopted the Salt Lake County Code, including Title 19 and Title, to be the governing regulation for
the Metro Township.

The Emigration Canyon Metro Township, as part of their incorporation, included a Planning Commission
made up of volunteers who are residents of the community and chosen by the Emigration Canyon Council.
This group reviews land use applications, like conditional use permits and subdivisions, and they also
ensure that these applications are following the regulations in the land use code, Titles 18 & 19.

In 2021, the Emigration Canyon Council was in the process of adopting the first Emigration Canyon General
Plan. The general plan is a guiding document that helps to communicate the future goals and vision for
the Metro Township. The General Plan was adopted in March 2022. Now that the General Plan is in place
with a clear direction for the future. Emigration Canyon would like to perform a comprehensive code
update for Titles 18 & 19 of the Emigration Canyon Code.


Project Timeline:

A comprehensive code update process for Titles 18 & 19 took place between July 2022 and December
2022. During the period between September 2023 and March 2024, the Planning Commission and Council,
with the assistance of staff will have the opportunity to tailor the results of the comprehensive update to
meet the unique needs and desired character of Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

This process will be composed of three workshops in which the Planning Commission and Council
members will have an opportunity to give opinions on specific ordinance issues that may affect property
owners in the canyon. The entire code changes being proposed will be adopted at the end of the process
when all chapters have been thoroughly reviewed by the Planning Commission and Council.




Methodology:


                 Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 2 of 6
The comprehensive code update goals are as follows;
   1. To remove errors, inconsistencies, or ambiguity. This is to prevent Emigration Canyon’s land use
      code from being challenged in court and will also help build more defensible actions for the
      Planning Commission and Council when making land use decisions.
   2. To update from older, outdated practices. Some of the methods use in the land use code are
      outdated and can cause ambiguity. For example, the methods for measuring setbacks in the
      agricultural zone are to measure 8 feet on each side at a minimum or the sum of both
      measurements is equal to 18 feet. This means 9 feet may be allowed on one side and 9 on the
      other side but shall be no less than 8 feet on each side. This is unnecessarily confusing for property
      owners and can be challenged in court. As a solution, staff is recommending that this be updated
      to a minimum of 8 feet on each to create clear and concise standards.
   3. To make the code compatible with the new general plan. Emigration Canyon’s code currently
      has 13 zones. There are only 8 zones present in Emigration Canyon and the General Plan does
      envision the potential of the adoption of new zones. Staff is recommending this be changed to
      accurately reflect the vision in the General Plan.


Existing Conditions:

Remove Nonapplicable Zones: GIS Analysis
Staff is recommending that all zones not currently in use in Emigration Canyon be removed from the
Emigration Canyon code so long as the removal of the zone does not conflict with the General Plan. The
following GIS analysis was performed to analyze existing zones present in Emigration Canyon.

 Zone      Acres by Zone   Zone Description
 C-2                   9.8 Allows for the development of community commercial uses when zoning
                           criteria are met.

 R-M                     .09 Allows for high-density residential development, but also permits
                             agriculture. The minimum lot area is 5,000 sq ft for a single-family
                             residential unit, plus 750 sq ft per additional unit. Short-term rentals are
                             a conditional use.

 FR-0.5                257.8 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                             where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                             (Lot size 0.5 acre)

 FR-1                  598.2 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                             where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                             (Lot size 1 acre)

 FR-2.5                 19.7 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                             where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                             (Lot size 2.5 acre)

 FR-5                   96.9 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                             where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                             (Lot size 5 acre)

                Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 3 of 6
 FR-10               341.8 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                           where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                           (Lot size 10 acre)

 FR-20            10,200.7 Permits forestry, recreational, and single-family residential development
                           where such development will not damage natural and scenic resources.
                           (Lot size 20 acre)




                               Figure 1 Emigration Canyon Zoning Map, 2022

Proposed Solution:

Update Zones with Uses Compatible with the General Plan
All the zones recommended to be included in the comprehensive code update for Emigration Canyon have
been updated to include only uses that are compatible with the general plan uses that are subject to
requirements in state code. Staff recommends that the Council and Planning Commission consider the
addition of 2 new zone sections in the municipal code, while removing 5 non applied zones:

New Zones Sections for Consideration


                Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 4 of 6
    •   Open Space Zone
    •   Public Facilities Zone
    •   Public Institutions Zone
    •   Neighborhood Mixed-use Zone

Removed Zones
   • F-1 Forestry Zone
   • FR-50
   • FR-100
   • C-1 Commercial
   • C-2 Commercial

Key Revisions:

Revised Zones
   • All FR Zones
   • C-V Zone

Site Development Requirements
    • Site development requirements like construction, grading, application process etc. will be
        updated in the next phase of the comprehensive code update. The intent will be to ensure that
        the unique zone requires support FCOZ without duplication, adding only where necessary.
    • Parking and landscaping standards will be updated during the comprehensive code update.
    • The conditional use application process will be updated during the comprehensive code update.
    • Specific use standards will be updated during the comprehensive code update.

                                           STAFF ANALYSIS

Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:

Zone Summaries
Open Space Zone: The open space zone is a new zone that is proposed in the General Plan to help preserve
Emigration Canyon’s existing parks and open spaces. Rezoning existing park space to an open space zone
with no possibility for residential development will ensure the preservation of landmarks that are valuable
to the community.

Forestry Zone: The purpose of the provisions section has been updated to embody the spirit of all F zones
which promote the preservation of the natural land while allowing some, compact and compatible uses
that are accustomed in mountain communities.

Medium Density Residential Zone: Although there is currently one Residential Multi-family parcel in
Emigration Canyon it is beneficial for the community to keep this zone in the code and update the
development standards to be consistent with single-family zoning standards. Municipalities in Salt Lake
Valley are being required by the State to expand moderate-income housing options and many of the
options provided by the state include allowing medium-density residential housing in the City’s current
zoning ordinances.

Commercial Zones: There are three commercial properties in Emigration Canyon. In the General Plan,

                 Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 5 of 6
these properties are proposed to be preserved but may change the use to some other small-scale
commercial use compatible with the area. All the commercial development standards have been updated
to create modest, small-scale commercial should the property be redeveloped. Redevelopments within
the existing zones are not in the control of the Metro Township but the Metro Township has updated the
commercial to ensure that if new development occurs it will remain small and with minimal impact to
adjacent properties.

Public Facilities and Institutions Zones: This zone does not currently exist in within the code. It has been
included in this early draft of the Ordinance Update as a potential inclusion whose merits should be
discusses. Should the township at some point be interested in establishing some community resource
facility, the opportunity to apply a Public Facilities Zone to any associated parcel may be advantageous.

Update Uses for Compatibility with the General Plans
The uses in each zone have been updated to be compatible with the future visions for character areas in
the General Plan Land Use Element. Most future visioning done in the General Plan emphasizes the
preservation of existing neighborhood character and the ecological health and functionality of the canyon.
Uses typical in many commercial zones have been eliminated or made conditional in several cases to
reflect the ecological sensitivity of the geography of the township.

Integration of Stakeholder and Public Engagement:

At this point, staff has not received any feedback from the public regarding the comprehensive code
update.

Anticipated Impacts:

The impact of the code update process will affect all property owners within the municipality. The
proposed updates would require that some parcels in the municipality be rezoned to reflect the changes
made to the zone code. We anticipate very little pushback from property owners as on these changes as
this is an effort to better reflect the existing conditions in the codification and would not change the
expected use of the sites in question.

                                     STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
and Township Council review and provide feedback on the proposed Municipal Code Update Project.
Specifically on project objectives, goals, targets, and timelines.

                                              NEXT STEPS

As we enter the project process and timeline, MSD staff will supply staff reports outlining the issues and
code that will be addressed during project workshops. Workshop time will be used to allow Planning
Commission Members and Council Members to make recommendations as to how the proposed zones or
regulations can be improved to reflect the desired conditions for the municipality.




                 Municipal Code Ordinance Update Project | Staff Report | September 2023 | Page 6 of 6
