                                                  Execution Version




      COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM AGREEMENT

                            between

                    ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

                              and

 COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY AGENCY, TOWN OF ALTA, TOWN OF
  CASTLE VALLEY, COALVILLE CITY, CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS,
EMIGRATION CANYON TOWNSHIP, FRANCIS CITY, GRAND COUNTY, CITY OF
  HOLLADAY, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MILLCREEK, CITY OF MOAB,
  OAKLEY CITY, OGDEN CITY, PARK CITY, SALT LAKE CITY, SALT LAKE
       COUNTY, SUMMIT COUNTY, AND TOWN OF SPRINGDALE
                                                                 Execution Version


Table of Appendices:

   Appendix A – List of Communities

   Appendix B – Agreement for Payment of Third-Party Expertise

   Appendix C – Memorandum of Understanding

   Appendix D – Communication Information
                                                                             Execution Version


          COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM AGREEMENT

        This COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY PROGRAM AGREEMENT (this
“Agreement”), entered into this ____ day of _______________, 2023 (“Execution Date”), is
entered into between Rocky Mountain Power, an unincorporated division of PacifiCorp, an Oregon
corporation (the “Company”), the Community Renewable Energy Agency, an agency formed
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act (the “Agency”), and each of the towns, municipalities,
and counties listed in Appendix A hereto (individually, a “Community” and collectively the
“Communities”) (each party hereto sometimes referred to herein individually as a “Party” and
collectively as the “Parties”).

                                          RECITALS

      WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 411, codified at Utah
Code §§ 54-17-901 to -909, known as the “Community Renewable Energy Act”; and

        WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Public Service Commission of Utah to establish a
community renewable energy program whereby qualifying communities may cooperate with
qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from renewable energy
resources, in an amount that equals their annual consumption; and

      WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 (“Rules”); and

       WHEREAS, Company is a “qualified utility” as defined in Utah Code § 54-17-801;

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement with other eligible Communities to establish a decision-making
process for Program design, resource solicitation, resource acquisition, and other Program issues
and provides a means of ensuring that eligible Communities and those that become participating
Communities will be able to reach a single joint decision on any necessary Program issues. On
March 31, 2021, the Communities entered into such an agreement, entitled the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy
Program (“Governance Agreement”), through which each Community is a member of the Agency,
authorized under the Governance Agreement to make certain joint decisions on behalf of
Communities that participate in the Program; and

        WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the community in which the customer resides satisfies certain requirements, including,
adopting a resolution required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a); entering into an agreement with a
qualified utility as required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b); adopting a local ordinance as
required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(c); and complying with any other terms or conditions
required by the Commission; and
                                                                              Execution Version


      WHEREAS, each Community has passed a resolution stating a goal of achieving an
amount equivalent to 100% of the annual electric energy supply for participating customers from
renewable energy resources by 2030, as required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a); and

       WHEREAS, the Parties enter into this Agreement to satisfy the requirements of Utah Code
§ 54-17-903(2)(b) and to address various issues related to the Program.

       NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements
hereinafter contained, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Company,
Agency, and each Community hereby agree to the following terms and conditions:

                                          SECTION 1
                                         DEFINITIONS

        1.1   Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context, and when
the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:

“Act” means the Community Renewable Energy Act, codified by the Utah State Legislature at
Utah Code Ann. §§ 54-17-901 to -909, and as amended.

“Agency” has the meaning set forth in the opening paragraph of this Agreement.

“Application” means the application to be filed by the Company with the Commission seeking
approval of the Program, as contemplated by Utah Code § 54-17-904(1).

“Annexed Customer” means a retail electric customer of Company with an electric service address
located within an area annexed into a Participating Community after the Implementation Date,
beginning on the date that such person becomes an Eligible Customer.

“Business Day” means every day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day which is a legal holiday in
Utah on which banks are not generally open for business.

“Cancelation Date” means the last day of the applicable Cancelation Period.

“Cancelation Period” means the period during which a Participating Customer may opt-out of the
Program without incurring a Termination Fee. The Cancelation Period shall be:
      (a) for Participating Customers that were Eligible Customers on the Implementation Date,
           the three billing cycles immediately following the applicable Commencement Date; or
      (b) for Participating Customers that were not Eligible Customers on the Implementation
           Date, but became Eligible Customers after the Implementation Date, the later of (i) the
           period specified in (a), above, or (ii) the 60-day period immediately following the
           applicable Commencement Date for such customer.
                                                                               Execution Version


“Commencement Date” means the date on which an Eligible Customer becomes a Participating
Customer and begins paying Program Rates.               For each Participating Customer, the
Commencement Date shall be:
      (a) for Participating Customers that were Eligible Customers on the Implementation Date,
          the first day following the last day of the Implementation Period; or
      (b) for Participating Customers that were not Eligible Customers on the Implementation
          Date, but became Eligible Customers after the Implementation Date, the date the First
          Opt-out Notice is sent to such customer.

“Commission” means the Public Service Commission of Utah created in Utah Code § 54-1-1.

“Commission Approval” has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5 of this Agreement.

“Communication” has the meaning provided in Section 12 of this Agreement.

“Community” has the meaning set out in the opening paragraph of this Agreement.

“County” means the unincorporated area of a county of the State of Utah.

“Division” means the Division of Public Utilities created in Utah Code § 54-4a-1.

“Eligible Customer” means a Person that is (a) a customer of the Company receiving retail electric
service at a location within the boundary of a Participating Community, and (b) identified by the
Company with a Tax Identifier associated with a Participating Community, but excluding any
residential customer as specified in Utah Code §54-17-905(5) that is then receiving net metering
service from the Company under the Company’s Utah electric service Schedule 135. A Person
that is not an Eligible Customer as of the Implementation Date may become an Eligible Customer
after the Implementation Date by becoming either a New Customer or an Annexed Customer.

“Exit Notice” means a notice provided to the Company by an Exiting Customer that indicates the
Exiting Customer no longer wishes to participate in the Program, and that also includes the Exiting
Customer’s name, account number, service address, and the telephone number associated with the
account.

“Exiting Customer” means a Participating Customer that elects to terminate its participation in the
Program after the Cancelation Date applicable to that Participating Customer.

“First Opt-out Notice,” means the first notice to be provided by the Company to an Eligible
Customer, a New Customer, or an Annexed Customer pursuant to Utah Admin. Code Section
R746-314-301;

“Governance Agreement” has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.

“Governmental Authority” means any federal, state or other political subdivision thereof, having
jurisdiction over the Parties, including any municipality, township or county, and any entity or
body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or
                                                                              Execution Version


pertaining to government, including any corporation or other Person owned or controlled by any
of the foregoing; provided that the Communities and the Agency shall be deemed not to be a
“Governmental Authority” for purposes of this Agreement.

“Implementation Date” means the date following the Ordinance Deadline on which the First Opt-
out Notice is sent by Company to any Eligible Customer.

“Implementation Period” means the 60-day period beginning on the Implementation Date.

“Municipality” means a city or a town as defined in Utah Code § 10-1-104.

“New Customer” means a Person other than an Annexed Customer that becomes an Eligible
Customer within a Participating Community after the Implementation Date.

“Office” means the Office of Consumer Services created in Utah Code § 54-10a-101

“Opt-out Notice” means either the First Opt-out Notice or the Second Opt-out Notice, as well as
any in-person visits required by Utah Code § 54-17-905(1)(c).

“Ordinance” means an ordinance adopted by a Community that (a) establishes the Community’s
participation in the Program, and (b) is consistent with the terms of this Agreement, each as
required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(c) in order for a Community to become a Participating
Community.

“Ordinance Deadline” means the date that is either ninety (90) days after the date of Commission
Approval, or if such date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the next Business Day,
which date represents the date by which each Community must adopt the Ordinance, as required
by Utah Code § 54-17-903(3).

“Participating Community” means a Community that is a Municipality or a County in Utah and
that:
        (a) is a Party to this Agreement
        (b) has residents that are Participating Customers;
        (c) has adopted an Ordinance that is in full force and effect; and
        (d) otherwise meets the requirements of Utah Code § 54-17-903.

“Participating Customer” means a Person that is a customer of the Company that:
        (a) takes electrical service from the Company at an address located within the boundary of
            a Participating Community;
        (b) has not exercised the right to opt out of participation in the Program prior to the
            Commencement Date; and
        (c) has not become an Exiting Customer.

“Person” means an individual or any other legal entity.

“Program” means the community renewable energy program to be implemented by Company as
described in the Application, pursuant to the Act and as approved by the Commission.
                                                                                Execution Version



“Program Rates” means the rates and fees charged to Participating Customers and Exiting
Customers (a) intended to recover all costs and expenses incurred by the Company to implement
and operate the Program in accordance with Utah Code § 54-17-904(4); and (b) intended to be
utilized to help manage unanticipated Program costs and expenses, or to help offset the impacts of
customers exiting the program.

“Program Renewable Resource” means a Renewable Energy Resource procured to serve
Participating Customers

“Qualified Utility” means the Company.

“Replaced Asset” means an existing thermal energy resource that (a) was built or acquired, in
whole or in part, by the Company prior to the date of Commission Approval for the purpose of
serving the Company’s customers, including customers within a Participating Community; and (b)
is deemed to no longer serve Participating Customers.

“Requirements of Law” means any applicable federal, state and local law, statute, regulation, rule,
action, order, code or ordinance enacted, adopted, issued or promulgated by any Governmental
Authority (including those pertaining to electrical, building, zoning, environmental and wildlife
protection, and occupational safety and health); provided that Requirements of Law shall exclude
any law, statute, regulation, rule, action, order code or ordinance issued by the Communities or the
Agency to the extent not in conformity with the Program, Act, Rules, or this Agreement.

“Second Opt-out Notice,” means the second notice to be provided by the Company to an Eligible
Customer, a New Customer, or an Annexed Customer pursuant to Utah Admin. Code Section
R746-314-302.

“Tax Identifier” means an identifier used by the Company to designate meters and accounts that
are associated with specific municipal or county taxing districts.

“Termination Fee” means the fee, if any, to be assessed on and charged to an Exiting Customer
pursuant to the terms of the Program and in accordance with Utah Code § 54-17-905(3)(c) and
Utah Admin. Code Section R746-314-306.

        1.2    Rules of Interpretation; General. As of the Execution Date, and unless otherwise
required by the context in which any term appears: (a) the singular includes the plural and vice
versa; (b) references to “Sections” or “Appendices” are to sections of or appendices to this
Agreement; (c) “herein,” “hereof” and “hereunder” refer to this Agreement as a whole; (d) the
masculine includes the feminine and neuter and vice versa; (e) “including,” “includes,” and
“included” mean “including, without limitation” or “including, but not limited to”; (f) the word
“or” is not necessarily exclusive; (g) reference to “days,” “months” and “years” means calendar
days, months and years, respectively, unless expressly stated otherwise in this Agreement; and (h)
any notices or other items required to be delivered on a “day” that is not a Business Day shall be
required to be delivered on the next Business Day.
                                                                                Execution Version



       1.3      Terms Not to be Construed for or Against Either Party. Each term in this
Agreement must be construed according to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either
Party. In the event an ambiguity or question of intent or interpretation arises with respect to this
Agreement, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the Parties and no
presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any Party by virtue of authorship
of any of the provisions of this Agreement.

       1.4     Headings. The headings used for the sections of this Agreement are for
convenience and reference purposes only and in no way affect the meaning or interpretation of the
provisions of this Agreement.

                                       SECTION 2
                              TERM; CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

        2.1    Effective Date—Communities. This Agreement shall be effective as between
Company and each individual Community on the date that (a) the Agreement has been executed
and delivered by both the Company and such Community, (b) Commission Approval has been
obtained, and (c) such Community has enacted the Ordinance by the Ordinance Deadline (the
“Community Effective Date”). If any Community declines or fails to enact an Ordinance by the
Ordinance Deadline, this Agreement shall be terminated with respect to that Community, and
neither the Company nor that Community shall have or owe any rights or obligations to each other
with respect to this Agreement as of the Ordinance Deadline.

        2.2    Effective Date—Agency. This Agreement shall be effective as between the
Company and the Agency when (a) it has been executed and delivered by both the Company, at
least two (2) Communities, and the Agency, and (b) Commission Approval has been obtained (the
“Agency Effective Date”). If no Community enacts an Ordinance by the Ordinance Deadline, the
Agreement shall be terminated in its entirety, and neither the Company nor the Agency nor any
Community shall have or owe any rights or obligations to each other with respect to this Agreement
as of the Ordinance Deadline.

        2.3     Obligations Prior to Effective Date. Notwithstanding the provisions in Sections 2.1
and 2.2, prior to the Community Effective Date and the Agency Effective Date, those rights and
obligations hereunder expressly arising upon the Execution Date (including Sections 1.2 and the
defined terms in Section 1.1) shall be effective as of the Execution Date, and Appendix B and
Appendix C shall be effective as of the dates set forth in those agreements.

        2.4    Term. Unless earlier terminated as provided for herein, this Agreement shall
remain in effect so long as the Program is in effect and the Communities have residents who are
Eligible Customers or Participating Customers (the “Term”).

       2.5    Commission Approval or Denial. Commission Approval shall be deemed to have
been granted as of the date of a Commission order approving the Application. Commission
Approval shall be deemed to have been denied as of the date that the Commission issues an order
                                                                                Execution Version


declining to establish a Program as described in the Application, or an order requiring material
modifications to the Program as described in the Application that are not acceptable to Company
or Agency, each in its sole discretion.

        2.6     Termination in Event of Commission Denial. If Commission Approval is denied
pursuant to Section 2.5, the Agreement will terminate with respect to all Parties and all future
obligations of the Parties under this Agreement (other than the provisions which by their terms are
intended to survive the termination of this Agreement) shall be terminated without further liability
of any Party. Under no circumstances shall any Party have any liability to any other Party due to
a denial of Commission Approval.

        2.7    Community Participation Through Agency. Company shall implement only a
single Program, and the Communities shall participate in the Program through the Agency. The
Agency shall represent the Communities in all communications with Company pertaining to this
Agreement and the Program, including, without limitation, any necessary communications relating
to Program design and implementation, and solicitation and acquisition of Renewable Energy
Resources for the Program. Notwithstanding the forgoing, or anything else in this Agreement to
the contrary, the Communities shall be individually responsible for the obligations imposed
pursuant to Section 5.2 and Utah Code § 54-17-905(6)(a), and the Agency shall have no financial
obligations on behalf of any Community except those identified in Appendix B and Appendix C
hereto.

                                           SECTION 3

                                          [RESERVED]

                                 SECTION 4
              STIPULATION OF PAYMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY EXPERTISE

         4.1     Stipulation of Payment for Third-Party Expertise. On July 25, 2022, the Agency
(acting on behalf of the Communities) and the Company entered into the Agreement for Payment
of Third-Party Expertise to address payment by the Communities to the Company for third-party
expertise contracted for by the Division of Public Utilities and the Office of Consumer Services as
required by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A). A true and correct copy of the Agreement for
Payment of Third-Party Expertise is attached hereto as Appendix B. Also on July 25, 2022, each
of the Company, the Agency, the Division of Public Utilities, and the Office of Consumer Services
entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to facilitate the payments contemplated in the
Agreement for Payment of Third-Party Expertise. A true and correct copy of the Memorandum of
Understanding is attached hereto as Appendix C. The Parties reiterate and reaffirm their respective
covenants and obligations set forth in the Agreement for Payment of Third-Party Expertise and the
Memorandum of Understanding. Payments made to the Company pursuant to the Agreement for
Payment of Third-Party Expertise shall be facilitated by the Agency consistent with and pursuant
to the terms of this Agreement. The Parties further agree that the Agreement for Payment of Third-
Party Expertise, the Memorandum of Understanding, and this Section 4.1 satisfy the Parties’
respective obligations under Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A).
                                                                             Execution Version


                                SECTION 5
           STIPULATION OF PAYMENT FOR CUSTOMER OPT-OUT NOTICES

        5.1    Notices. The Company will provide, in a form approved by the Commission, the
Opt-out Notices to Eligible Customers, New Customers, and Annexed Customers at the times and
in the form required by Requirements of Law and the Commission.

        5.2    Stipulation of Payment for Opt-out Notices as of Implementation Date. The actual
costs incurred by the Company in providing the Opt-out Notices (including any in person visits,
as required by Utah Code § 54-17-905(1)(c)) to Eligible Customers within the Participating
Communities as of the Implementation Date shall be paid by the Participating Community in
which each such Eligible Customer is located. Each Participating Community shall pay to the
Company its actual cost of providing these Opt-out Notices, as set forth herein:

The Company shall within one hundred eighty (180) days of the Implementation Date send one or
more invoices to each Participating Community for the actual costs of providing Opt-out Notices
to the Eligible Customers as of the Implementation Date in each such Participating Community.
Each invoice shall identify actual cost of providing the Opt-out Notices and in person visits, as
required by Utah Code § 54-17-903, to Company’s Eligible Customers in the Participating
Community, the total number of Eligible Customers to which the Opt-out Notices were provided
within the Participating Community, and the Company’s average cost per Opt-out Notice. The
Company shall send a copy of each such invoice to the Agency. Within thirty (30) days of its
receipt of any such invoice, each Participating Community shall provide payment to the Company
for the amount of any invoiced costs it does not dispute and a written response identifying any
costs in dispute.

       5.3     Dispute Resolution. Disputes regarding the amount of invoices from the Company
outlined in Section 5.2 swill be resolved pursuant to Section 21.

                                         SECTION 6

                                         [RESERVED]

                                       SECTION 7
                                    TERMINATION FEES

        7.1     Unpaid Termination Fees. Any Termination Fees that remain unpaid to Company
upon dissolution of the Program and/or termination of this Agreement shall not be the obligation
of Company, but shall be paid to Company as provided by the Commission and the Program. The
Parties agree that this Section 7.1 satisfies the obligations of Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(ii).

                                         SECTION 8

                                         [RESERVED]
                                                                              Execution Version


                                        SECTION 9
                                     REPLACED ASSET

        9.1    No Initially Proposed Replaced Asset. As of the Execution Date of this Agreement,
the Communities do not identify any initially proposed Replaced Asset, as that term is defined
herein and in Utah Code § 54-17-902(15). The Parties agree that this Section 9.1 satisfies the
obligations of Utah Code § 54-17-903(b)(iii).

                             SECTION 10
        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES; DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES

        10.1 Representations and Warranties of Agency. The Agency represents and warrants
that as of the Execution Date, and throughout the Term:

              (a)     The Governance Agreement is in full force and effect;

              (b)     It is duly formed and validly existing pursuant to the Governance
       Agreement and in conformance with the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Section
       11-13-101 through 11-13-608, for the purpose of taking joint or cooperative action
       pursuant to Utah Code Section 11-13-202(1)(a);

               (c)    It has the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this
       Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the
       terms hereof, and has funds sufficient to meet its reasonably anticipated financial
       obligations under this Agreement;

              (d)    It has authority to make decisions regarding aspects of Program
       administration consistent with the Governance Agreement and that each of the
       Communities has agreed to be bound by such decisions, provided, however, that any
       amendment of this Agreement shall be made only in writing executed by each of the Parties
       hereto. For the avoidance of doubt, the Agency does not have authority to bind the
       Communities on matters outside the scope of the authority granted to the Agency in the
       Governance Agreement;

               (e)     The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Agency and the
       performance of its obligations in this Agreement does not and will not contravene or result
       in a violation or breach of or default under any provision of its organizational documents,
       the Governance Agreement, any indenture, mortgage, security instrument or undertaking,
       or other material agreement to which it is a party or by which its assets are bound, or any
       Requirements of Law applicable to it; and

               (f)    This Agreement is its valid and legally binding obligation, enforceable
       against Agency in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, except as enforceability
       may be limited by Utah law and applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting
       the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and general principles of equity.
                                                                               Execution Version


       10.2 Representations and Warranties of Communities. Each Community represents and
warrants that as of the Execution Date and throughout the Term:

               (a)     It is a party to the Governance Agreement, and the Governance Agreement
      is in full force and effect;

              (b)   It is a Municipality or County duly formed and validly existing pursuant to
      and in conformance with the laws of the State of Utah;

               (c)     It has the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this
      Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the
      terms hereof, and has taken all actions necessary to appropriate funds sufficient to meet its
      reasonably anticipated financial obligations under this Agreement; provided, however,
      that, to the extent not already appropriated, all financial commitments by the Communities
      shall be subject to the appropriation of funds approved by the legislative bodies of each
      Community, as applicable, and the limitations on future budget commitments provided
      under applicable Utah law, including the Utah Constitution;

              (d)    It has authorized the Agency to make decisions regarding aspects of
      Program administration consistent with the Governance Agreement and that such decisions
      by the Agency bind the Community in connection with this Agreement, provided, however,
      that any amendment of this Agreement shall be made only in writing executed by each of
      the Parties hereto. For the avoidance of doubt, the Agency has authority to bind the
      Community only (1) on decisions within the scope of the authority granted to the Agency
      in the Governance Agreement, and (2) for so long as the Community remains a member of
      the Agency;

              (e)     The execution and delivery of this Agreement by it, and the performance of
      its obligations in this Agreement does not and will not contravene or result in a violation
      or breach of or default under any provision of its organizational documents, the
      Governance Agreement, any indenture, mortgage, security instrument or undertaking, or
      other material agreement to which it is a party or by which its assets are bound, or any
      Requirements of Law applicable to it; and

              (f)     This Agreement is its valid and legally binding obligation, enforceable
      against it in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, except as enforceability may be
      limited by Utah law and applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the
      enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and general principles of equity.

        10.3 Representations and Warranties of Company. Company represents and warrants
that as of the Execution Date and throughout the Term:

              (a)    It is duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws
      of the State of its incorporation. It is duly qualified or licensed to do business and is in
      good standing in all jurisdictions in which the execution and delivery of this Agreement
      and performance of its obligations under this Agreement makes qualification necessary,
                                                                                Execution Version


       except where the failure to be so qualified, licensed or in good standing would not
       reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect its ability to perform its
       obligations under this Agreement.

              (b)    It has the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this
       Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the
       terms hereof.

               (c)    It has taken all corporate actions required to be taken by it to authorize the
       execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the
       transactions contemplated hereby.

               (d)     The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the performance of its
       obligations in this Agreement does not and will not contravene or result in a violation or
       breach of or default under any provision of its organizational documents, any indenture,
       mortgage, security instrument or undertaking, or other material agreement to which it is a
       party or by which its assets are bound, or any Requirement of Law applicable to it.

               (e)   This Agreement is its valid and legally binding obligation, enforceable
       against Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, except as enforceability
       may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the
       enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and general principles of equity.

        10.4 Defaults. An event of default (“Event of Default”) shall occur with respect to a
Party (the “Defaulting Party”) upon the occurrence of any of the following events and the
expiration of any applicable cure period provided for below:

              (a)      The Defaulting Party fails to make a payment when due under this
       Agreement and such failure is not cured within ten (10) Business Days after the other Party
       gives notice to the Defaulting Party of such non-performance.

               (b)    The Defaulting Party breaches one of its representations or warranties in
       this Agreement (other than those representations or warranties identified in Section 10.4(c)
       or Section 10.4(d)) and such breach is not cured within thirty (30) days after the other Party
       gives the Defaulting Party notice of such breach; provided, however, that if such breach is
       not reasonably capable of being cured within the thirty (30) day cure period but is
       reasonably capable of being cured within ninety (90) days, then the Defaulting Party will
       have an additional reasonable period of time to cure the breach, not to exceed ninety (90)
       days following the date of such notice of breach, provided that the Defaulting Party
       provides to the other Party a remediation plan within fifteen (15) days following the date
       of such notice of breach and the Defaulting Party promptly commences and diligently
       pursues the remediation plan.

              (c)     The Agency breaches its representations or warranties in Section 10.1(a) or
       Section 10.1(b).
                                                                               Execution Version


              (d)     A Community breaches its representations or warranties in Section 10.2(a),
       Section 10.2(b) or Section 10.2(d).

               (e)    The Company breaches its representations or warranties in Section 10.3(a)
       or Section 10.3(b).

               (f)    The Defaulting Party fails to perform any material obligation in this
       Agreement for which an exclusive remedy is not provided in this Agreement and which is
       not otherwise an identified Event of Default in this Agreement, and such non-performance
       is not cured within thirty (30) days after the other Party gives the Defaulting Party notice
       of such non-performance; provided, however, that if such non-performance is not
       reasonably capable of being cured within the thirty (30) day cure period but is reasonably
       capable of being cured within ninety (90) days, then the Defaulting Party will have an
       additional reasonable period of time to cure such non-performance, not to exceed ninety
       (90) days following the date of such notice of non-performance, provided that the
       Defaulting Party provides to the other Party a remediation plan within fifteen (15) days
       following the date of such notice of non-performance and the Defaulting Party promptly
       commences and diligently pursues such remediation plan.

        10.5 Termination and Remedies. Except as limited by Section 2.5 of this Agreement,
and except where a remedy is expressly described herein as a Party’s sole or exclusive remedy,
from the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the non-Defaulting Party
will be entitled to all remedies available at law or in equity, and may terminate this Agreement as
to the Defaulting Party by written notice delivered to the Defaulting Party designating the date of
termination no less than fifteen (15) days before such termination date. The notice required under
this Section 10.5 may be provided in the notice of non-performance delivered pursuant to Section
10.4(b) or Section 10.4(f) (and does not have to be a separate notice), provided it complies with
the terms of this Section 10.5.

        10.6 Duty/Right to Mitigate. Each Party agrees that it has a duty to mitigate damages
and may use commercially reasonable efforts to minimize any damages it may incur as a result of
the other Party’s non-performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

     10.7 Limitation of Liability. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE
CONTRARY IN THIS AGREEMENT, NO PARTY WILL BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER
PARTY FOR SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, WHETHER SUCH DAMAGES ARE ALLOWED OR PROVIDED BY
CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY, STATUTE
OR OTHERWISE.

                                         SECTION 11
                                       FORCE MAJEURE

       11.1 Definition of Force Majeure. “Force Majeure” or an “event of Force Majeure”
means an event or circumstance that prevents a Party (the “Affected Party”) from performing, in
whole or in part, an obligation under this Agreement and that: (a) is not reasonably anticipated by
                                                                                  Execution Version


the Affected Party as of the Execution Date; (b) is not within the reasonable control of the Affected
Party or its Affiliates; (c) is not the result of the negligence or fault or the failure to act by the
Affected Party or its Affiliates; and (d) could not be overcome or its effects mitigated by the use
of due diligence by the Affected Party or its Affiliates. Force Majeure includes the following types
of events and circumstances (but only to the extent that such events or circumstances satisfy the
requirements in the preceding sentence): tornado, hurricane, tsunami, flood, earthquake and other
acts of God; fire; explosion; invasion, acts of terrorism, war (declared or undeclared) or other
armed conflict (except as excluded below); riot, revolution, insurrection or similar civil
disturbance; global pandemic (except as excluded below); sabotage; strikes, walkouts, lock-outs,
work stoppages, or other labor disputes; and action or restraint by Governmental Authority (except
as excluded below); provided that the Affected Party has not applied for or assisted in the
application for, and has opposed to the extent reasonable, such action or restraint. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, none of the following shall constitute Force Majeure: (i) economic hardship,
including lack of money or the increased cost of electricity, steel, labor, or transportation; (ii) the
imposition upon a Party of costs or taxes; and (iii) the occurrence after the Execution Date, of an
enactment, promulgation, modification or repeal of one or more Requirements of Law, including
regulations or national defense requirements that affects the cost or ability of either Party to
perform under this Agreement.

        11.2 Suspension of Performance. Neither Party will be liable for any delay in or failure
to perform its obligations under this Agreement, nor will any such delay or failure become an
Event of Default, to the extent such delay or failure is substantially caused by Force Majeure,
provided that the Affected Party: (a) provides prompt (and, in any event, not more than ten (10)
days’) notice following knowledge of the impact of such event of Force Majeure to the other Party,
describing the particulars of the event of Force Majeure and giving an estimate of its expected
duration and the probable impact on the performance of its obligations under this Agreement; (b)
exercises all reasonable efforts to continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement; (c)
uses commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the impact of such event of Force Majeure so that
the suspension of performance is no greater in scope and no longer in duration than is dictated by
the event of Force Majeure; (d) exercises all reasonable efforts to mitigate or limit damages to the
other Party resulting from the event of Force Majeure; and (e) provides prompt notice to the other
Party of the cessation of the event of Force Majeure.

        11.3 Force Majeure Does Not Affect Other Obligations. No obligations of either Party
that arose before an event of Force Majeure or after an event of Force Majeure that were unaffected
by such event of Force Majeure shall be excused by such event of Force Majeure.

        11.4 Strikes. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary,
neither Party will be required to settle any strike, walkout, lockout, work stoppage or other labor
dispute on terms which, in the sole judgment of the Party involved in the strike, walkout, lockout
or other labor dispute, are contrary to its best interests.

        11.5 Right to Terminate. If an event of Force Majeure prevents an Affected Party from
substantially performing its obligations under this Agreement for a period exceeding one hundred
eighty (180) consecutive days (despite the Affected Party’s diligent efforts to remedy its inability
to perform), then the other Party may terminate this Agreement by giving ten (10) days prior notice
                                                                                 Execution Version


to the Affected Party; provided, however, that the effectiveness of any such termination notice
shall be conditioned on review and approval by the Commission. Upon such termination, neither
Party will have any liability to the other Party with respect to the period following the effective
date of such termination; provided, however, that this Agreement will remain in effect to the extent
necessary to facilitate the settlement of all liabilities and obligations arising under this Agreement
before the effective date of such termination.

                                     SECTION 12
                              COMMUNICATIONS AND NOTICE

          12.1 Addresses and Delivery Methods. All notices (other than Opt-out Notices),
requests, demands, submittals, waivers and other communications required or permitted to be
given by one Party to another Party under this Agreement (each, a “Communication”) shall, unless
expressly specified otherwise, be in writing and shall be addressed, except as otherwise stated
herein, to the addressees and addresses set out in Appendix D, as the same may be modified from
time to time by Communication from the respective Party to the other Parties. All other
Communications required by this Agreement shall be sent by regular first class U.S. mail,
registered or certified U.S. mail (postage paid return receipt requested), overnight courier delivery,
or electronic mail. Such Communications will be deemed effective and given upon receipt by the
addressee, except that Communications transmitted by electronic mail shall be deemed effective
and given on the day (if a Business Day and, if not, on the next following Business Day) on which
it is transmitted if transmitted before 17:00 Prevailing Mountain Time, and if transmitted after that
time, on the following Business Day, provided that Communications transmitted by electronic mail
must be confirmed as received by the recipient or followed up by Communications by other means
as provided for in this Section to be effective. If any Communication sent by regular first class
U.S. mail, registered or certified U.S. mail postage paid return receipt requested, or overnight
courier delivery is tendered to an addressee set out in Appendix D, as the same may be modified
from time to time by Communication from the respective Party to the other Party, and the delivery
thereof is refused by such addressee, then such Communication shall be deemed given and
effective upon such tender. In addition, Communication of termination of this Agreement under
Section 10.5 must contain the information required by Section 10.5 and, where Company is the
Defaulting Party, must be sent to the attention of the then-current President and General Counsel
of Company.

                                         SECTION 13
                                       CONFIDENTIALITY

       13.1 Confidential Business Information. The following constitutes “Confidential
Business Information,” whether oral or written: (a) the Parties’ proposals and negotiations
concerning this Agreement, made or conducted prior to the Effective Date; (b) drafts of the
Program Application; and (c) any information delivered by Company to the Agency and
Communities prior to or after the Execution Date relating to procurement of Program resources,
including but not limited to Company information relating to the terms of agreements under which
Company may procure Program resources. Communities and Company each agree to hold such
Confidential Business Information wholly confidential, except as expressly provided in this
Agreement. “Confidential Business Information” shall not include information that: (i) is in or
                                                                                 Execution Version


enters the public domain through no fault of the Party receiving such information; or (ii) was in
the possession of the receiving Party prior to delivery by the delivering party, other than through
delivery thereof as specified in subsections (a) and (b) above. A Party providing any Confidential
Business Information under this Agreement shall clearly mark all pages of all documents and
materials to be treated as Confidential Business Information with the term “Confidential” on the
front of each page, document or material. If the Confidential Business Information is transmitted
by electronic means the title or subject line shall indicate the information is Confidential Business
Information. All Confidential Business Information shall be maintained as confidential, pursuant
to the terms of this Section 13, for a period of two (2) years from the date it is received by the
receiving Party unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties.

         13.2 Duty to Maintain Confidentiality. Each Party agrees not to disclose Confidential
Business Information to any other Person (other than its Affiliates, accountants, auditors, counsel,
consultants, investors or prospective investors (including tax equity investors), Lenders or
prospective Lenders, employees, officers and directors, or Customer), without the prior written
consent of the other Party; provided that: (a) either Party may disclose Confidential Business
Information, if and to the extent such disclosure is required: (i) by Requirements of Law or
securities exchange requirement; (ii) in order for Company to receive regulatory recovery of
expenses related to this Agreement; (iii) pursuant to an order of a Governmental Authority; or (iv)
in order to enforce this Agreement or to seek approval hereof; and (b) notwithstanding any other
provision hereof, Company may in its sole discretion disclose or otherwise use for any purpose in
its sole discretion the Confidential Business Information described in Section 13.1(b). In the event
a Party is required by Requirements of Law to disclose Confidential Business Information, such
Party shall to the extent possible promptly notify the other Party of the obligation to disclose such
information.

        13.3 Company Regulatory Compliance. The Parties acknowledge that Company is
required by law or regulation to report certain information that is or could otherwise embody
Confidential Business Information from time to time. Such reports include models, filings, reports
of Company’s net power costs, general rate case filings, power cost adjustment mechanisms,
FERC-required reporting such as those made on FERC Form 1 or Form 714, market power and
market monitoring reports, annual state reports that include resources and loads, integrated
resource planning reports, reports to entities such as NERC, WECC, Pacific Northwest Utility
Coordinating Committee, WREGIS, or similar or successor organizations, forms, filings, or
reports, the specific names of which may vary by jurisdiction, along with supporting
documentation. Additionally, in regulatory proceedings in all state and federal jurisdictions in
which it does business, Company will from time to time be required to produce Confidential
Business Information. Company may use its business judgment in its compliance with all of the
foregoing and the appropriate level of confidentiality it seeks for such disclosures. Company may
submit Confidential Business Information in regulatory proceedings without notice to Seller.

       13.4 Agency and Communities’ GRAMA Compliance. Company acknowledges that
Agency and Communities are subject to the Utah Government Records Access and Management
Act, Utah Code Ann., Section 63G-2-101 to -901, as amended (“GRAMA”); that certain records
within Agency’s and Communities’ possession or control may be subject to public disclosure; and
that Agency’s and Communities’ confidentiality obligations in this Agreement shall be subject in
                                                                                 Execution Version


all respects to compliance with GRAMA; and that Agency and Communities may be required by
law to produce certain information that is or could otherwise embody Confidential Business
Information. Pursuant to Section 63G-2-309 of GRAMA, any Confidential Business Information
provided to Agency and Communities that Company believes should be protected from disclosure
must be accompanied by a written claim of confidentiality and a concise statement of reasons
supporting such claim. The Agency and the Communities may use their best judgment in their
compliance with GRAMA. The Agency and Communities may produce Confidential Business
Information in response to a valid GRAMA request without notice to Company.

        13.5 Irreparable Injury; Remedies. Each Party agrees that violation of the terms of this
Section 13 constitutes irreparable harm to the other Party, and that the harmed Party may seek any
and all remedies available to it at law or in equity, including injunctive relief.

      13.6 NEWS RELEASES AND PUBLICITY. BEFORE ANY PARTY ISSUES
ANY NEWS RELEASE OR PUBLICLY DISTRIBUTED PROMOTIONAL MATERIAL
THAT MENTIONS THE PROGRAM OR ANY ASPECT OF PROGRAM
ADMINISTRATION, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE PROCUREMENT OF
RENEWABLE ENERGY RESOURCES FOR PURPOSES OF SERVING
PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS, SUCH PARTY WILL FIRST PROVIDE A COPY
THEREOF TO ALL OTHER PARTIES (OR IN THE CASE OF PROMOTIONAL
MATERIALS PREPARED BY THE COMPANY, TO THE AGENCY) FOR REVIEW
AND APPROVAL, WHICH APPROVAL SHALL NOT BE UNREASONABLY
WITHHELD, CONDITIONED OR DELAYED, AND SHALL BE DEEMED PROVIDED
IF THE REVIEWING PARTY DOES NOT PROVIDE RESPONSE WITHIN FIVE (5)
BUSINESS DAYS. ANY USE OF BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY’S NAME REQUIRES
COMPANY’S PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT. FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT,
THIS SECTION 13.6 DOES NOT AFFECT THE ABILITY OF ANY PARTY FROM
DISCUSSING THE PROGRAM OR ANY ASPECT OF PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
DURING OPEN MEETINGS OR IN RESPONSE TO INQUIRIES BY CONSTITUENTS,
CUSTOMERS, OR THE MEDIA, AND DOES NOT RESTRICT ANY PARTY’S
STATEMENTS (WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL) BEFORE THE UTAH PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION.

                                          SECTION 14
                                        DISAGREEMENTS

         14.1 Negotiations. Prior to proceeding with formal dispute resolution, the Parties must
first attempt in good faith to resolve informally all disputes arising out of, related to or in
connection with this Agreement. Any Party may give the other Party notice of any dispute not
resolved in the normal course of business. Executives of both Parties at levels one level above
those employees who have previously been involved in the dispute must meet at a mutually
acceptable time and place within ten (10) days after delivery of such notice, and thereafter as often
as they reasonably deem necessary, to exchange relevant information and to attempt to resolve the
dispute. If the matter has not been resolved within thirty (30) days after the referral of the dispute
to such executives, or if no meeting of such executives has taken place within fifteen (15) days
after such referral, then, subject to the terms of this Agreement either Party may initiate any legal
                                                                                  Execution Version


remedies available to the Party. No statements of position or offers of settlement made in the
course of the dispute process described in this Section 14.1 will: (a) be offered into evidence for
any purpose in any litigation between the Parties; (b) be used in any manner against either Party
in any such litigation; or (c) constitute an admission or waiver of rights by either Party in
connection with any such litigation. At the request of either Party, any such statements and offers
of settlement, and all copies thereof, will be promptly returned to the Party providing the same.

        14.2 Choice of Forum. Each Party irrevocably consents and agrees that any legal action
or proceeding arising out of this Agreement or the actions of the Parties leading up to this
Agreement (“Proceedings”) will be brought exclusively in the Third Judicial District Court in and
for Salt Lake County, State of Utah. By execution and delivery of this Agreement, each Party: (a)
accepts the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts and waives any objection that it may now or
hereafter have to the exercise of personal jurisdiction by such courts over each Party for the
purpose of the Proceedings; (b) irrevocably agrees to be bound by any final judgment (after any
and all appeals) of any such courts arising out of the Proceedings; (c) irrevocably waives, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of
venue of any of the Proceedings brought in such courts (including any claim that any such
Proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum) in connection herewith; (d) agrees that
service of process in any such Proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, to such Party at its address stated in this Agreement; and (e)
agrees that nothing in this Agreement affects the right to effect service of process in any other
manner permitted by law.

         14.3 Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement shall not be construed to create rights
in, or to grant remedies to, any third party as a beneficiary of this Agreement or any duty, obligation
or undertaking established herein.

                                          SECTION 15
                                        MISCELLANEOUS

        15.1 Agency and Communities as Political Subdivisions of the State of Utah. Company
acknowledges that Agency and Communities are Political Subdivisions of the State of Utah under
the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann., Section 63G-7-101 et seq., as amended
(“Immunity Act”). Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver by Agency or
Communities of any protections, rights, remedies, or defenses applicable to Agency of
Communities under the Immunity Act, including without limitation, the provisions of Section
63G-7-604 regarding limitation on judgments, or other applicable law. It is not the intent of
Agency or Communities to incur by contract any liability for the operations, acts, or omissions of
Company or any third party and nothing in this Agreement shall be so interpreted or construed.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and notwithstanding any provisions to the
contrary in this Agreement, the obligations of Agency and Communities in this Agreement to
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless are subject to the Immunity Act, are limited to the amounts
established in Section 63G-7-604 of the Immunity Act, and are further limited only to claims that
arise directly and solely from the negligent acts or omissions of Agency or Communities.
                                                                                  Execution Version


       15.2 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will
be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts will together constitute but one and the same
instrument. Company, Agency, and Communities may retain duplicate copies of this Agreement,
which will be considered equivalent to this original.

       15.3 Several Obligations. Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to create an
association, trust, partnership or joint venture or to impose a trust, partnership or fiduciary duty on
or between any of the Parties.

       15.4 Choice of Law. This Agreement will be interpreted and enforced in accordance
with the laws of the State of Utah, without applying any choice of law rules that may direct the
application of the laws of another jurisdiction.

        15.5 Partial Invalidity. Without limiting Section 10.7 of this Agreement, if any term,
provision or condition of this Agreement is held to be invalid, void or unenforceable by a
Governmental Authority and such holding is subject to no further appeal or judicial review, then
such invalid, void, or unenforceable term, provision or condition shall be deemed severed from
this Agreement and all remaining terms, provisions and conditions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect. The Parties shall endeavor in good faith to replace such invalid,
void or unenforceable terms, provisions or conditions with valid and enforceable terms, provisions
or conditions which achieve the purpose intended by the Parties to the greatest extent permitted by
law and preserve the balance of the economics and equities contemplated by this Agreement in all
material respects.

       15.6 Non-Waiver. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement will be effective unless
the waiver is provided in writing that (a) expressly identifies the provision being waived and (b)
is executed by the Party waiving the provision. A Party’s waiver of one or more failures by the
other Party in the performance of any of the provisions of this Agreement will not be construed as
a waiver of any other failure or failures, whether of a like kind or different nature.

        15.7 Restriction on Assignments. Except as provided in this Section 17.1, no Party may
transfer, sell, pledge, encumber or assign (collectively, “Assign”) this Agreement nor any of its
rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Parties,
each in its own discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company may Assign the Agreement
to an affiliate of Company, provided that such assignee accepts Company’s obligations under this
Agreement in writing. Upon acceptance of Company’s obligations by any such assignee,
Company shall be released from all obligations or liabilities under this Agreement.

         15.8 Entire Agreement; Amendments. Except as expressly set forth herein, this
Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, proposals, representations, negotiations, discussions
or letters, whether oral or in writing, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement. No
amendment or modification of this Agreement is effective unless it is in writing and executed by
all Parties.

                           [Remainder of Page Left Intentionally Blank]
                                                Execution Version


EMIGRATION CANYON TOWNSHIP   FRANCIS CITY


By:                          By:

Name:                        Name:

Title:                       Title:

GRAND COUNTY                 CITY OF HOLLADAY


By:                          By:

Name:                        Name:

Title:                       Title:

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP        MILLCREEK


By:                          By:

Name:                        Name:

Title:                       Title:

CITY OF MOAB                 OAKLEY CITY


By:                          By:

Name:                        Name:

Title:                       Title:
                                        Execution Version


OGDEN CITY           PARK CITY


By:                  By:

Name:                Name:

Title:               Title:

SALT LAKE CITY       SALT LAKE COUNTY


By:                  By:

Name:                Name:

Title:               Title:

TOWN OF SPRINGDALE   SUMMIT COUNTY


By:                  By:

Name:                Name:

Title:               Title:
                                                   Execution Version



                                 Appendix A
                             List of Communities


Town of Alta
Town of Castle Valley
Coalville City
City of Cottonwood Heights
Emigration Canyon Township
Francis City
Grand County
City of Holladay
Kearns Metro Township
Millcreek
City of Moab
Oakley City
Ogden City
Park City
Salt Lake City
Salt Lake County
Town of Springdale
Summit County
                                                 Execution Version


                 Appendix B
Agreement for Payment of Third-Party Expertise
           AGREEMENT FOR PAYMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY EXPERTISE
                                           between
                  COMMUNITY RENEWABLE ENERGY AGENCY
                                              and
                              ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
This AGREEMENT FOR PAYMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY EXPERTISE (this “Agreement”) is
entered into by and between the Community Renewable Energy Agency (“Agency”) and Rocky
Mountain Power, an unincorporated division of PacifiCorp, an Oregon corporation (the
“Company”) (the Agency and the Company are each a “Party” and are referred to herein
collectively as the “Parties”).

                                         RECITALS

A.    In 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted H.B. 411 that was codified at Utah Code Ann.
      § 54-17-901 et seq. and is known as the “Community Renewable Energy Act” (“Act”).

B.    The Act authorizes a community renewable energy program (“Program”) to be proposed
      in an application (“Application”) to be filed by a qualified utility for approval by the
      Commission. The Company is the qualified utility relevant to this Program.

C.    Upon Commission approval of the Program, the Company will be authorized to provide
      electric service from one or more “renewable energy resources” as defined by the Act
      (“Renewable Resources”) to end-use customers within the Participating Communities that
      participate in the Program (“Participating Communities”).

D.    The Act sets forth various requirements for a municipality, county or town (“Community”)
      that seeks to enable the Company to provide electric service pursuant to the Program to
      end-use customers located within the Community. These include:

      1.     Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), the Community must adopt a resolution
             no later than December 31, 2019, that states a goal of achieving an amount
             equivalent to 100% of the annual electric energy supply for participating customers
             from a renewable energy resource by 2030 (“Program Resolution”);

      2.     Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A), the Community must enter into an
             agreement with a qualified utility with the stipulation of payment by the
             Community to the qualified utility for the costs of third-party expertise contracted
             for by the Division of Public Utilities (“Division”) and the Office of Consumer
             Services (“Office”), for assistance with activities associated with initial approval of
             the Program (“Third-Party Expertise Agreement”);



                                               1
E.     The Act, as supplemented by rules adopted by the Commission and set forth at Utah
       Administrative Code R746-314 (“Rules”), require the Communities that adopted the
       Program Resolution to adopt a governance agreement to establish a decision-making
       process to ensure that the Communities will be able to reach a single joint decision on
       necessary Program issues;

F.     Consistent with the Act and the Rules, certain of the Communities have established the
       Agency and a decision-making process concerning Program issues pursuant to that
       Interlocal Cooperation Agreement entered into pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act,
       Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq (the “Governance Agreement”); and

G.     The Communities that have adopted the Program Resolution and that have entered into the
       Governance Agreement are listed in Appendix A hereto (the “Listed Entities”);

H.     Consistent with the requirements of the Governance Agreement, and to satisfy the
       requirements of the Act, the Agency (on behalf of the Listed Entities) and the Company
       hereby enter into the following Agreement.

                                             TERMS

Section 1.       Term of Agreement.
This Agreement shall be effective as of ______________ (“Effective Date”) and shall remain in
effect until all payments contemplated by this Agreement have been made.

Section 2.      Third-Party Expenses.
A Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) has been reached between the Division, the Office,
the Company, and the Agency. The MOU sets forth various understandings between the Division,
the Office, the Company and the Agency, on behalf of each of the Listed Entities, regarding the
process and procedures for the payment of third-party expenses incurred by the Division and the
Office for assistance associated with the initial approval of the Program. As set forth in the MOU,
the Division and the Office have agreed that consulting fees associated with the initial approval of
the Program for which they will seek payment pursuant to this Agreement will not exceed
$100,000 for each entity. Consistent with this separate agreement, the Agency has budgeted a
total of $200,000 for purposes of this Agreement.

Section 3.     Stipulation of Payment of Third-Party Expenses.
The Agency hereby stipulates that it will pay to the Company up to $100,000 for consulting fees
incurred by the Division and up to $100,000 for consulting fees incurred by the Office for third-
party expertise contracted for by the Division and the Office for assistance with activities
associated with initial approval of the Program as contemplated by the Act.




                                                 2
Section 4.     Process for Payment of Third-Party Expenses.
The process for payment of the invoicing and payment of third-party expenses is set forth in full
in the MOU. Consistent with the MOU, the Division and the Office will submit to the Company,
with a copy to the Agency, a summary invoice identifying the approved amount incurred for
consulting fees related to the evaluation of the Program. For purposes of this Agreement, the
Agency and the Company agree as follows:

       Within 30 days of its receipt of each summary invoice from the Office or the Division, the
       Company shall remit payment by check to the consultant identified in the summary invoice.
       The Company shall not be obligated to pay more than $100,000 to the Division or more
       than $100,000 to the Office (or $200,000 total) for third-party expertise contemplated
       under this Agreement.

       Within 20 days of its receipt of the summary invoice from the Office or the Division, the
       Agency shall pay the Company the full amount owed for each such summary invoice. The
       Agency shall not be obligated to pay the Company more than $100,000 for invoices
       submitted by the Division or more than $100,000 for invoices submitted by the Office (or
       $200,000 total) for third-party expertise contemplated under this Agreement. Payments
       shall be paid by check mailed to Company as follows:

               PacifiCorp
               Attn: Central Cashiers Office
               825 NE Multnomah, Suite 550
               Portland, OR 97232

Section 5.     Representations and Warranties.
On the Effective Date, each Party represents, warrants and covenants to the other Party that:

        (a)    The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement are within its powers,
have been duly authorized by all necessary action and do not violate any of the terms and
conditions in its governing documents, any contracts to which it is a party or any law, rule,
regulation, order or the like applicable to it;

        (b)     This Agreement constitutes a legally valid and binding obligation enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms, subject to any equitable defenses;

       (c)    There is not pending, or to its knowledge, threatened against it, any legal
proceedings that could materially adversely affect its ability to perform under this Agreement;

        (d)    It is acting for its own account and its decision to enter into this Agreement is based
upon its own judgment, not in reliance upon the advice or recommendations of the other Party,
and it is capable of assessing the merits of and understanding, and understands and accepts the
terms, conditions and risks of this Agreement; and


                                                  3
       (e)   It has not relied upon any promises, representations, statements or information of
any kind whatsoever that are not contained in this Agreement in deciding to enter into this
Agreement.

Section 6.      Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Venue.
All provisions of this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the Parties shall in all cases be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah applicable to contracts
executed in and to be wholly performed in Utah by persons domiciled in the State of Utah. Each
Party agrees that any dispute relating to this Agreement shall be brought before the Commission
or a federal or state court located within the State of Utah with jurisdiction over such dispute, and
each Party consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such court or Commission (and the appellate
courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding. Furthermore, each party waives, to the
extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the
venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such forum or that any such suit, action or
proceeding which is brought in any such forum has been brought in any inconvenient forum.

Section 7.       Waiver of Jury Trial.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the Parties hereto waives any right it may have to a
trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection
with this Agreement. Each Party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a jury
trial has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has not been waived.

Section 8.      Default; Remedies; Waiver
Either Party may exercise any or all of its right and remedies under this Agreement and under any
applicable laws, rules and regulations. Under no circumstances shall either Party be liable for any
special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, or exemplary damages. No provision of this
Agreement shall be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver is in writing signed by the
waiving Party. No failure by any Party to insist upon the strict performance of any provision of
this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, shall
constitute a waiver of any such breach of such provision or of any other provision. No waiver of
any provision of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement
or a waiver of such provision with respect to any subsequent breach, unless expressly provided in
writing.

Section 9.     Communications and Notice
Any notice required or desired to be given hereunder by one Party to the other Party shall be sent
by hand-delivery, by courier service, electronic mail or by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the other Party at the address set forth below:




                                                   4
If to Company:         Rocky Mountain Power
                       Attention:     Jana Saba
                       State Regulatory Affairs Manager – Utah
                       1407 W. North Temple, Suite 330
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
                       jana.saba@pacificorp.com

       With a copy to:        Rocky Mountain Power
                              Attention:     Legal Department
                              1407 W. North Temple, Suite 330
                              Salt Lake City, Utah 84116

If to Agency:          Community Renewable Energy Agency
                       Attention:    Emily Quinton, Secretary
                                     Dan Dugan, Chair
                       3330 South 1300 East
                       Millcreek, UT 84106

       With a copy to:        James Dodge Russell & Stephens, P.C.
                              Attention:     Phillip Russell
                              10 W. Broadway, Suite 400
                              Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                              prussell@jdrslaw.com

Either Party may modify the contact persons or addresses at which the Party is to receive notice
by delivering a written notice of the change to the other Party in a manner consistent with this
Section.

Section 10. Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to
be an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. Each Party agrees
that electronic signatures in this Agreement, whether by facsimile, by electronic mail in “portable
document format” (.pdf) or similar format, or by digital or encrypted electronic signature software,
have the same force and effect as manual signatures. Electronic signatures of the Parties shall be
deemed to constitute original signatures, and copies hereof shall be deemed to constitute duplicate
originals.

Section 11. Modification/Amendment.
Any modification, extension or amendment to this Agreement must be in writing, having direct
reference to this Agreement and must be executed by duly authorized representatives of the Parties.
The Agency and the Company anticipate entering into one or more other agreements related to the
development and operation of the Program. This Agreement shall survive and not be superseded
by any such subsequent agreements unless expressly indicated consistent with this provision.


                                                 5
Section 12. Integration; Amendment.
All terms and conditions heretofore made or agreed to with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement are merged into this Agreement, and no previous or contemporary representation or
agreement made by any officer, agent or employee of Company or Agency shall be binding upon
either Party unless contained herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided, this Agreement may
be modified only by a subsequent written amendment or agreement executed by both Parties.

Section 13.    Miscellaneous.

        (a)     This Agreement contains the entire agreement relating to the subject matter hereof
and supersedes all proposals, negotiations, representations, warranties, conditions and agreements,
collateral or otherwise, oral or written, made prior to the execution of this Agreement relating to
the subject matter hereof.

        (b)    This Agreement shall be construed without regard to the identity of the Party that
drafted the provisions of this Agreement and each and every provision of this Agreement shall be
construed as though the Parties participated equally in drafting such provisions.

       (c)     This Agreement, and the rights and obligations hereunder, shall inure to the benefit
of, and be enforceable against, any and all of each Party’s successors (including a successor by
any amalgamation of a Party) and permitted assigns.

        (d)      Each Party shall, in good faith, take all reasonable actions necessary to permit each
Party to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement. Where the consent, agreement or approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Where either Party is required or
permitted to act or omit to act based on its opinion or judgment, such opinion or judgment shall
not be unreasonably exercised.

       (e)     The provisions of this Agreement that by their nature are intended to survive the
termination, cancellation, completion, or expiration of this Agreement shall continue as a valid
and enforceable obligation of the Party notwithstanding any such termination, cancellation,
completion, or expiration.

                                      [Signature page follows]




                                                  6
                                        APPENDIX A
                                    “LISTED ENTITIES”

The Listed Entities set forth below timely adopted the Program Resolution required by Utah Code
§ 54-17-903(2)(a) and have joined or are eligible to join the Agency:


 Listed Entities

 Coalville City
 Cottonwood Heights
 Emigration Canyon Township
 Francis City
 Grand County
 City of Holladay
 Kearns
 Millcreek
 Moab City
 Oakley City
 Ogden City
 Park City
 Salt Lake City
 Salt Lake County
 Springdale City
 Summit County
 Town of Alta
 Town of Castle Valley




                                              8
                              Execution Version


       Appendix C
Memorandum of Understanding
                 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING
                    PAYMENT FOR THIRD-PARTY EXPERTISE

This MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING PAYMENT FOR THIRD-
PARTY EXPERTISE (this “Memorandum”) is entered into by and between the Community
Renewable Energy Agency (“Agency”), Rocky Mountain Power, an unincorporated division of
PacifiCorp, an Oregon corporation (the “Company”), the Division of Public Utilities created in
Utah Code § 54-4a-1 (“Division”), and the Office of Consumer Services created in Utah Code §
54-10a-101 (“Office”).

                                           RECITALS

A.     In 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted H.B. 411 that was codified at Utah Code Ann.
       § 54-17-901 et seq. and is known as the “Community Renewable Energy Act” (“Act”).

B.     The Act authorizes a community renewable energy program (“Program”) to be proposed
       in an application (“Application”) to be filed by a qualified utility for approval by the Public
       Service Commission of Utah (“Commission”). The Company is the qualified utility
       relevant to this Program.

C.     Upon Commission approval of the Program, RMP will be authorized to provide electric
       service from one or more “renewable energy resources” as defined by the Act (“Renewable
       Resources”) to end-use customers within the Participating Communities that participate in
       the Program (“Participating Communities”).

D.     The Act sets forth various requirements for a municipality, county or town (“Community”)
       that seeks to enable the Company to provide electric service pursuant to the Program to
       end-use customers located within the Community. These include:

       1.     Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), the Community must adopt a resolution
              no later than December 31, 2019, that states a goal of achieving an amount
              equivalent to 100% of the annual electric energy supply for participating customers
              from a renewable energy resource by 2030 (“Program Resolution”);

       2.     Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A), the Community must enter into an
              agreement (“Third-Party Expertise Agreement”) with a qualified utility with the
              stipulation of payment by the Community to the qualified utility for the costs of
              third-party expertise contracted for by the Division and the Office, for assistance
              with activities associated with initial approval of the Program (each such person or
              entity retained to provide such third-party expertise, a “Consultant”);

E.     The Act, as supplemented by rules adopted by the Commission and set forth at Utah
       Administrative Code R746-314 (“Rules”), require the Communities that adopted the


                                                 1
       Program Resolution to adopt a governance agreement to establish a decision-making
       process to ensure that the Communities will be able to reach a single joint decision on
       necessary Program issues;

F.     Consistent with the Act and the Rules, certain of the Communities have established the
       Agency and a decision-making process concerning Program issues pursuant to that
       Interlocal Cooperation Agreement entered into pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act,
       Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq. (the “Governance Agreement”);

G.     The Communities that have adopted the Program Resolution and that have entered into the
       Governance Agreement are listed in Appendix A hereto (the “Listed Entities”);

H.     Consistent with the requirements of the Governance Agreement, and to satisfy the
       requirements of the Act, the Agency (on behalf of the Listed Entities) and the Company
       have entered into the required Third-Party Expertise Agreement with an effective date
       contemporaneous with this Memorandum; and

I.     This Memorandum addresses invoicing, practices, and procedures regarding the payments
       and reimbursements to be made for Consultants as contemplated by Utah Code § 54-17-
       903(2)(b)(1)(a).

                                            TERMS

Section 1.       Term of Agreement.
This Memorandum shall be effective as of ______________ (“Effective Date”) and shall remain
in effect until all payments contemplated by the Third-Party Expertise Agreement have been made.

Section 2.     Third-Party Expertise Agreement.
Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A), the Listed Entities are obligated to enter into an
agreement with the Company to pay for third-party consulting fees incurred by the Division and
the Office associated with the initial approval of the Program. The Agency, on behalf of each of
the Listed Entities, and the Company have entered into such a Third-Party Expertise Agreement
with an effective date that is contemporaneous to the Effective Date herein.

Section 3.     Engagement of Third-Party Expertise
The Division and the Office currently expect to engage third-party Consultants to assist them in
discussions and proceedings related to the development and initial approval of the Program. The
Division and the Office shall have complete discretion in deciding whether to engage third-party
Consultants to assist with the activities associated with initial approval of the Program, which
Consultants to engage, and the services to be performed by the Consultants, and neither the Agency
nor the Company shall have any input or oversight into the process by which the Division and the
Office engage such Consultants or how the Consultants perform such services.



                                                2
If the Division and/or the Office engage third-party Consultants to assist with activities associated
with initial approval of the Program, each entity shall exercise sole discretion in setting the rates
and terms of service for such Consultant. Each entity shall likewise have sole discretion in
implementing policies and procedures to define the relationship between the entity and the
Consultant it hires, including procedures for the submission of invoices for work performed. Each
entity shall have sole discretion in reviewing and approving the invoices submitted by such
Consultant. In exercising this discretion, each entity shall apply the same methods and standards
of care exercised in other dockets before the Commission in which the agency engages expert
consultants and approves invoices.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Agency nor the Company shall be obligated to the
Division or the Office for any fees or expenses charged by Consultants that are not actually
incurred in connection with the initial development and approval of the Program.

Section 4.      Third-Party Expenses.
In the event that the Division and/or the Office engage third-party Consultants for assistance in the
initial development and approval of the Program, each entity agrees not to seek reimbursement of
expenses for such third-party expertise as contemplated by Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A) in
an amount in excess of $100,000 for each entity.

Section 5.      Process for Payment of Third-Party Expenses.
Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(b)(i)(A) requires the Listed Entities to pay to the Company the amounts
incurred by the Division and the Office for third-party expertise regarding the initial approval of
the Program. The Parties agree to utilize the following process to facilitate payment by the Listed
Entities, through the Agency, to the Company for amounts incurred by the Division and the Office
for such third-party expertise.

       5.1     After receipt of an invoice from a Consultant, the Division or Office shall review
               and approve that invoice consistent with its typical methods and standards of care.
               Such invoice shall be approved and submitted by the Division or Office for payment
               under this Memorandum only to the extent it is for assistance with activities
               associated with initial approval of the Program as contemplated by the Act, and
               submission of an approved invoice for payment under this Memorandum shall
               constitute a representation to that effect by the Division or the Office, as applicable.
               Each entity shall then prepare a summary invoice to submit to the Company. The
               summary invoice may include as much information as each entity deems
               appropriate, but need not contain any information other than (a) the Consultant’s
               name, (b) the Consultant’s hourly rate, (c) the total hours billed by the Consultant
               for the invoice, (d) the total invoice amount to be paid. The summary invoice need
               not include a description of the services performed or the hours associated with any
               individual task.




                                                  3
       5.2     Summary invoices shall be submitted to the Company’s State Regulatory Affairs
               Manager for Utah, currently Jana Saba, via email jana.saba@pacificorp.com, with
               a copy to the Agency via email to the following for the Agency:

                      Treasurer:      Jeff Silvestrini (jsilvestrini@millcreek.us),
                      Chair:          Dan Dugan (Daniel.Dugan@slcgov.com), and
                      Copy to:        Christopher Thomas (Christopher.Thomas@slcgov.com).

               With the first summary invoice submitted, the Division or Office, as applicable,
               will provide a copy of the W-9 form attached hereto as Appendix B, which the
               Division or Office shall ensure has been completed by its Consultant.

       5.3     Within 30 days of its receipt of the summary invoice pursuant to this Section, the
               Company shall remit payment by check to the consultant identified in the summary
               invoice.

       5.4     Within 20 days of its receipt of the summary invoice pursuant to this Section, the
               Agency shall remit payment by check to the Company consistent with the
               provisions of the Third-Party Expertise Agreement.

Section 6.     Representations and Warranties.
On the Effective Date, each Party represents, warrants and covenants to the other Party that:

        (a)    The execution, delivery and performance of this Memorandum are within its
powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary action and do not violate any of the terms and
conditions in its governing documents, any contracts to which it is a party or any law, rule,
regulation, order or the like applicable to it;

        (b)     This Memorandum constitutes a legally valid and binding obligation enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms, subject to any equitable defenses;

       (c)    There is not pending, or to its knowledge, threatened against it, any legal
proceedings that could materially adversely affect its ability to perform under this Memorandum;

        (d)      It is acting for its own account and its decision to enter into this Memorandum is
based upon its own judgment, not in reliance upon the advice or recommendations of the other
Party, and it is capable of assessing the merits of and understanding, and understands and accepts
the terms, conditions and risks of this Memorandum; and

       (e)   It has not relied upon any promises, representations, statements or information of
any kind whatsoever that are not contained in this Memorandum in deciding to enter into this
Memorandum.



                                                4
Section 7.     Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Venue.
All provisions of this Memorandum and the rights and obligations of the Parties shall in all cases
be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah applicable to
contracts executed in and to be wholly performed in Utah by persons domiciled in the State of
Utah. Each Party agrees that any dispute relating to this Memorandum shall be brought before the
Commission or a court located within the State of Utah with jurisdiction over such dispute, and
each Party consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such court or Commission (and the appellate
courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding. Furthermore, each party waives, to the
extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the
venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such forum or that any such suit, action or
proceeding which is brought in any such forum has been brought in any inconvenient forum.

Section 8.       Waiver of Jury Trial.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the Parties hereto waives any right it may have to a
trial by jury in respect of any litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection
with this Memorandum. Each Party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a
jury trial has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has not been
waived.

Section 9.     Default; Remedies; Waiver
Either Party may exercise any or all of its right and remedies under this Memorandum and under
any applicable laws, rules and regulations. Under no circumstances shall either Party be liable for
any special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, or exemplary damages. No provision of
this Memorandum shall be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver is in writing signed
by the waiving Party. No failure by any Party to insist upon the strict performance of any provision
of this Memorandum or to exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, shall
constitute a waiver of any such breach of such provision or of any other provision. No waiver of
any provision of this Memorandum shall be deemed a waiver of any other provision of this
Memorandum or a waiver of such provision with respect to any subsequent breach, unless
expressly provided in writing.

Section 10. Communications and Notice
Any notice required or desired to be given hereunder by one Party to the other Party shall be sent
by hand-delivery, by courier service, electronic mail or by registered or certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the other Party at the address set forth below:


If to the Division:     Division of Public Utilities
                        Attention:     Chris Parker, Director
                        160 East 300 South, 4th Floor
                        P.O. Box 146751
                        Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6741
                        chrisparker@utah.gov


                                                   5
If to the Office:      Office of Consumer Services
                       Attention:     Michele Beck,
                       160 East 300 South, Room 201
                       P.O. Box 146782
                       Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6782
                       mbeck@utah.gov

If to Company:         Rocky Mountain Power
                       Attention:     Jana Saba
                       State Regulatory Affairs Manager – Utah
                       1407 W. North Temple, Suite 330
                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
                       jana.saba@pacificorp.com

        With a copy to:       Rocky Mountain Power
                              Attention:     Legal Department
                              1407 W. North Temple, Suite 330
                              Salt Lake City, Utah 84116

If to Agency:          Community Renewable Energy Agency
                       Attention:    Emily Quinton, Secretary
                                     Dan Dugan, Chair
                       3330 South 1300 East
                       Millcreek, UT 84106

        With a copy to:       James Dodge Russell & Stephens, P.C.
                              Attention:     Phillip Russell
                              10 W. Broadway, Suite 400
                              Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                              prussell@jdrslaw.com

Any Party may modify the contact persons or addresses at which the Party is to receive notice by
delivering a written notice of the change to all other Parties in a manner consistent with this
Section.

Section 11. Counterparts.
This Memorandum may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed
to be an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument. Each Party agrees
that electronic signatures in this Memorandum, whether by facsimile, by electronic mail in
“portable document format” (.pdf) or similar format, or by digital or encrypted electronic signature
software, have the same force and effect as manual signatures. Electronic signatures of the Parties
shall be deemed to constitute original signatures, and copies hereof shall be deemed to constitute
duplicate originals.


                                                 6
Section 12. Modification/Amendment.
Any modification, extension or amendment to this Memorandum must be in writing, having direct
reference to this Memorandum and must be executed by duly authorized representatives of the
Parties. The Agency and the Company anticipate entering into one or more other agreements
related to the development and operation of the Program. This Memorandum shall survive and
not be superseded by any such subsequent agreements unless expressly indicated consistent with
this provision.

Section 13. Integration; Amendment.
All terms and conditions heretofore made or agreed to with respect to the subject matter of this
Memorandum are merged into this Memorandum, and no previous or contemporary representation
or agreement made by any officer, agent or employee of Company or Agency shall be binding
upon either Party unless contained herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided, this
Memorandum may be modified only by a subsequent written amendment or agreement executed
among the Parties.

Section 14.    Miscellaneous.

       (a)   This Memorandum contains the entire agreement relating to the subject matter
hereof and supersedes all proposals, negotiations, representations, warranties, conditions and
agreements, collateral or otherwise, oral or written, made prior to the execution of this
Memorandum relating to the subject matter hereof.

        (b)     This Memorandum shall be construed without regard to the identity of the Party
that drafted the provisions of this Memorandum and each and every provision of this Memorandum
shall be construed as though the Parties participated equally in drafting such provisions.

        (c)     This Memorandum, and the rights and obligations hereunder, shall inure to the
benefit of, and be enforceable against, any and all of each Party’s successors (including a successor
by any amalgamation of a Party) and permitted assigns.

        (d)       Each Party shall, in good faith, take all reasonable actions necessary to permit each
Party to fulfill its obligations under this Memorandum. Where the consent, agreement or approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Where either Party is required or
permitted to act or omit to act based on its opinion or judgment, such opinion or judgment shall
not be unreasonably exercised.

       (e)     The provisions of this Memorandum that by their nature are intended to survive the
termination, cancellation, completion, or expiration of this Memorandum shall continue as a valid
and enforceable obligation of the Party notwithstanding any such termination, cancellation,
completion, or expiration.



                                                  7
[Signature page follows]




           8
                                        APPENDIX A
                                    “LISTED ENTITIES”

The Listed Entities set forth below timely adopted the Program Resolution required by Utah Code
§ 54-17-903(2)(a) and have joined or are eligible to join the Agency:


 Listed Entities

 Coalville City
 Cottonwood Heights
 Emigration Canyon Township
 Francis City
 Grand County
 City of Holladay
 Kearns
 Millcreek
 Moab City
 Oakley City
 Ogden City
 Park City
 Salt Lake City
 Salt Lake County
 Summit County
 Town of Alta
 Town of Castle Valley
 Town of Springdale




                                              10
                                                         Execution Version


                                  Appendix D
                             Communication Information

AGENCY:

    Community Renewable Energy Agency
    Secretary
    3330 South 1300 East
    Millcreek, UT 84106
    equinton@summitcounty.org

           Phillip J. Russell
           James Dodge Russell & Stephens, P.C.
           10 W. Broadway, Suite 400
           Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
           prussell@jdrslaw.com

COMMUNITIES:

    Town of Alta
    Chris Cawley
    PO Box 8016
    Alta, UT 84092
    ccawley@townofalta.com

    Town of Castle Valley
    HC 64 Box 2705
    Castle Valley, UT 84532
    townclerk@castlevalleyutah.com

    Coalville City
    PO Box 188
    10 North Main Street
    Coalville, UT 84017
    cityhall@coalvillecity.org

    City of Cottonwood Heights
    City Manager
    2277 East Bengal Boulevard
    Cottonwood Heights, UT 84121
    ttingey@ch.utah.gov

    Emigration Canyon Township
    5025 E Emigration Canyon Road
    Emigration Canyon Metro Township, UT 84108
    info@ecmetro.org
                                Execution Version


Francis City
Recorder
2317 South Spring Hollow Road
Francis, UT 84036
sgillett@francisutah.org

Grand County
Commission’s Office
125 E. Center Street
Moab, UT 84532
qhall@grandcountyutah.net

City of Holladay
City Manager
4580 South 2300 East
Holladay, UT 84117
gchamness@cityofholladay.com

Kearns Metro Township
Mayor
4956 West 6200 South #527
Kearns, UT 84118
lobk9973@hotmail.com

Millcreek
Mayor
3300 South 1300 East
Millcreek, UT 84106
jsilvestrini@millcreek.us

City of Moab
City Manager
217 East Center Street
Moab, UT 84532-2534
ccastle@moabcity.org

Oakley City
PO Box 129
Oakley, UT 84055
oakley@oakleycity.com
                                              Execution Version


Ogden City
Mara Brown
Management Services Director
2549 Washington Blvd. #800
Ogden, UT 84401
marabrown@ogdencity.com

Park City
Luke Cartin
Park City Municipal Corporation
PO Box 1480
Park City, UT 84060
luke.cartin@parkcity.org

Salt Lake City
Christopher Thomas
Salt Lake City Department of Sustainability
541 S. State St. Room 404
PO Box 145467
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5474
christopher.thomas@slcgov.com

Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County Government Center
2001 South State Street, Suite N-2100
PO Box 144575
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4575
mayor@slco.org

Town of Springdale
118 Lion Boulevard
PO Box 187
Springdale, UT 84767-0187
rwixom@springdale.utah.gov

       J. Gregory Hardman
       Snow Jensen & Reece
       912 West 1600 South, Suite B-200
       St. George, UT 84770
       ghardman@snowjensen.com

Summit County
Emily Quinton
PO Box 128
Coalville, UT 84017
equinton@summitcounty.org
                                                                              Execution Version


ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER:

General:

              PacifiCorp
              1407 West North Temple, Suite 320
              Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
              Attn: Contract Administration
              E-mail: cntadmin@pacificorp.com

              With a Copy To:

              1407 West North Temple, Suite 320
              Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
              Attn: Counsel
              katherine.smith@pacificorp.com


Payments:

              Attn: Central Cashiers Office, Suite 550
              Phone: (503) 813-6826

Notices of an Event of Default or Potential Event of Default:

              In addition to notice to the “General” address above, copy to

              PacifiCorp Legal Department
              825 NE Multnomah, Suite 2000
              Portland, Oregon 97232- 2315
              Attn: Assistant General Counsel
              andrew.mayer@pacificorp.com
