                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                 Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                      Public Meeting Agenda
                                         **AMENDED**
                     Thursday, April 11, 2024 8:30 A.M.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/meet/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

Anchor Location        Emigration Canyon Fire Station
                       5025 Emigration Canyon Road
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance, or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                  LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

PER2023-000843 - Rebuild Single family dwelling (fire destroyed)- Won Shim is requesting
consideration to rebuild single family dwelling within the 50’ setback (approx. 30’) to an
ephemeral stream corridor. Based on the Planning and Development Director recommendation.
Acres: 5.60 acres. Location: 3751 East Emigration Canyon Road. Zone: FR-20 (FCOZ).
Planner: Jim Nakamura (Motion/Voting)


April 11, 2024                                Page 1 of 2                 AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
                                   BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the March 14, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    2) MSD Planning staff will continue the Title 19 Code Update Project, including a review of
       the Foothill and Canyons Overlay Zone as well as Site Development Standards.
       Planner(s): Matt Starley and Brian Tucker (Discussion)
    3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                         ADJOURN




April 11, 2024                             Page 2 of 2            AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



April 11, 2024                                          AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                             File # PER2023-000843


                                    APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION
                                     SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION

Public Body: Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 11, 2024
Parcel ID: Parcel # 16-01-376-004-0000
Acreage: 5.60
Current Zone: FR-20
Property Address: 3751 Emigration Canyon Rd
Request: Request for a modification of an ephemeral stream setback from 50’ to 30’ for proposed rebuild of a
single-family dwelling structure.
Planner: Jim Nakamura
Planning Staff Recommendation: approval (Director)
Applicant Name: Won Shim
                                         SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION




         N




                                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                   2001 S. State Street #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • (385) 468-6700
Request: To build a single-family dwelling structure within 50’ of an ephemeral stream corridor (non-watershed)
File #: PER2023-000843


The property is located approximately .75 miles up Emigration canyon on the North side of the road (exhibit A). The
subject property had a previous dwelling structure mostly destroyed by fire between 2017-2018, the
foundation/ruins still exist on property (exhibit B)

                                          APPLICATION DESCRIPTION

Mr. Shim, the applicant/architect, is requesting a modification of the minimum setback from an ephemeral stream
corridor (Lithograph Fork) from 50’ to 30’ in order to rebuild a previously fire-destroyed single family dwelling
structure.

                                             CRITERIA & ANALYSIS

Prior to the fire, the existing structure was non-complying in relation to the ephemeral stream channel. SLCO
assessor data shows the dwelling structure existed as of 2017 as shown in exhibit (C), and the previous dwelling
structure’s foundation sat within 30’ to the ephemeral stream. (exhibit D) Between February of 1998 and March of
2017, the section of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone regarding ephemeral streams read as follows:
        5.Ephemeral Streams—Prohibited Activities. Development shall not be permitted within the channel of an
        ephemeral stream, as defined by its ordinary high-water mark, except that the planning commission upon
        the recommendation of the development services director may grant waivers or modifications from this
        prohibition upon a finding that the development will have no adverse environmental impacts, or that such
        impacts will be substantially mitigated. The preceding notwithstanding, development within Salt Lake
        City's watershed areas, as delineated on maps incorporated by reference in Section 19.72.020(B)(2) of this
        chapter and on file with the Salt Lake County planning and development services division, shall in no
        instance be permitted closer than fifty feet of the channel of an ephemeral stream, as defined by its
        ordinary high-water mark.
In Emigration Canyon, there was no minimum setback from an ephemeral stream in the pre-2017 code, merely a
prohibition from developing within the channel itself (unless an exception was approved by the planning
commission).

Current Emigration Canyon code regarding ephemeral streams reads as follows:
        19.72.130 Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection
        Ephemeral Streams
        Leach fields shall be set back 100 feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. All buildings, accessory
        structures, and parking areas or parking lots shall be set back at least 50 feet from the channel of an
        ephemeral stream. The Director may recommend to the land use authority modifications to this
        prohibition upon finding that the modification is likely to cause minimal adverse environmental
        impact or that such impact may be substantially mitigated. For properties located within the Salt Lake
        City watershed, the Director shall consult with Salt Lake City Public Utilities prior to making a
        recommendation.
The subject property is not within a mapped ground water protection zone, and the requested setback from the
ephemeral channel will not be any closer than the previous dwelling’s foundation (exhibit D).


        Findings of Fact: Based on the historic placement of the building on the site, the Health Department review
        of septic design, and location of the building outside of a mapped ground water protection zone, there will
        be minimal environmental impact of the structure as proposed. Further, by constructing the dwelling
        structure at the proposed 30’ setback from the ephemeral stream, the steeper hillside (in excess of 35%
        slope) to the Northeast of the dwelling structure will remain untouched (as shown in Exhibit E).

                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
Request: To build a single-family dwelling structure within 50’ of an ephemeral stream corridor (non-watershed)
File #: PER2023-000843


        An updated septic design has been submitted to the SLCO Health department. Based on placement in
        relation to the an existing well and minimum septic field setbacks from the ephemeral stream, the buildable
        area for the proposed dwelling structure is significantly reduced.




                                               PUBLIC COMMENT

As of the writing of this staff report, the MSD planning staff have not received any public comment related to the
proposed modification.

                                  OPTION FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION

The Planning Commission has three options with respect to this application for a Special Exception:
Option 1:      Approve the request as submitted.
Option 2:      Approve the request with the conditions.
Option 3:      Deny the request.

                                     CONCLUSION & RECOMMENDATION

The MSD planning/development director recommends that Emigration Canyon Planning Commission approve
Application file PER2023-000843 for a modification of the 50’ setback from an ephemeral stream as proposed.


EXHIBITS:

A.      EXISTING ACCESS TO STRUCTURE
B.      PHOTOS DOCUMENTING EXISTING FOUNDATION/RUINS
C.      2017 AERIAL SHOWING DWELLING STRUCTURE PRE-FIRE
D.      SITE PLAN (PROPOSED VS PREVIOUS FOOTPRINT)
E.      MAP VIEW DEPICTING STEEP SLOPES NEAR STRUCTURE
F.      NARRITIVE PROVIDED BY APPLICANT
G.      RENDERINGS OF PROPOSED DWELLING STRUCTURE




                                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
Exhibit A – Street View




  Exhibit B1 - Ruins
Exhibit B2 - Ruins




Exhibit B3 - Ruins
Exhibit C – 2017 Pre-Fire Aerial
Exhibit D – Demo Plan
Exhibit E – Slope Analysis
                                                                                                                     Exhibit F



2023-12-01
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
2001 State St.
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
Attn: Mr. Jim Nakamura




Jim,

Lloyd Architects and consultants have prepared, in accordance with guidance provided by MSD
and the ECMT Municipal Code, drawings that propose a new home at the address 3751 E.
Emigration Canyon Rd. The lot contains a portion of Lithograph Fork, an Ephemeral Stream.

We are requesting on behalf of the Owner, Don Stewart, a Stream Setback Reduction that will
allow us to place the home deeper into the lot and away from the street. We are proposing
that the standard 50’ ephemeral stream setback be reduced down to 30’-0”, which would
capture the footprint of the existing building foundation and allow the proposed home and
systems to be constructed.

Please find below a description of the site conditions and an explanation of the criteria upon
which this solution is being proposed:

The existing home on the property lay abandoned for many years until a fire burned it down to
its foundations, the rubble still remains on the site. The existing septic system is no longer
functional and must be abandoned. The site is wedge-shaped with steep hills on either side,
severely limiting the buildable area in which the Home, Septic System, Well, and Stream
Setback must all maintain clearances from each other. A new septic system with its drainfield
and clearances required for health and sanitation is the most challenging of these items, and
renders the site difficult to develop.

Our Engineer, Justin Dye, P.E., is designing the Septic System and has confirmed with the
Health Department that a new and code-compliant Septic System can be designed for the lot,
granted the house can be placed where proposed. The setback reduction would allow for the
home/structure to be moved closer to the Stream, allowing all other pieces to maintain their
minimal distances and resolve the complex site conditions.

Worth noting is that our Civil Engineer went to the site in Spring 2023 and found Lithograph
Fork to be bone-dry, with evidence of old debris that suggested water had not been running
through it for some time. This would have been a prime time to observe runoff in the
Ephemeral Stream as Utah had just seen historical snowfall that Winter and experienced heavy
runoff all over the state. This did not appear to be the case with Lithograph Fork.

A reduction of the Stream Setback would allow the home to be placed where proposed, and
accomplish these things:


Lloyd Architects 573 East 600 South Salt Lake City, UT 84102 801.328.3245 warren@lloyd-arch.com www.lloyd-arch.com
                                                                                                                       1
    1) A new, code compliant Septic System may be installed without the need for septic
       exceptions
    2) Allows preservation of the natural vegetation near the front of the lot (street frontage)
           a) This reduces the visual impact of the home from the street (farther away, and
              better screened by natural vegetation).
           b) Improves the visual and auditory comfort of the inhabitants
    3) Allow for a more natural drive approach that follows the native topography, reducing
       excessive grading, retaining, and hardscaping


Sincerely
Won Shim




Lloyd Architects 573 East 600 South Salt Lake City, UT 84102 801.328.3245 warren@lloyd-arch.com www.lloyd-arch.com
                                                                                                                     2
Exhibit G1 – Rendering 1
Exhibit G2 – Rendering 2
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               EMIGRATION PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Thursday, March 14, 2024 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 55 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wallace

                                                ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
     Andrew Wallace (Chair)                   x
           Jim Karkut                         x                                Wendy Gurr                                  x
          Dale Berreth                        x                               Jim Nakamura                                 x
     Tim Harpst (Vice Chair)                  x                                Matt Starley                                x
          Jodi Geroux                         x                                Brian Tucker                                x
                                                                                Adam Long                                  x




                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 8:31 a.m.

    1) Approval of the February 8, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the February 8, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes with
       amendments.
             Motion by: Commissioner Geroux
             2nd by: Commissioner Harpst
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


    2) MSD Planning staff will continue the Title 19 Code Update Project, including a review of the
       proposed Public Facilities and Institutions Zones, and others. Planner(s): Matt Starley and Brian
       Tucker (Discussion)

        Mr. Starley provided an update to the Code Update project tracking. Commissioners and staff had
        a brief discussion regarding removing zones the canyon doesn’t have. Discussed FCOZ and
        combining with Site Development Standards.

        Uses allowed in PF and PI Zones -


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – March 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 1 of 2
       Retail and Services:
       Remove Childcare Licensed, Family
       Remove Childcare Licensed, Residential

       Recreational:
       Change Recreation Facility, Public and private nonprofit recreational grounds, and facilities to
       Permitted.
       Remove Public Use and refer to development standards.

       Lodging:
       Remove all lodging.

       Institutional:
       Remove Micromobility support infrastructure
       Remove public service training facility
       Remove solar energy system
       Remove wind energy system
       Remove wireless telecommunication facility

       Remove - Retail and Service: (Duplicated)

       Specialty:
       Change to off premise parking and define.

       Accessory Uses:
       Remove solar energy system, accessory
       Remove wind energy system, accessory

       Yard and Setback Standards –

       Changing Director or Designee to Planning Commission with a recommendation from the director
       or designee for height exceptions, limits of disturbance, and setbacks.

       19.40.080 – Additional requirements and standards. Remove all, as they are referenced in site
       development standards.

       Ryan Lieke from the public asked if it isn’t an allowed use, would he have to rezone if the use isn’t
       listed in the code.

   3) Other Business Items. (As needed)
      No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Wallace motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Geroux seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 10:26 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – March 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                Page 2 of 2
