Meeting    Body:    Emigration
Canyon Planning Commission

Meeting Date: September 26,
2024

File Number: OAM2024-001247

Subject: Proposed amendment                        SUMMARY & BACKGROUND
to the Emigration Canyon
Subdivision Ordinance, Title 18 of   The Utah State Legislature adopted Senate Bill 174 (SB 174)
the Emigration Canyon Municipal      in 2023 and House Bill 476 (HB 476) in 2024, which amend
Code, to comply with review          various land use and development requirements for
timeframes, review cycle limits,     municipalities and counties, including subdivision review
land use authority designations      procedures. The “effective date” of the amended subdivision
and other amendments
                                     review procedures for SB 174 is December 31, 2024.
mandated by SB 174 and HB 476.
P (Public Hearing)                                        ATTACHMENTS
Applicant:   Emigration   Canyon     The following attachments are included as supplementary
Council
                                     materials to the end of this staff report:
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning
Manager                              1.      Proposed revisions to Title 18, Subdivisions

Project Type:                                             STAFF ANALYSIS
Subdivision Ordinance Text           Issue before the Commission:
Amendment
                                     SB 174 includes sweeping changes and definitional changes
Areas Affected: All of Emigration    that previously were not imposed. HB 476 includes both
Canyon
                                     practical and definitional changes. Many of our existing
Recommendation: Motion to            policies, procedures, and provisions are already compliant,
recommend approval of the            but Emigration Canyon has been advised by legal consultant,
proposed amendments to Title 18      Jay Springer, attorney with Smith Hartvigsen, PLLC, that to
Subdivisions to comply with
                                     ensure clarity, consistency, and compliance with State Code,
enrolled Senate Bill 174 of the
                                     several text amendments to Title 18 are warranted.
2023 General Session and House
Bill 476 of the 2024 General
Session of the Utah State
Legislature.




 [SB 174 and HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2024-001247 / September 26, 2024] | Page 1 of 4
Legislative Mandate:

The primary effects of Senate Bill 174 are:

•      Requires cities and counties to identify an administrative land use authority for subdivision
review and preliminary subdivision application approval for single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings, and townhomes;

•      Prohibits city and county councils from acting as an administrative land use authority for
subdivision plats or plat amendments—except for plat amendments or vacations that seek to
reduce or remove dedicated public rights-of-way;

•       Establishes subdivision review procedures for cities and counties, including defining review
cycles and permitted requests, and establishes timelines and noticing requirements;

•       Requires that a pre-application meeting be available to any interested applicant; and

•     Requires certain administrative and processing standards be made publicly available on
the municipal website.

The primary effects of House Bill 476 are:

•      Establishes that a subdivision improvement plan may be submitted with either a
preliminary or final subdivision application but may not be required for both;

•     Clarifies that a municipality may not require more than four review cycles for a subdivision
improvement plan review and this applies to either the preliminary or final stage of the process
depending on when the municipality requires a subdivision improvement plan be submitted;

•       Establishes that a municipality may not engage in a substantive review outside the review
cycle; and

•       Adjusts the timelines for application review to include additional days for municipalities
with a population of 5,000 or less.

Notice:

Notice of the public hearing before the Planning Commission has been given in accordance with
Utah Code 10-9a-205 and Emigration Canyon Code 19.16.080. Notice was mailed to each affected
entity. Physical notice was posted at the meeting location 10 days prior to the public hearing.
Notice was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website, and Emigration Canyon’s official website.

Review Procedure and Criteria:

The Emigration Canyon Council is the legislative authority for subdivision ordinance text
amendments. The Council cannot amend the subdivision ordinance without first submitting the
amendment to the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s
recommendation. The Planning Commission must hold a public hearing and review and

    [SB 174 and HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2024-001247 / September 26, 2024] | Page 2 of 4
recommend an action to the Council. The Council must then hold a public meeting after which it
may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the proposed text amendments recommended by the
Planning Commission.

A text amendment can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote
the public welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public
welfare, or is the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit
from the decision. Similarly, a text amendment can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the
decision could detrimentally impact the public welfare.



                                    STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Planning Staff finds that:

   1. In accordance with Utah Code, the proposed ordinance establishes that a municipality may
      now require a subdivision improvement plan to be submitted with a subdivision
      application but cannot require that the improvement plan be submitted with both the
      preliminary AND the final plan;

   2. In accordance with Utah Code, the proposed ordinance establishes the review cycle
      requirements apply to whichever subdivision plan (either preliminary or final) that the
      subdivision improvement plan is submitted with;

   3. In accordance with Utah Code, the proposed ordinance prohibits substantive review to
      occur outside the review cycle;

   4. The proposed ordinance complies with the time period requirements in accordance with
      House Bill 476;

   5. In accordance with House Bill 476, the proposed ordinance does not require a completion
      assurance bond for or dictate who installs or is responsible for the cost of the landscaping
      of residential lots or the equivalent open space surrounding single-family attached homes,
      whether platted as lots or common area.

   6. The proposed amendment improves clarity and does not alter the subdivision process to
      any greater extent that mandated by SB 174 and HB 476 or as requested by Emigration
      Canyon; and

   7. The proposed amendment does not affect any specific land use or property within
      Emigration Canyon, applying only to future applications to subdivide land within
      Emigration Canyon.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:



   [SB 174 and HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2024-001247 / September 26, 2024] | Page 3 of 4
       Motion to recommend approval of the proposed amendments to Title 18 Subdivisions to
       comply with Senate Bill 174 (2023) and House Bill 476 (2024) of the Utah State Legislature
       and improve overall clarity of Title 18.

                      POTENTIAL PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission’s role in the text amendment process is to provide a recommendation
to the Emigration Canyon Council. After taking public comment, the Planning Commission could
take any of the following actions, among others:

Option 1. Recommended approval of the attached ordinance to the Emigration Canyon Council
          subject to staff and legal counsel’s non-substantive and technical changes.

Option 2. Recommended approval of the attached ordinance to the Emigration Canyon Council
          with changes subject to staff and legal counsel’s non-substantive and technical
          changes.

Option 3. Recommend that the Council deny the proposed ordinance.




  [SB 174 and HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2024-001247 / September 26, 2024] | Page 4 of 4
