                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


                       Chapter 18.02 - Title, Purpose and Applicability
Sections:

18.02.010 - Title.

This Title shall be known as "The Subdivision Ordinance of Emigration Canyon" This title Title shall also be
known as Title 18, the Emigration Township Canyon Subdivision Ordinance.

18.02.020 - Purpose.

This ordinance Ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity and welfare
of the inhabitants of Emigration City Canyon which includes:

A. Facilitating the orderly development of the municipality;

B. Securing efficiency in governmental expenditures;

C. Implementing the municipality’s transportation plan;

D. Facilitating the development of a safe and efficient street system;

E. Facilitating the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites in a manner consistent with state
   law;

F. Ensuring adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities, and other services to developing areas of the
   municipality; and

G. Establishing the rights, duties, and responsibilities of subdividers with respect to the development of
   subdivisions within the municipality.

18.02.030 - Applicability.

All land within the jurisdictional limits of Emigration Canyon is subject to the provisions of this Title.

18.02.040 - Severability

If any provision of this Title is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that judgment
does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Title. The effect of the
judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in which the judgment or
decree was rendered.
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


                   Chapter 18.04 - Subdivision Plans and Plats Required
Sections:

18.04.010 - Subdivision Plats Required.

No person shall may subdivide, as defined by the Emigration Canyon Code, any tract of land within the
jurisdictional limits of the Emigration Canyon; nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise
convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or agreement would have the effect of
creating a "subdivision" as defined by the Emigration Canyon Code, unless and until a final plat, prepared
in accordance with the provisions of this titleTitle, shall havehas been reviewed and approved by the
appropriate decision making body consistent with this title Title and recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake
County Recorder.

18.04.020 – Exemption from Plat Requirements.

A. A division of property that complies with the following standards is exempt from plat requirements:

    1. The original property qualifies as land in agricultural use under Utah Code Ssection 59-2-502 of
       the Utah code; and

    2. Each resulting parcel will comply with the minimum lot size requirement of the applicable zone in
       which the property is located; and

    3. The property does not contain any existing residential units and each of the resulting parcels will
       not be used for nonagricultural purposes; and

    4.    The boundaries of each lot or parcel is graphically illustrated on a record of survey map, in
         accordance with Utah Code Section 17-23-17, that is presented to the Emigration Canyon. Upon
         approval of the parcel by the Director or Designee the record of survey map shall be recorded
         with the Salt Lake County Surveyor in addition to a subsequent notice of interest referring to the
         affected parcels and record of survey index with the Salt Lake County Recorder; and

    5. If a parcel exempted under Section 18.04.020 is used for a nonagricultural purpose, that lot or
       parcel shall comply with the platting and improvement requirements of this Title.

B. Parcel Boundary Adjustments. Parcel boundary adjustments are exempt from plat requirements. A
   "parcel boundary adjustment" means a recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
   adjusting their mutual boundary if:

    1. No additional parcel is created; and

    2. Each property identified in the agreement is unsubdivided land, including a remainder of
       subdivided land.

18.04.030 – Lots Created by Metes and Bounds Description.

A. In order to ensure the accurate location of property lines and the location of future construction and
   land uses within those property lines; ensure the orderly dedication of rights of way for public
   thoroughfares; and facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no property created
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    by a “metes and bounds” description and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall may be
    considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless:
    1. The property is recognized as a legal lot of record by the Director or Designee, meets all current
       zoning standards, and a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the community
       development dDirector or his or her designee and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder;
    2. The property has been recognized by the Director or Designee as a legal nonconforming lot of
       record, a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or Designee and the plat
       is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder; or
    3. The division of property by a “metes and bounds” description is permitted by the applicable law.
B. A plat authorized by this section Section shall be prepared in accordance with Final Plat
   requirements of this Title. The improvements required by this Title 14 and 18 of the Emigration
   Canyon Code shall be installed at the property owner or applicant’s expense.
C. If a property qualifies as a legal lot of record or a legal nonconforming lot of record and is already
   developed with a dwelling unit, no plat shall beis required. However, a street dedication may still be
   required when the private right-of-way does not align with the existing public right-of-way.
18.04.040 – Development Agreements.

A. The developer/property owner and Emigration Canyon may choose to enter into a development
   agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
   developer/property owner and the commitments of Emigration Canyon.

B. A development agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with this
   Subdivision Ordinance or any part of the Emigration Canyon Code unless such an exemption is clearly
   contained within the executed development agreement after the planning commission has held a
   public hearing and provided a recommendation.

C. The development agreement shall be recorded by Emigration Canyon at the Salt Lake County
   Recorder's office. Recordation by Emigration Canyon shall may only take place after all of: the
   Planning Commission makes a positive recommendation based on the review of Planning and
   Engineering Division, all necessary signatures are obtained, all other approvals given, and all bonds
   and fees posted. The development agreement must shall be recorded prior to the recording of the
   final plat. The Emigration Canyon Council may approve a development agreement as a legislative
   action. Consideration of a development agreement is separate from any consideration of or decision
   of a preliminary or final subdivision application or plat.

    1. It is the policy of Emigration Canyon that if the municipality fails to disclose a restricted right in
       accordance with State Code, the entirety of the development agreement shall be considered null
       and void. The developer and Emigration Canyon may choose to enter into a new agreement.

D. Any development agreement entered into by a developer/property owner and Emigration Canyon
   shall comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code §Section 10-9a-532.
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS




                            Chapter 18.06 - General Regulations
Sections:

18.06.010 - Time Limits.

Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless, for good
cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the Director:

A. A subdivision application expires if the applicant has not filed all of the required documents for
   preliminary plat approval with Planning and Development Services within six (6) months of the
   submission of a complete application.

B. A preliminary plat approval expires if a complete final plat application is not submitted to Planning
   and Development Services within one (1) year of the preliminary plat approval.

C. A preliminary subdivision with an approved phasing plan is granted an automatic preliminary
   subdivision extension of one (1) year each time a complete final plat application for one or more
   phases is submitted.

D. A subdivision application and final plat approval expires if the final plat has not been recorded with
   the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office within six (6) months of the date of the mayor’s last of the
   required signatures on the plat.

E. Failure to pursue an application, as evidenced by failure to file a complete application, the lack of
   timely resubmittals to the Development Review Committee’s comments and corrections, or failure to
   communicate delays in a timely manner, shall result in the expiration of the application after six (6)
   months of inaction.

18.06.020 - Exceptions—Permitted When.

A. In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the welfare,
   best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected, variations and
   exceptions of this Title may be made by the administrative land use authority at preliminary approval
   after the recommendation of the Municipal Engineer as provided in Subsection B, provided, that such
   variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
   without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this Title.

B. Any variation or exception from engineering standards required by this Title must be based on a
   recommendation by the Municipal Engineer and shall address the following:

    1. Strict adherence to this ordinance is not in keeping with sound engineering practice;

    2. The variation or exception is the minimal variation or exception to this ordinance to keep with
       sound engineering practice; and

    3. The variation or exception is associated with a specific hardship at a specific location and not a
       generally applicable condition.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


18.06.030 - Appeals.

The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision may appeal the decision
to the Land Use Hearing Officer by filing a letter to the Planning and Development Services stating the
reasons for appeal within ten (10) days after the decision. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall review the
record and the decision to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. After
hearing the appeal, the Land Use Hearing Officer may affirm, reverse, alter or remand the decision for
further consideration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any appeal from the Subdivision Improvement
Plans shall comply with Utah Code Ann. Sections 10-9a-604.2(8) and 10-9a-508(5)(d).

18.06.040 – Definitions.

All terms pertaining to the development or division of land as defined in Chapter 19.04 of the Emigration
Canyon Zoning Ordinance shall also be applicable to this Title.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS




                Chapter 18.08 – Procedure for Approval of a Subdivision
Sections:

18.08.010 - Approval Authority.

A. The planning commission is the administrative land use authority for all subdivisions.

B. In accordance with Utah Code § Section 10-9a-604.1, the Council may not consider or approve a
   subdivision plat as part of its approval of a legislative action.

C. The Director is the administrative land use authority for boundary line adjustments, subdivision
   amendments that do not include the creation of additional lots subject to Chapter 18.18.

D. A final subdivision plat application may only be approved by the Director, and only upon approval by
   all members of the Development Review Committee and all major utility providers. Any
   correspondence from a municipal agency, employee, or officer other than the planning commission
   for preliminary approvals, and the Director for review cycles and final approvals, directly with an
   applicant may not be deemed Emigration Canyon’s response to the application for purposes of
   determining review cycles.

18.08.020 - Review Procedures – Director to Administer.

In order to ensure that each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this Title, the Director or
Designee shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall
may not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have been
submitted to Planning and Development Services. The payment of a partial fee and submission of
conceptual plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.

18.08.030 – Development Review Committee.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) is the Planning and Development Services Staff, in
consultation with agencies with statutory review and approval authority for engineering, health, fire,
and surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers or other
reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed. The Development Review Committee is an
extension of the Director and serves as the Director’s Designee with the following responsibilities:
A. Establish subdivision application forms, checklists and standard operating procedures;
B. Review development applications including concept plans, subdivisions, commercial site plans and
   project plans;
C. Provide recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or Council regarding development
   applications that require their approval;
D. Review subdivision final plats and construction drawings, and to approve, approve with conditions
   or deny final plats and construction drawings; and
E. Hold pre-construction meetings for approved subdivision plats and other applicable development
   projects.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


18.08.040 - Subdivision Procedure, Generally.

The applicant shall prepare and submit a land use application, including fees, in accordance with this Title
and Planning and Development Services Division policy. The applicant may submit a concept plan. While
the concept plan is optional except under the circumstances provided herein, a preliminary and a final
plat are required.

18.08.050 - Concept Plan.

A. Any person seeking to subdivide land within the municipal boundaries may request a pre-application
   meeting or concept plan review. Emigration Canyon highly recommends a pre-application concept
   plan review meeting prior to submitting a Preliminary Subdivision Plat Application. A preapplication
   concept plan meeting is optional, is not a land use application for the purposes of vesting, and does
   not count toward the maximum number of review cycles for subdivision land use applications. Within
   fifteen (15) business days after the request, the city planning staff committee shall schedule the
   meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.

B. The purpose of a Concept Plan review is to provide a potential applicant with an economical way to
   work with the planning staff in reaching a general agreement as to the nature of a proposed land
   subdivision project, its impact on the community, and its conformance with the codes, ordinances,
   plans and policies. For the Concept Plan review, the potential applicant will not need detailed
   architectural or engineering drawings.

C. An applicant may submit a concept plan if the applicant desires to obtain input from Planning and
   Development Services Staff prior to undertaking the preparation and submission of a complete
   preliminary plat.

D. Prior to a Concept Plan review, the applicant shall submit to the Director or Designee a complete
   Concept Plan application, including documents, fees, any items specified under Section 18.10.020,
   and any other matter appropriately required by the Development Review Committee.

E. When the Concept Plan application is accepted by the Director or Designee the date of acceptance
   will be noted. The Development Review Committee shall, within fifteen (15) business days of
   acceptance, schedule a meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.

F. At or before the scheduled pre-application meeting, Magna shall provide the applicant with, or make
   available on its official website, the following:

    1. Copies of applicable land use regulations, including this Chapter;

    2. A complete list of standards required for the proposed project;

    3. Preliminary and final application checklists; and

    4. Feedback on the concept plan.

G. Where the applicant owns or controls more territory than they propose to submit for preliminary or
   final approval, or under circumstances where the proposed subdivision is part of a larger project or
   territory which the applicant owns or controls and which includes property in more than one zone,
                                           TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


     the Director may require that a concept plan covering the larger area be submitted. The concept plan
     for the larger area shall show how the immediate development relates to:

     1. Possible development of the remaining territory;

     2. Emigration Canyon’s adopted transportation plan, street plan, or street layout; and

     3. The provision of other public services, utilities and facilities.

H. If the Director concludes that, because of the scope or complexity of a proposed project, the proposal
   should be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at the concept plan stage, they may direct
   that the plan be forwarded for review by the administrative land use authority prior to the preparation
   of the preliminary plat.

I.   Any review of a concept plan by the administrative land use authority shall be considered as advisory
     only and shall may not constitute a commitment of approval of a subsequent preliminary plat or final
     plat.

18.08.060 – Preliminary Plat Application.

A. Application. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat application to the Planning and
   Development Services Division, which shall include:

     1. Submission of an approved application form that clearly indicates the type of application,
        property address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;

     2. Submission of a Preliminary preliminary Plat plat and other drawings and documentation
        conforming to the requirements of Section 18.10.030, technical reports in accordance with
        Section 18.10.050, supplementary materials as required by this Title and mailing labels (if
        required) for notifications, including a copy of all plans in PDF format;

     3. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner and, if applicable, authorized
        agent, in the form of an owner’s affidavit; and

     4. All items required on the Preliminary Subdivision Application Checklist published on Emigration
        Canyon’s official website.

B. Completeness Review.

     1. The Preliminary preliminary Plat plat application shall be carefully reviewed by the Planning and
        Development Services Division to determine whether or not it is complete as soon as practical
        after submission.

     2. If it is concluded that the Preliminary Plat application is not complete, the Director or Designee
        shall notify the applicant in writing within fifteen (15) business days:

         a. That the application is incomplete: and

         b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    3. Upon After notice being is given, an application deemed incomplete shall beautomatically
       terminated terminates after sixty (60) days if the necessary components to complete the
       application have not been submitted.

    4. At any time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-application
       meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss the application,
       plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the review process, the
       Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as well as the
       applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.

C. Complete Application.

    1. When the Preliminary Plat application is determined to include all the of the required
       documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director will release the
       fees for the applicant to pay.

    2. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application is complete, and the application
       will be deemed accepted by the Director or Designee. The date of acceptance will be noted for
       the record.

18.08.070 – Preliminary Plat Agency/DRC Review.

A. The purpose of a preliminary plat is to provide a review of a proposed subdivision prior to approval
   by the land use authority. It is intended that this review will help assure that the plans which are being
   prepared are in accordance with all applicable development codes and ordinances.

B. The Director shall review or cause to be reviewed, the complete preliminary plat application as
   follows:

    1. No later than fifteen (15) business days after submittal of a complete application, the
       Development Review Committee shall review the preliminary plat and prepare review comments.

    2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
       documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and
       specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee
       may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code Section 10-9a-303.

    3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats, subdivision
       improvement plans, and technical documents to the Development Review Committee and any
       other government agency and/or affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect
       the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project’s compliance with all
       applicable ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
       requirements.

    4. No later than fifteen (15) business days after submittal of a complete preliminary subdivision
       application, the Director or Designee shall provide all written comments to the applicant.

    5. Upon preliminary approval by the Development Review Committee, the Director or Designee shall
       schedule the application for review by the administrative land use authority.
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   6. The Development Review Committee, Director, or designee, may not engage in substantive review
       of subdivision improvement plans during the preliminary plan approval stage or at any other time
       prior to the beginning of the review cycles for subdivision improvement plans during final plat
       approval.



18.08.080 – Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval.

A. Following a review of the preliminary plat, the administrative land use authority, as designated in
   Section 18.08.010, shall act on the preliminary plat as submitted or modified. In addressing the
   questions in Subsection B, the land use authority shall refer to the ordinances in effect at the time
   that the applicant submitted a complete preliminary plan application.

   1. The application shall be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at a public meeting.

B. In reviewing the proposed subdivision, the administrative land use authority shall consider the
   following:

    1. Are the plans, documents and other submission materials (including technical reports where
       required) sufficiently detailed for proper consideration of the project?

   2. Do the submitted plans, documents and submission materials conform to applicable municipal
      standards?

   3. Does the proposed development conform to municipal zoning ordinances and subdivision design
      standards?

   4. Does any combination of natural or manmade conditions, encumbrances, easements, setbacks,
      geometry, or the dimensions of the lot leave an adequate buildable area for a reasonably sized
      main structure?

   5. Do any natural or manmade conditions exist on or in the vicinity of the site defined in the
      preliminary plat that, without remediation, would render part or all of the property unsuitable for
      development? Does the preliminary plat address these conditions?

   5. Does the preliminary plat provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road access to
      adjacent properties under all weather conditions?

   6. Does the preliminary plat provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road access to
      adjacent properties under all weather conditions?

   7. Does the preliminary plat impose an undue financial burden upon the municipality?

   8. Are the location and arrangement of the lots, roads, easements and other elements of the
      subdivision contemplated by the preliminary plat consistent with the municipality’s general street
      system, transportation master plan and/or applicable elements of the general plan?

   9. Does the preliminary plat recognize and accommodate the existing natural conditions?
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    10. Are the public facilities, including public utility systems serving the area defined in the preliminary
        plat adequate to serve the proposed development?

    11. Will the project contemplated in the preliminary plat conform to the purposed and intent of this
        Title as stated in Chapter 18.02?

C. The administrative land use authority may:

    1. Approve the preliminary plat;

    2. Approve the preliminary plat with reasonable conditions intended to ensure compliance with the
       standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title;

    3. Continue review of the preliminary plat, directing that changes be made to the preliminary plat
       so that it conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title; or

    4. Deny the preliminary plat because it does not meet the standards and objectives of the applicable
       zone and this Title.

D. If the plat conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone, all required standards
   and specifications, and this Title and has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
   sanitary sewer authority, or the local health department where culinary water or sanitary sewer
   services are not available, the administrative land use authority shall approve the preliminary plat.

E. If the preliminary plat is not approved, the Director or Designee shall notify the applicant in writing
   and give reasons for the denial.

F. The Director or Designee shall issue a preliminary plat approval letter with the conditions of approval
   and a copy of the approved preliminary plat. The receipt of said letter shall be authorization for the
   subdivider to proceed with the preparation of additional specifications for the minimum
   improvements required in Chapter 18.14 of this Title and with the preparation of the final plat.

18.08.090 – Submittal of the Final Plat, Engineering Drawings and Documents to the Development
Review Committee for Final Plat Approval.

A. Purpose. The purpose of the final plat of a subdivision is to present an accurate depiction of the layout
   of the subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a permanent reference for the
   sale of the property included within the Subdivisionsubdivision. The purpose of the final plat review
   is to ensure that the plat and the construction plans for the required improvements, including those
   comprising the Subdivision Improvement Plans as defined in Utah Code Section 10-9a-604.2, meet
   the applicable standards and specifications.

B. Application.

    1. The applicant shall submit a Final Plat application to the Planning and Development Services
       Division, which shall include:

        a. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or designee to clearly indicate
           the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent
           information;
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


       b. Submission of a Final Plat and other drawings and documentation conforming to the
          requirements of Section 18.10.040, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050,
          engineered construction plans for the improvements required in Chapter 18.14, and
          supplementary materials as may be required by this Title;

       c. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner or authorized agent; and

       d. All items required on the Final Subdivision Application Checklist published on Emigration
          Canyon’s official website.

   2. Completeness Review.

       a. The final plat application shall be carefully reviewed by the Planning and Development
          Services Division to determine whether or not it is complete.

       b. If it is concluded that the Final Plat application is not complete, the Director or Designee shall
          notify the applicant in writing within twenty (20) business days:

           i.   That the application is incomplete, ; and

           ii. Which specific components of the application are deemed insufficient.

       c. After notice is given, an application deemed incomplete automatically terminates after sixty
          (60) days if the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.

       d. At any time during or before the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a
          pre-application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss
          the application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the
          review process, the Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing
          agencies as well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.

   3. Complete Application.

       a. When the final plat application is determined to include all the of the required
          documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director or Designee
          will release the fees for the applicant to pay.

       b. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application submittal is complete, and the
          application is deemed complete and is accepted by the Director or Designee, the date of
          acceptance will be noted for the record.

C. Technical Review of the Final Plat and Construction Documents. The Director or Designee shall review
   or cause to be reviewed, the complete Final final Plat plat application and Construction construction
   Documents documents as follows:

   1. No later than twenty (20) business days after the day on which an applicant submits a final
      subdivision application, the Development Review Committee shall review the plat and/or
      construction plans, and prepare review comments.

   2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
      documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


        specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee
        may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code §Section 10-9a-303.

    3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats and technical
       documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or
       affected entity which the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
       the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable design standards and
       specifications, ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
       requirements.

    4. No later than twenty (20) business days after the submittal of a complete final subdivision plat
       application, or revised plats, plans or reports addressing previous Development Review
       Committee comments, the Director or designee shall provide all written comments to the
       applicant.

    5. Upon a determination that the application is consistent with applicable standards and conditions,
       the DRC Development Review Committee shall provide a written letter of approval to the
       applicant.

    6. If an applicant is proposing material changes to the preliminary plat, the Director or Designee
       may, but need not, restart the review cycle with respect to those portions affected by the material
       changes and direct the administrative land use authority to consider preliminary approval of the
       portions affected by the material change. Material changes include an increase in the number of
       proposed lots, changes to the location and/or configuration of streets including stub streets,
       and/or other changes deemed material by the DRCDevelopment Review Committee.

    7. If an applicant contests any requirements imposed by the DRC Development Review Committee
       as part of the final plat approval, the applicant may appeal the conditions of approval to the land
       use hearing officer in accordance with Section 19.20.030.

    8. The following actions must be taken within one (1) year of final plat approval, or the applicant
       must reapply for preliminary plat approval:

        a. The subdivision plat shall be recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; or

        b. A Site site Restorationrestoration/Durability durability Bond bond shall be posted with
           Planning and Development Services and a preconstruction meeting shall have been held with
           the DRCDevelopment Review Committee.

    9. The Director may grant a one (1) year extension provided the final plans have been updated to
       address any changes to the applicable ordinances and standards that may have been updated or
       changed since the time of the final plat approval.

18.08.100 - Combined Applications.

An applicant may submit an application for approval of a preliminary plat and a final plat simultaneously
if the subdivision does not include multiple phases. Such application shall be on a form provided by
Planning and Development Services. The combination application must contain both a preliminary plat
and a final plat that meet all requirements of this Title and all municipal, state and federal regulations
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


prior to approval by the planning commission. All other agency reviews shall also be conducted and
approved in accordance with this Title. Notwithstanding the foregoing, review of the final subdivision
application and plat may not begin until the preliminary subdivision application has been approved by the
administrative land use authority. Under no circumstances may the administrative land use authority
grant final approval.

18.08.110 – Recording the Final Plat.

A. Prior to recording the Final Plat, the developer applicant shall:

    1. Pay any remaining fees, and

    2. Provide Planning and Development Services with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest,
       and penalties owing on the land have been paid; and

    3. Complete all required improvements and post a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16.
       The required improvements shall all be inspected, approved and accepted by the Municipal
       Engineering staff; or

    4. Post a performance guarantee and a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16 and in an
       amount determined by the Municipal Engineering Division.

B. The final plat shall include all the required approval signatures (planning commission representative,
   Director, health department, district attorney, mayor, or their designees).

C. The applicant shall make an appointment with Planning and Development Services Staff to record the
   final plat in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

18.08.120 - As Built Drawings.

Prior to the final acceptance of the required improvements the applicant shall provide the Municipal
Engineering Department a complete and accurate set of as-built drawings in an electronic format
acceptable to the Municipal Engineer.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS




                      Chapter 18.10 – Documentation Requirements
Sections:

18.10.010 – Document Submittal Requirements.

All subdivision applications shall include, at a minimum, the documents identified in the preliminary and
final subdivision application checklist posted on the Emigration Canyon Official website.

18.10.020 - Concept Plan Specifications.

At a minimum, the following information and materials should be provided as a part of the Concept
concept Plan plan application package:

A. An accurate and up-to-date preliminary survey map of the property proposed for subdivision;
B. A vicinity map at a scale of 1:600 showing the property in relation to the general area of the
   jurisdictional limits in which it is located;

C. A schematic plat drawn clearly and accurately by a design professional at a scale appropriate for the
   nature of the project, to include:

    1. Scale, North Arrow, and Date of Preparation;

    2. Approximate topography;
    3. All primary and secondary conservation areas;

    4. Existing man-made features on the property;
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    5. Proposed streets, lots, public areas, open spaces, greenbelts, buffers, amenity areas, and other
       significant proposed improvements;

    6. Zoning setbacks, and the approximate area of each lot;

    7. Any other features that will be important in the design and development of the project; and

    8. Any off-site improvements that may be needed to properly develop the property.

D. A Grading and Drainage Plan which includes a conceptual plan for how excess storm water will be
   managed per Chapter 17.20 requirements;
E. Typical floor plans and elevations of the houses that are planned for the proposed subdivision; and

F. A Concept Plan Review fee

18.10.030 - Preliminary Plat Required Information.

The preliminary plat shall contain the information specified in this section and comply with the following
requirements:

A. Description and Delineation. In a Title block located in the lower right-hand corner of the plat, the
   following shall appear:

    1. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by Planning and
       Development Services;

    2. The location of the subdivision, including:

        a. Address;

        b. Section, township and range, base and meridian;

        c. When applicable, the name and phase of the recorded subdivision being amended; and

        d. Municipality and County.

    3. The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, if different than the owner, and of the
       designer of the subdivision; and

    4. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet) and the north
       point.

B. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:

    1. The location and elevation of project benchmark(s) referenced to published Salt Lake County
       Surveyor datum and its spatial relationship to existing Public Land Survey System monuments or
       their accessories;

    2. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and the total
       approximate acreage encompassed thereby;

    3. All property under the control of the subdivider, even if only a portion is being subdivided. Where
       the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a sketch of the prospective street
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


        system of the unplatted parts of the subdivider's land shall be submitted, and the street system
        of the part submitted shall be considered in the light of existing street system, general street
        plans, other applicable studies and adopted transportation plans.

    4. The location, width, names and jurisdiction of all existing streets within two hundred feet (200’)
       of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-
       of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
       permanent easements and section and municipal service district boundaries, within and adjacent
       to the tract;

    5. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within the tract
       and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100') beyond the tract boundaries;

    6. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract and to a
       distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes,
       grades, manholes, elevations, and exact location;

    7. Existing and proposed realignment of ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open
       waterways;

    8. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided land, showing ownership and
       parcel identification number;

    9. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2’). Highwater levels of all watercourses,
       if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;

    10. All existing fire hydrants within five hundred feet (500’) of the proposed subdivision, including any
        proposed to be located within the subdivision; and

    11. Accurate locations of all natural features such as lakes, ponds, perennial and ephemeral streams,
        creeks and other natural drainages, stormwater runoff channels, gullies, State Waters, Wetlands,
        floodplain boundaries, riparian buffers, Wildlife and Priority Habitats (as identified by the
        Department of Natural Resources), and other significant features, and notations designating any
        federal, state, or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may be required relative
        to development of or around such features.

    12. A graphic depiction of existing slope characteristics of the property, illustrating the following:

        a. Areas with slopes less than thirty percent,

        b. Areas with slopes thirty to forty percent,

        c. Areas with slopes forty to fifty percent, and

        d. Areas with slopes greater than fifty percent;

    13. Identified natural hazards, including but not limited to, areas potentially subject to avalanche,
        liquefaction, and/or surface fault rupture;

C. Proposed Subdivision Plans. The subdivision plans shall include:
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   1. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated by actual or
      proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements;

   2. The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots, and designation of buildable areas on
      individual lots.

   3. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside for
      use of property owners in the subdivision;

   4. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the land use authority;

   5. Typical street cross sections. The required street cross sections may be submitted as a separate
      sheet or as part of the construction plans. Grade sheets may be required by the planning
      commission or other reviewing agency;

   6. A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handle stormwater drainage for
      the subdivision.

D. Phasing.

   1. Where a subdivider proposes to submit a final plat containing less territory than shown on the
      preliminary plat, indicating a phased development plan, the preliminary plat shall identify each
      of the proposed phases. Any such final plat phasing scheme shall occur at logical "break points"
      in the project and provide access and utility services which will be adequate in the event that
      subsequent phases do not occur. The phasing scheme shall also incorporate the provisions of
      Chapter 18.12 of this title.

   2. A phase shall not include two or more non-contiguous areas on the same plat.

   3. No phasing scheme shall have the effect of leaving a residual lot, non-conforming parcel or
      previously divided land for which the required subdivision improvements have not been
      previously constructed. For purposes of this Title a "residual lot" shall be defined as a zoning lot,
      created by the proposed subdivision, but which is not shown as a lot on the final plat of the
      subdivision project or as future development. A future development parcel must be developable
      into multiple lots meeting the area standards for the applicable zone.

   4. If any requirement of this Title and the applicable standards is proposed to be satisfied by
      relation to or incorporation of components of another phase or related development, the
      applicant shall enter into a development agreement with Emigration Canyon governing the
      applicable phases or related developments or modify the application to satisfy all requirements
      independently.

E. Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
   subdivision development shall be presented to Planning and Development Services in writing prior
   to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include those relative to drainage, easements,
   protection strips and improvement bonds.

18.10.040 - Final Plat Required information.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


The final plat shall be prepared by a Professional Land Surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of approved
reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be oriented so that the
top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All text shall be a
minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat must contain all information required on the preliminary plat
with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except existing and proposed fire
hydrants), structures and fences (unless called monuments).

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

    1. The approved name of the subdivision;

    2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1”=100’;

    3. A Legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;

    4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers;

    5. The plat drawing must agree with the boundary description;

    6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
       boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important
       features. Boundaries, lots and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision boundary lines
       indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines. Easements
       shown as dashed lines;

    7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a precision of 0.00’;
       Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00’00”. Additional
       precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements;

    8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01’ on exterior subdivision boundary
       and 0.02’ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets;

    9. Basis of bearing between two, or more, public land survey monuments; or between identified
       monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat;

    10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and where applicable, to identified monuments in a
        recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record - if different;

    11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
        appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks, survey
        monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise
        position and in compliance with Utah Code 17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter
        14.17;

    12. The clearly labeled point of beginning;

    13. The sum of the lot line distances along the exterior of the plat must equal the boundary distance;

    14. Existing and proposed streets within two hundred (200’) feet. Dimension street width and identified
        street ownership;
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification numbers of
       adjoining lots and parcels;

   16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed lot
       lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line for
       proposed easements;

   17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length
       of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table;

   18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County’s record data. New street monuments
       will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s monument permitting process as specified in
       Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 14.17;

   19. The dedication to the Emigration Canyon of all streets and highways included in the proposed
       subdivision. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public
       agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such streets
       shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form
       approved by the municipal attorney;

   20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the
       subdivider's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved by
       the Planning and Development Services Division. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall
       be installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (SLCo Ord
       Chapter 14.17);

   21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance with state
       statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according to the
       plat;

   22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and industry
       standards; and



   23. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
       with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for
       common uses of all property owners;

B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:

   1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township &
      Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s);

   2. A survey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or subdivision
      monument;

   3. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a
      mathematical closure of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot or less;
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   4. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as
      necessary to define the intent of the description;

   5. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable;
      and

   6. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).

C. Standard Forms for the Following. The municipality may adopt a template establishing the excepted
   format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:

   1. A Professional Land Surveyor’s certificate of survey;

   2. The owner's certificate of dedication;

   3. A notary public's acknowledgement;

   4. The land use authority's certificate of approval;

   5. The health department's certificate of approval;

   6. Planning and Development Service’s certificate of approval;

   7. The municipal attorney's certificate of approval;

   8. The mayor’s certificate of approval, witnessed by the municipal recorder/clerk;

   9. The County Surveyor’s record of survey acknowledgment block; and

   10. A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for
       the Salt Lake County Recorder's use.

D. The final plat may require written acknowledgment of any legal documents recorded at the Salt Lake
   County Recorder’s Office completed as part of the approval process for the subdivision. The
   acknowledgment shall include the recorded number of the document after it has been recorded at
   the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

18.10.050 – Technical Reports Required.

A. The following technical reports are required for all subdivisions as part the preliminary plat
   application:

   1. Soils Report. The report shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, information with respect
      to slope analysis, general soils classification, suitability for development, erosion potential, any
      recommendations for proposed methods of mitigating any constraints determined to be present
      as part of the development plan, and any adverse impact on the natural environment.

   2. Stormwater, Grading And Drainage Plan: The plan shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
      information on groundwater levels, identification and mapping of drainage channels and systems,
      floodplains, existing details and contours where modification of terrain is proposed, the direction
      of proposed drainage flow, proposed plans and the location of all surface and subsurface drainage
      devices to be constructed as part of the proposed development, erosion control measures during
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


         the course of construction, identification of any grading and drainage problems such as the
         alteration of natural drainage patterns and any other problems of the proposed development,
         and a plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems and any adverse impact on the natural
         environment.

B. The following technical reports are required for subdivision in geological hazards areas subject to the
   Geological Hazards Ordinance in Title 19:

    1.    Geotechnical And Geology Report (Global And Site Specific): The report shall include, but is not
         necessarily limited to, identification and mapping of the location of major geographic and geologic
         features such as fault traces, surface ruptures, zones of deformation, potential slide and other
         high hazard areas such as mine shafts and avalanche paths, conclusions and recommendations
         regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development, recommendations
         covering the adequacy of sites proposed for development, and any potential adverse impact on
         the natural environment. This report shall be completed by a geotechnical engineer or an
         engineering geologist. The geotechnical report shall contain a certification in accordance with
         section 18.30.090 of this codeCode.

         The geotechnical investigation shall include soil borings extended to a depth sufficient to define
         the soil stratigraphy, water table and other features within the zone of significant stress of the
         proposed structural footings of the proposed development. If the development needs evaluation
         of slope stability then the soil borings will extend deep enough to define all soil layers in the zone
         of possible slippage.

         If published geologic maps show possible faults in the area or a surface geologic examination
         reveals signs of faulting then the geotechnical investigation will be supplemented by trenching in
         addition to the soil borings. The trenches will be so located as to intercept the apparent fault at a
         perpendicular angle to the trend of the fault. The trenching will extend a minimum of twenty feet
         (20') each side of the located fault. Developments of two (2) acres or more will require at least
         two (2) trenches to define the fault. One trench will be approximately where the fault enters the
         property and the other where it leaves the property. The trenches will be excavated to a depth
         that will define the fault and allow physical observation and measurement to be taken.

    2. Natural Conditions And Vegetation Analysis And Preservation Plan: This report and plan shall
       include a survey of existing trees, large shrubs and ground covers, a plan for the proposed
       revegetation of the site, detailing existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be
       planted and any modifications to existing vegetation, and the identification of any vegetation
       problems and recommendations as how to mitigate or eliminate such problems and avoid
       potential adverse impact on the natural environment.

    3. Fire Protection Report: The report shall include, but not be limited to, identification of potential
       fire hazards, mitigation measures, access for fire protection equipment and proposed fire flow
       capability.

C. The scope and content of these required technical reports and plans shall be in accordance with
   adopted standards. The Municipal Engineer may waive the necessity for submitting one or more of
   the technical reports or any elements of a report where, in its opinion, conditions associated with the
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    proposed development do not require consideration of the subject matter covered. Also, where the
    lot is contained within an approved subdivision and the technical reports previously submitted as part
    of the subdivision approval process are sufficient in scope and detail to adequately address the issues
    required under this Chapter, this requirement may be waived.

18.10.060 - Final approval—GIS Data Required.

A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any permit associated with a subdivision or
   development plan, or in the case of a single lot development or a single building permit, the owner or
   developer shall provide to Planning and Development Services the GIS data corresponding to the
   approved plans for all improvements required by Subsection 18.14.020(B). Any changes during
   construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built
   drawings. All GIS data shall be submitted in the following format:

    1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013, "Standards for
       Geographic Information System" and the "Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
       Standards," as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and on file with Salt Lake
       County Engineering. The municipality reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is provided and
       is not in compliance with the above standards.

    2. This shall be done at the developer or owner's expense. If a developer or owner does not provide
       the required GIS data, the municipality may complete the work on the developer or owner's
       behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the municipality the cost of completing the work
       at the hourly rate approved by the municipal council for such work. If the developer or owner fails
       to pay for such work, the municipality may pursue legal action to recover these costs.

    3. Developers with a cost as estimated by the Municipal Engineer of ten thousand dollars ($10,000)
       or less may, prior to construction, petition the Division for an exemption from the GIS
       requirements of this Chapter. The decision of the Director or Designee shall be final.

B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:

    1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
       crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments; streetlights and signals (including
       conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals).

    2. Storm drain system: Catch basins, manholes, fire hydrants, cleanout boxes, drainage areas,
       detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs, and
       pipes.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS




                               Chapter 18.12 - Design Standards
Sections:

18.12.010 - Departmental Standards.

A. Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street improvements, curbs,
   gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the Municipal
   Engineering and Flood Control divisions; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal
   facilities shall be prepared by the health department, and similar standards for fire hydrants shall be
   prepared by the fire department. All subdividers shall comply with the standards established by such
   departments and agencies of Emigration Canyon, provided that such standards shall be approved by
   the legislative body.

B. Subject to the provisions of Utah State Code §10-9a-508, no adopted design or construction standards
   shall have the effect of requiring the installation of pavement on a residential roadway at a width in
   excess of thirty-two feet (32’).
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


18.12.020 - Foothill and Canyons Design Standards, Generally.

The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open
spaces and other design factors shall conform with the standards contained herein.

A. Design Shall Further Purposes and Goals of the Emigration Canyon Zoning Ordinance. In subdivisions
   proposed for development in Emigration Canyon, the general layout of lots, roads, driveways, utilities,
   drainage facilities, and other services within the proposed subdivision shall be designed in a way that
   minimizes the amount of land disturbance, maximizes the amount of open space in the development,
   preserves existing trees/vegetation, protects critical wildlife habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the
   purposes and intent of the foothills and canyons design regulations.

B. Zoning Development Standards. Applicants shall comply with the development standards set forth in
   Title 19 in (1) the layout of the subdivision and (2) the designation of buildable areas on individual lots
   (see subsection C of this section) in order to avoid creating lots or patterns of lots that will make
   compliance with such development standards difficult or infeasible.

C. Designations of Buildable Areas. All preliminary and final subdivision plats shall outline buildable areas
   on each lot intended to accommodate planned principal and accessory structures. A building envelope
   shall be identified for each lot. Future construction on the lot is encouraged, but not required to be
   located within the identified building envelop for each lot; however, construction outside of the
   designated building envelop shall comply with the setback requirements for a conventional
   development.

D. Clustering of Lots. Clustering of lots within a subdivision is strongly encouraged and may be required
   by the planning commission to meet the requirements of this provision and the overlay zone.

E. Conformance with Design Standards. The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision
   in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open spaces and other design factors shall conform with the
   standards contained herein to the extent that they do not conflict with this Section.

18.12.030 - Streets and Roads, General Criteria.

A. Width. The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required street
   improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross section.

B. Relationship To Adjacent Streets. The proposed street system shall properly align and be compatible
   with adjacent streets. Offset intersections shall be avoided whenever possible, and any intersecting
   street with an offset of more than fifteen feet (15') shall be prohibited. The distance between
   intersections shall not be less than one hundred fifty feet (150') for local streets. This provision shall
   not apply to existing streets unless the development includes the realignment of existing streets.

C. Street Names. New street names may not duplicate those already existing within Salt Lake County. A
   street obviously a continuation of another already in existence should bear the same name. Before
   the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted to and approved by Planning and
   Development Services.

D. Access To Adjacent Properties. In order to facilitate the development of an adequate and convenient
   circulation system within Emigration Canyon and to provide access for the logical development of
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    adjacent vacant properties, the municipality may, as a condition of approval, require the subdivision
    plan to include one or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which extend to the boundary
    of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the boundary of the subdivision.
    Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent property shall provide for the continuation
    of any such stub street.

E. Temporary Dead End (Stub Streets). Where a final plat includes a dead end stub street which is
   intended to be continued into adjacent property in the future and which serves as the primary access
   for one or more adjacent lots, said final plat shall make provision for temporarily accommodating
   vehicular movement and the extension of utility services by designating temporary cul-de-sacs,
   turnaround areas, travel easements connecting the end of the stub street with other streets in the
   vicinity or such other temporary measure as may be approved by the planning commission. Such
   temporary facilities required pursuant to this provision shall remain until such time as the street has
   been extended into the adjacent property and the improvements accepted by Emigration Canyon.

F. Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be discouraged.

    1. Cul-de-sacs may be appropriate in cases where the possibility of future adjacent development
       does not exist due to topography or existing development, or where an additional through street
       would be unnecessary where the road cannot be extended through the property to another street
       elsewhere, where development has occurred on at least three (3) sides of the surrounding
       property, or where other special circumstances exist, as determined appropriate by the
       administrative land use authority after receiving a recommendation for the same from the
       Municipal Engineer in accordance with best practices. When permitted, permanent cul-de-sacs
       shall be designed in accordance with adopted standard drawings, each cul-de-sac stem shall meet
       the standard street requirement including right of way, pavement width, gutter, curb, and
       sidewalk within residential subdivisions. The maximum length of a cul-de-sac street shall be five
       hundred feet (500') from the center of the cul-de-sac to the centerline of the intersecting street.

    2. The land use authority may require a sidewalk connection through a cul-de-sac to allow for
       pedestrian connectivity to existing or future adjacent development and/or public streets.

G. Vehicle Access. Subdivision projects of twenty (20) lots or more shall provide at least two (2) points
   of vehicular access.

18.12.040 – Blocks (Reserved)

18.12.050 - Lots.

A. Design. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable
   sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of surrounding
   development, and to existing requirements. Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely
   to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.

B. Zoning Conformity. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the minimum
   requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of
   the health department for water supply and sewage disposal. Lots created as part of an approved
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   planned unit development, or subject to a development agreement are subject to the standards set
   forth in that approval or document.

C. Frontage.

    1. Each lot in a subdivision shall abut upon and have access to a street which is:

       a. Dedicated to the municipality by the subdivision plat;

       b. An existing publicly dedicated street;

       c. An existing public street which has become public by right of use;

       d. An existing private street that has been approved by the municipality; or

       e. Have an approved access via private right of way to a public street shown on the plan and
          approved under the criteria outlined in Subsection 2 of this Section.

   2. Emigration Canyon may approve a request for a new private street that complies with the
      following criteria:

       a. The street must be part of a planned unit development (PUD) or planned community where
          the municipality and the developer have entered into a development agreement;

       b. Private streets will only be allowed for streets that have no public interest for traffic circulation
          and connectivity;

       c. The final design and cross section of any private street shall be determined by the
           administrative land use authority based on recommendations from the Municipal Engineer.
           Unless otherwise authorized by the administrative land use authority, private streets shall
           conform to adopted street cross section and shall in no case less than twenty feet (20') in
           width.

       d. The maximum length of a dead-end private street shall not exceed five hundred feet (500');

       e. A note on the plat shall be included indicating that Emigration Canyon has no responsibility
          to improve or maintain the private streets contained within, or private streets providing
          access to the property described in the plat, nor does Emigration Canyon have responsibility
          for any of the infrastructure associated with the roadway such as sidewalks, drainage
          facilities, streetlights, curbs, and/or landscaping; and

       f.   The applicant shall provide a maintenance plan outlining how the private streets will be
            maintained.

D. Double Fronting Lots.

   1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where they may be
      essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential development from fronting
      on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific disadvantage or hardship imposed by
      topography or other factors. Such double frontage lots allowed within Emigration Canyon shall be
      constructed to the adopted engineering design standards; and
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access directly onto an
       arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each street side.

E. Angle of Lot Lines. Side lot lines or lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the street
   line, except where topographic or other conditions make it advisable to have side lot lines at sharper
   angles.

F. Multiple Ownership of Lots. Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more parcels
   in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line divides one or
   more lots, the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project and the final plat shall be signed by all
   affected property owners.

18.12.060 - Remnant Parcels and Nuisance Strips.

A. No subdivision or platting of a lot shall create a nuisance strip, residual lot, or remnant parcel of
   property less than the minimum lot area or width for the zone in which it is located.

B. If a remnant parcel is proposed, a phasing plan must be submitted demonstrating how the remnant
   parcel can be developed in the future.

C. Remnant land not included in the proposed subdivision or platting of a lot must be deeded to adjacent
   property, with the deed or other appropriate instrument being recorded at the same time as the
   subdivision or recording of a plat. The resulting deeds shall not result in additional parcels being
   created that are not within the subdivision boundary.

D. No lot may contain an elongated protuberance, or any other feature intended to deny frontage to
   another parcel.

18.12.070 – Flag Lots.

A. In order to subdivide an existing lot or parcel so as to create two or more separate lots or parcels
   (the base lot(s) adjacent to the street and a flag lot(s) to their rear), sufficient land area must be
   available to maintain:

    1. For the base lot(s), compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which
       the properties are situated, and

    2. For flag lot(s) less than one half acre in size:

        a. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
           situated if ownership of the land providing access to the flag lot(s) is retained by or conveyed
           to the owner of those lots, or

        b. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
           situated minus the land area included in the access easement across the base lot(s).

    3. For flag lot(s) in zones that require a minimum lot area of one half acre in size or larger:

        a. Compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which the
           properties are situated, exclusive of the land area encumbered for access purposes to the flag
           lot(s), whether by ownership or perpetual easement.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


B. Access to a flag lot or lots shall be provided in the following manner:

    1. Ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the person(s) or entities
       that own the balance of the land area included in the flag lot(s), or

    2. Retention of ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the owner of
       the base lot(s) fronting on the street, but only if conveyance of that land area would render the
       base lot(s) substandard with regards to lot width or lot area requirements applicable to the
       zone in which the properties are situated. If so retained, access to the flag lot(s) shall be
       provided through conveyance and recordation of a perpetual access easement for each lot,
       together with cross maintenance and liability agreements addressing the rights and
       responsibilities of the owners of the base lot(s) and the flag lot(s).

C. Access to a flag lot(s), whether by ownership of the land area across which such access is provided or
   through recordation of a perpetual access easement across the base lot(s), must be of uniform width
   from the flag lot to the intersection with the street right-of-way or easement upon which the base lot
   fronts in accordance with the following:

    1. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
       right-of-way or easement is less than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that connection
       must be no less than twenty (20’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel way
       is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

    2. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
       right-of-way or easement is more than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that connection
       must be no less than twenty-five (25’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel
       way is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

    3. A landscaping, irrigation, and fencing plan shall be submitted to create a buffer between the
       driveway and adjoining properties to mitigate the negative impacts of the access.



                          Chapter 18.14 - Required Improvements
Sections:

18.14.010 - Certification of Improvements.

No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without receiving a statement signed by Planning
and Development Services certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's plans and
specifications have been completed, or that an adequate performance bond has been submitted for the
required improvements as allowed under Chapter 18.16. The certification document is to certify that the
required improvements meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of Emigration Canyon, that
they comply with the standards and requirements of the health department, Planning and Development
Services, the Planning Commission and the fire authority serving the area.

18.14.020 - Storm Sewers.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and
catch basins and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system subject to the
approval of Planning and Development Services shall be provided and shall be separate and independent
of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a licensed
engineer not in the employ of the county, the MSD or Emigration Canyon and shall meet the requirements
in Title 17.

18.14.030 - Public Sanitary Sewer (Reserved).

18.14.040 - Storm Drainage.

No irrigation ditch or canal shall be used for storm drainage conveyance or storage. No ditch, canal or
other waterway shall be permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The
subdivider shall remove such waterways from property to be so dedicated prior to the construction of
required off-site improvements. The subdivider shall receive written permission of the appropriate ditch
or canal company or of the water users for all changes to ditches, canals, or other waterways and this
permission shall be provided with the final plat application.

18.14.050 - Street Improvements.

A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing
   and proposed, within the subdivision to Planning and Development Services. Plans and profiles are to
   be prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of Utah and shall be
   accompanied by the final plat. The subdivider must also provide all GIS data corresponding to the
   submitted plans as required by Section 18.14.020. Planning and Development Services shall, within a
   reasonable time not to exceed twenty (20) business days from the receipt of the plans and profiles,
   notify the subdivider of approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor. Such plans and
   profiles shall include:

    1. The designation of limits of work to be done;

    2. The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to County Policy 1013, “Standards
       for Geographic Information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
       Standards,” all profiles to be referred to in those standards;

    3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for the centerline of the street;

    4. Profile of all public storm drain system and any private system that connects to public system;

    5. Construction plans which include the details of street cross-sections, location and elevation of
       manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers, elevations and location of fire hydrants, location of
       existing and proposed public survey control monuments and street centerline monuments, and
       any other detail necessary to simplify construction;

    6. Complete date for field layout and office checking;

    7. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at points of
       curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure drainage at intersection;
                                           TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    8. The street address of the project as approved by Planning and Development Services and
       subdivision name if applicable.

B. At least ten days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall furnish to Planning
   and Development Services two bound 24”x36” hard copies of the complete set of approved
   construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and proposed, as well as all corresponding GIS
   data in a format compatible with this Chapter. The approved hard copy sets of the construction plans
   and profiles shall include all information required in Subsection A.

18.14.060 - Arrangement of Streets.

The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning commission. New streets must connect
with existing public streets.

18.14.070 - Utility and Facility Systems to Be Underground.

All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits,
and pipes providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water, sewer,
steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and transmission systems shall be
placed underground in accordance with municipal ordinances and policies subject to the Utility and
Facility System Placement Regulations in Title 19.

18.14.080 - Street Lighting (Reserved).

18.14.090 - Pavement Requirements.

A. All streets within the municipality shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in accordance
   with the standards, rules and regulations adopted by Emigration Canyon.

B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules and
   regulations adopted by Emigration Canyon.

18.14.100 - Curbs and Gutters.

A. The subdivider shall be required to install curbs, gutters and sidewalks only on those roads identified
   in an adopted transportation plan or as part of an executed development agreement where curb and
   gutter are required. When required, the subdivider shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks on both
   existing and proposed streets.

B. When required, curbs and gutters shall conform with Title 14 and Emigration Canyon’s adopted
   standards and specifications.

C. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty-five feet, or thirty-five feet on streets
   designated as collector or arterial streets. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for
   elevation besides those at points of curvature.

18.14.110 - Street Name Signs.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


Street name signs, conforming to the design and specifications and in the number provided by the
standards, rules and regulations of Emigration Canyon shall be provided by the developer at all street
intersections. Installation shall be made by the municipality to ensure uniformity.

18.14.120 - Trails.

The subdivider shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and other trails
shown on the general plan, any other adopted plan, or required by the planning commission. Trails shall
be located so that the route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; sideslopes shall
not exceed seventy percent and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions shall be
avoided. The specific location of the trail right-of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of
the subdivision. The amount of land required for trail dedication without compensation shall not exceed
five percent of the land within the subdivision excluding trails located within a standard street right-of-
way.

18.14.130 - Fire Hydrants.

Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of the Fire Authority.

18.14.140 - Stormwater Inlets and Catch Basins.

Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided by the applicant within the roadway improvements
at points (required to capture and convey stormwater per current standards and engineering standards
of practice or as otherwise) specified by the Municipal Engineer.

18.14.150 - Open Ditches and Canals—Permitted When.

A. Open ditches or canals shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear or side
   lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies as to:

    1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining the
       subdivision;

    2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

    3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such ditches, pipes
       and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads,
       specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by Planning and Development
       Services.

B. Non-pressurized irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.

    1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified, then verification is required.

    2. If irrigation components are present, they are checked to comply with the ordinance.

    3. The water master's signature is required on any sheet in the final construction plans which show
       irrigation components.

    4. Final approval of the construction plans shall be withheld until water master's signature is
       confirmed.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


18.14.160 - Hazardous Features—Fencing Requirements.

The subdivider shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in conformance with
the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section 18.20.010, along all open ditches,
canals or waterways, non-access streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad rights-of-way and
other such features of potentially hazardous nature on, crossing or contiguous to the property being
subdivided, except along those features which the planning commission shall determine would not be a
hazard to life, or where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety of the public.

18.14.170 - Fencing Requirements - Reserved

18.14.180 - Construction of Improvements.

A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the Municipal Engineering
   Division shall be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined
   whether or not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the municipal
   engineer of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary sewer, and water systems upon
   completion. Planning and Development Services shall retain the improvement bond until such plans
   have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all other associated
   agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed improvements or facilities
   within the roadway sections during development.

18.14.190 - Responsibility for Damages and Maintenance.

A. All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of development shall
   be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced or repaired to the satisfaction of the
   Municipal Engineer before final acceptance of any improvements, and bond release. Any damages
   that occur during building construction, shall be the responsibility of the builder, and will be
   satisfactorily repaired prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. At the discretion of the
   Municipal Engineer, additional bonding may be required.

B. All maintenance, including snow removal, for all bonded improvements or facilities within the public
   right of way shall be the sole responsibility of the subdivider while any portion of the performance
   bond related to those improvements is still held by the municipality.
                                      TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS




                        Chapter 18.16 – Performance Guarantees
Sections:

18.16.010 - Performance Guarantee Required.

Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this title, the performance guarantee
shall be submitted:

A. In conformance with this Chapter; and

B. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance guarantee.

18.16.020 - Performance Bonds.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual completion of
   the improvements listed in this Title, subdividers may file with the Planning and Development Services
   Division a performance bond to assure actual construction of such improvements within a one-year
   period and prior the recording of the final plat.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improvements prior to
   the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance bond for:

    1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or

    2. If the Municipal Engineer has inspected and accepted a portion of the required improvements,
       one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unaccepted improvements.

C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
   construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be established by the Municipal
   Engineer’s estimated cost of completion.

D. The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual lots within the
   subdivision which are required in this Chapter.

E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an irrevocable
   letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by the Planning and Development Services
   division and the subdivider:

    1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance bond shall
       expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued if the bonded improvements are not
       complete.

    2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond shall be
       considered foreclosed upon.

    3. If the project has not been completed by that date, all remaining funds shall be thereafter
       remitted to the Planning and Development Services division as set forth in the performance bond
       agreement.

    4. The 13 month period described in subsection (F)(1) may be extended only if special circumstances
       warrant extension, as determined by the director after consultation with the Municipal
       Engineering Division.

G. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates has been
   satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall
   be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance, which shall be in addition to the ten
   percent (10%) that must be retained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been
   installed.

H. The Director or Designee may establish objective procedures consistent with this section relating to
   the administration of performance bonds, including fund management, default and collection.

18.16.030 - Final Disposition and Release.
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, the developer shall
   submit to the Director or Designee, one copy of a written request for release.

B. After receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this Section, within five (5) days the
   Municipal Engineer shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit a report
   to the Director or Designee setting forth the condition of the facilities.

C. The Director or Designee shall receive the report and, within seven (7) days of the inspection,
   authorize release of a portion of the performance bond corresponding to the work completed and
   approved if the Municipal Engineer finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition
   of the improvements are satisfactory.

D. The portion of the bond to be held as a durability bond under Section 18.16.050 of this Chapter may
   not be release until the durability period has expired and an inspection has been conducted by the
   Municipal Engineer that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the
   improvements is satisfactory.

E. A bond may not be released if, after consulting with the Municipal Engineering Division, the Director:

    1. Finds that the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or does not
       comply with the acceptable standards of durability; or

    2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or

    3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding GIS data (as
       required) has not been submitted; or

F. If the bonds are not released, the reasons shall be given to the applicant in writing within seven (7)
   days from the time of the inspection.

G. In the case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this section, the Director may
   refer the matter to the Council for subsequent action to secure performance.

H. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
   3.56 of this code.

18.16.040 - Default.

A. Upon substantiating a finding under subsection B of this section, the Director with approval of the
   municipal council may, with due notice to the developer:

    1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and

    2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the
       performance bond to defray the costs.

B. A performance bond may be forfeited under subsection A of this section if the Director finds that a
   developer has failed or neglected to:

    1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;

    2. Make required corrections;
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    3. Make payment to the Planning and Development Services division for administration and
       inspections; or

    4. Otherwise failed to carry out the activity for which the performance bond was required.

C. The developer is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount.

D. Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned to the developer.

18.16.050. Warranty Bond, Phase I: Reclamation.

A. Prior to conducting any development activity, the developer shall submit with the Planning and
   Development Services Division a reclamation bond to ensure that the site can be made safe in the
   event the developer is unable to complete the required improvements.

B. The amount of the reclamation bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
   construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of
   the Municipal Engineer’s estimated cost of completion.

C. The reclamation bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an irrevocable
   letter of credit from a financial institution in the State of Utah.

D. At the end of the construction phase of the project, when the Municipal Engineer has approved and
   accepted the required improvements, the reclamation bond becomes the durability bond, with the
   final disposition and release subject to the same standards as the durability bond.

18.16.060. Warranty Bond, Phase II: Durability.

A. The Planning and Development Services division shall retain a durability bond in the amount of not
   less than ten percent (10%) of the initial amount of the performance bond or the applicant’s
   reasonable proven cost of completion. The durability bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an
   escrow agreement, or an irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution in the State of Utah.
   The durability bond shall be for the purpose of warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period
   of:

    1. One year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work; or

    2. Two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work, if the Director:

        a. Determines for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect the public
           health, safety, and welfare; and

        b. Has substantial evidence of any of the following:

            i.   Prior poor performance of the applicant;

            ii. Unstable soil conditions within the subdivision or development area; or

            iii. Extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would render impracticable the discovery
                 of substandard or defective performance within a one-year period.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


B. A determination under Subsection A2 of this Section shall be made by the Municipal Engineer in
   consultation with the Director.

C. If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements is found to be satisfactory, the
   retainage may be released following the procedure outlined under Section 18.16.030 of this Chapter.

D. The Director may authorize a release of fifty percent (50%) of the improvement durability bond prior
   to the warranty period, if determined appropriate based on a finding of:

    1. The project has been completed and found acceptable and all monies have been released except
       for the durability bond;

    2. An error in the initial amount of the performance bond or the original calculation of the durability
       bond; or

    3. Fact that was previously unknown to the Municipal Engineer that is material in a determination
       that the municipality's public health, safety, and welfare would still be adequately protected.

E. The person giving the durability bond shall correct the improvements if at any time during the warranty
    period:

    1. Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation;

    2. Certain work has not been completed or it becomes evident that certain work was not completed;
       or

    3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not otherwise comply
       with accepted standards of durability.

F. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director, with review from the municipal
   council, in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this Chapter, may declare the person in default and
   use the retainage to defray the cost of any required work.

18.16.070 Fee In Lieu of Required Improvements (Reserved).



                         Chapter 18.18 - Subdivision Amendments
Sections:

18.18.010 - Purpose.

This Chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and boundary
line adjustments.

18.18.020 - Boundary Line Adjustments.

A. If properly executed and acknowledged as required by law, an agreement between owners of
   adjoining property that designates the boundary line between the adjoining properties acts, upon
   recording in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder as a quitclaim deed to convey all of each
                                       TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


   party’s right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the agreed boundary line that had been
   the subject of the boundary line agreement or dispute that led to the boundary line agreement.

B. Requirements. Adjoining property owners executing a boundary line agreement described in
   Subsection A shall:

   1. Ensure that the agreement includes:

       a. A legal description of the agreed upon boundary line and of each parcel or lot after the
          boundary line is changed;

       b. The name and signature of each grantor that is party to the agreement;

       c. A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor’s signature;

       d. The parcel identification number and street address of each grantee for assessment
          purposes;

       e. A legal description of the parcel or lot each grantor owns before the boundary line is
          changed;

       f.   The date of the agreement, if the date is not included in the acknowledgment in a form
            substantially similar to a quitclaim deed; and

       g. Ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and other requirements are not
          created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not increased by any degree.

   2. If any of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is part of a subdivision lot,
      prepare an amended plat, to be approved by the land use authority designated by section
      18.08.010, before executing the boundary line agreement; and

   3. If none of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a part of a subdivision lot,
      ensure that the boundary line agreement includes a statement citing the file number of a record
      of a survey map on record with the County Surveyor.

C. Presumptions. A boundary line agreement described in Subsection A that complies with Subsection
   B presumptively:

   1. Has no detrimental effect on any easement on the property that is recorded before the day on
      which the agreement is executed unless the owner of the property benefitting from the
      easement specifically modifies the easement within the boundary line agreement or a separate
      recorded easement modification or relinquishment document; and

   2. Relocates the parties’ common boundary line for an exchange of consideration.

D. Metes and Bounds Parcels. A boundary line agreement that only affects metes and bounds parcels is
   not subject to:

   1. Any public notice, public hearing, or preliminary platting requirement;

   2. The review of a land use authority; or
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    3. An engineering review or approval of the municipality, except as provided in Subsection E.

E. Boundary Line Agreements when Dwelling Units are present.

    1. If a parcel that is the subject of a boundary line agreement contains a dwelling unit, the owners
       shall submit the boundary line agreement to Planning and Development Services for review.

    2. The purpose of the review is to ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and
       other requirements are not created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not
       increased by any degree.

    3. Planning and Development Services shall complete the review within 14 days after the day on
       which the property owner submits the boundary line agreement for review.

    4. If Planning and Development Services determines that the boundary line agreement is deficient
       or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement, the division
       shall, within fourteen (14) days, send written notice to the property owner that:

        a. Describes the specific deficiency or additional information required to approve the
           boundary line agreement; and

        b. State that the municipality shall approve the boundary line agreement upon the property
           owner’s correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information described
           in the notice;

    5. If Planning and Development Services approves the boundary line agreement, the division shall
       send written notice of the boundary line agreement’s approval to the property owner within
       fourteen (14) days.

    6. If a municipality fails to send a written notice within fourteen (14) days, the property owner may
       record the boundary line agreement as if no review was required.

18.18.030 - Subdivision Amendments.

A. Application Required. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in an
   approved subdivision that has been recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder may file an
   application with Planning and Development Services to request a subdivision amendment.

B. Plat Required. Upon filing an application to request a subdivision amendment, the owner shall
   prepare a plat in accordance with Chapter 18.12 that:

    1. Depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended;

    2. Includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;

    3. Describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and

    4. Includes references to the original plat.

C. Notice. The Director or Designee shall provide notice of the petition by mail, email, or other
   effective means to each affected entity that provides a service to an owner of record of the portion
   of the plat that is being vacated or amended at least ten (10) calendar days before the land use
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


     authority may approve the petition for a subdivision amendment.

D. Public Hearing Required. The planning commission shall hold a public hearing within forty-five (45)
   days after the day on which the petition is filed if:

     1. Any owner within the plat notifies the municipality of the owner’s objection in writing within ten
        (10) days of mailed notification; or

     2. A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed the
        revised plat.

E. Public Hearing Not Required. The public hearing requirement does not apply, and the planning
   commission may consider at a public meeting an owner’s petition for a subdivision amendment if:

     1. The petition seeks to:

         a. Join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner’s contiguous lots;

         b. Subdivide one (1) or more of the petitioning fee owner’s lots, if the subdivision will not
            result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

         c. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel if the fee
            owners of each of the adjoining properties join in the petition, regardless of whether the
            properties are located in the same subdivision;

         d. On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction imposed by
            the local political subdivision; or

         e. Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other attributes of
            lots within the subdivision that are not:

             i.   Owned by the petitioner; or

             ii. Designated as a common area; and

     2. Notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any applicable local
        ordinance.

F. An administrative land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment under
   this section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
   water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the subdivision.

G. A request to amend a public street or municipal utility easement is also subject to Section 18.18.050.

H. A request to amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:

     1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on
        that portion of the plat described in the petition; and

     2. The signature of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that portion
        of the plat described in the petition who consents to the petition.

I.   The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended plat making that
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    change, as provided in this Section. An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat
    that gives the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a plat
    already recorded in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

    1. The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:

        a. Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code; and

        b. Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in accordance Utah Code and
           has verified all measurements; or

        c. Has referenced a record of survey map of the existing property boundaries shown on the
           plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and

        d. Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.

18.18.040 - Approval of Vacation or Amendment of Plat

A. The administrative land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing
   an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that:

    1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

    2. No public street or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended.

B. The administrative land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or
   amendment is recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.

C. If the amended plat is approved and recorded in accordance with this section, the recorded plat
   shall vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary provision in a previously recorded plat of the same
   land.

D. The Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision by recording in the Salt Lake
   County Recorder’s office an ordinance describing the subdivision or the portion being vacated. The
   recorded vacating ordinance shall replace a previously recorded plat described in the vacating
   ordinance.

E. An amended plat may not be submitted to the Salt Lake County recorder for recording unless it is:

    1. Signed by the administrative land use authority; and

    2. Signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the plat that is
       amended.

F. A management committee may sign and dedicate an amended plat as provided in Utah Code, Title
   57, Chapter 8, Condominium Ownership Act.

G. A plat may be corrected as provided in Utah Code§ 57-3-106.

18.18.050 - Petition to Vacate a Public Street.

A. In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance with
   Utah Code, a legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance with
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


    this Section.

B. Application. A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or municipal utility easement shall
   include:

    1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:

        a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the two nearest public
           street intersections; or

        b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300’) of the public street or municipal
           utility easement;

    2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities
       located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought to be
       vacated; and

    3. The signature of each owner due notice who consents to the vacation.

C. Notice. If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street or
   municipal utility easement, the legislative body shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date,
   place, and time of the hearing as follows:

    1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the legislative body shall ensure that notice is:

        a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or municipal
           utility easement;

        b. Mailed to each affected entity;

        c. Posted on or near the public street or municipal utility easement in a manner that is
           calculated to alert the public; and

        d. Publish notice on the Emigration Canyon website and the Utah Public Notice Website until
           the public hearing concludes.

D. Determination. After having held a public hearing as required herein, the Council shall determine
   whether:

    1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

    2. The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation.

E. Adoption. The legislative body may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a
   public street or municipal utility easement if the legislative body finds that:

    1. Good cause exists for the vacation; and

    2. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation.

F. Recording. If the legislative body adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street or
   municipal utility easement, the legislative body shall ensure that one or both of the following is
   recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder:
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


     1. A plat reflecting the vacation; or

     2. An ordinance described in Subsection D and a legal description of the public street to be
        vacated.

G. Limitations. The action of the legislative body vacating some or all of a public street or municipal
   utility easement that has been dedicated to public use:

     1. Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded plat or
        ordinance, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the relinquishment of the municipality’s fee
        in the vacated public street or municipal utility easement; and

     2. May not be construed to impair:

         a. Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner;

         b. The rights of any public utility; or

         c. The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority.

H. Municipal Petition to Vacate. A municipality may submit a petition, in accordance with Subsection B,
   and initiate and complete a process to vacate some or all of a public street.

     1. If a municipality submits a petition and initiates a process under this subsection:

         a. The legislative body shall hold a public hearing;

         b. The petition and process may not apply to or affect a public utility easement, except to the
            extent:

             i.   The easement is not a protected utility easement as defined in Utah Code;

             ii. The easement is included within the public street; and

             iii. The notice to vacate the public street also contains a notice to vacate the easement; and

         c. A recorded ordinance to vacate a public street has the same legal effect as vacating a public
            street through a recorded plat or amended plat.

I.   Water and Sewer Easements. A legislative body may not approve a petition to vacate a public street
     under this section unless the vacation identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
     water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the public street.

18.18.060 - Amendments to Create Additional Lots.

An amendment to a recorded subdivision to create one or more additional lots shall follow the approval
procedure outlined in Chapter 18.08. Where the amendment does not include the creation of additional
infrastructure beyond service lines, this amendment process may utilize a streamlined final plat process.

18.18.070 - Other Amendments to Subdivisions.
                                        TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an easement,
private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the approval procedure
outlined in Chapter 18.08 with the following variations:

A. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly affected by the
   proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action; and

B. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and the
   approval of the administrative land use authority may be based on a final plat.

18.18.080 - Correction of Technical Errors.

An amendment to correct a technical error, such as misnumbered street addresses or an errant note on
the plat may be done through recording an affidavit of correction by the Director.




                         Chapter 18.20 - Filing Professional Surveys
Sections:

18.20.010 - Filing Required, Indexing and Fees.

A. Any licensed professional land surveyor making a boundary survey of private lands within this state
   who establishes or reestablishes any property boundary line; or to obtain data for construction of a
   map or plat showing the boundary line, shall file a map of the survey that meets the requirements of
   this Chapter with the Salt Lake County Surveyor within ninety days of the establishment or
   reestablishment of the boundary line.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


B. The County Surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter be a public record
   in the office of the County Surveyor and will be available for examination and purchase by the public.
   The County Surveyor will provide facilities for copying such maps and associated documents.

C. Fees will be charged for services in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.

D. The requirements of this section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for Monuments.

18.20.020 - Contents of Maps.

A. The County Surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to ensure that they conform to
   the requirements set forth in this Chapter before receiving them. Such maps shall be drawn on a
   twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch (24” x 36”) reproduceable Mylar using waterproof black drawing
   ink with text of not less than one-tenth inch in size; or submitted as a digital electronic file in a type
   and format approved by the Salt Lake County Surveyor; and shall show:

    1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;

    2. The date of survey;

    3. The scale of drawing and north point;

    4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and the
       distance and course to two or more section corners or quarter corners, including township and
       range, or to identified monuments within a recorded subdivision;

    5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of record;

    6. A written boundary description of property surveyed;

    7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;

    8. A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated separately;

    9. The surveyor's seal or stamp;

    10. The surveyor's business name and address; and

    11. Each boundary survey map shall reserve a one and one-half by four-inch (1.5” x 4”) space in the
        lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s use in indexing.

18.20.030 - Written Narrative.

The map of survey shall include a written narrative that explains and identifies the purpose of the survey;
    the basis on which the lines were established; and the found monuments and deed elements that
    controlled the established or reestablished lines.

18.20.040 - Marking Monuments.

A. Any monument set by a licensed professional land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a property
   of land or land line shall be durably and visibly marked or tagged with the registered business name
   or the letters "L.S." followed by the registration number of the surveyor in charge.
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


B. If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with the official Title of the office.

18.20.050 - Changes of Section or Quarter Section Corners.

A. If, in the performance of a survey, a surveyor finds or makes any changes to the section corner or
   quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing corner record or survey
   map in the office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor, the surveyor shall complete and submit to the
   County Surveyor a record of the changes made.

B. The record shall be submitted within forty-five (45) days of the corner visits and shall include the
   surveyor's seal, business name, and address.

18.20.060 - Compliance by Governmental Agencies.

Each federal or state agency, board or commission, special service district, or municipal corporation that
makes a boundary survey of lands within Salt Lake County shall comply with this Chapter.

18.20.070 - Amendment by Affidavit.

A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this Chapter may be amended
   by an affidavit of corrections:

    1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;

    2. To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or narrative; or

    3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable from the
       data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.

B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the licensed professional land surveyor who filed the
   map or narrative.

C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed the map or
   narrative, the Salt Lake County Surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.

D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.

E. The seal and signature of the registered professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of correction
   shall be affixed to the affidavit.

18.20.080 - County Surveyor Certification.

A. The Salt Lake County Surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the affidavit
   of correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or narrative are changes
   permitted under this section.

B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of redesigning parcel
   configurations.

18.20.090 - Penalty.

Failure to file a map of survey as required in this Chapter is guilty of an infraction.
TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


                      Chapter 18.22 - Health Department Regulations
Sections:

18.22.010 - Adoption of Health Regulations.

The regulating provisions of the of the Salt Lake County Health Department, entitled "Subdivisions," as
currently adopted by the board of health under authority of the Utah State Code are incorporated in their
entirety by reference. Three copies of the current regulations shall be filed with and retained by the county
clerk and the health department for examination by any person.

18.22.020 - Violations.

Violation of any provision of any health regulation incorporated into this Title shall constitute a Class B
misdemeanor as defined by the Utah State Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such.
                                          TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


                  Chapter 18.24 - Fees, Administration and Enforcement
Sections:

18.24.010 - Building Permit Issuance.

From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Title, the building inspector shall not
grant a permit, nor shall any municipal officer grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the
construction or alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in violation of any provisions
of this Title until a subdivision plat has been recorded or approved as required in this Chapter. Any license
or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall be void.

18.24.020 - Filing Fee.

Any and all persons filing plats with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall first have paid all fees required in
this Title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to the planning and development services division prior
to recording, an office checking fee as provided for in Section 3.48.020.

18.24.030 - Inspections.

Planning and Development Services shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, street
improvements, fire hydrants and water supply and sewage disposal systems in the course of construction,
installation or repair. Excavations for the fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals shall not
be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been approved by the service provider. If any
such installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered after notice to
uncover has been issued to the responsible person by the inspector.

18.24.040 - Enforcement Authority.

Planning and Development Services, Municipal Engineer, Fire Authority, and such other divisions as are
specified under the provisions of this Title are designated and authorized as the agencies charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this Title and shall enter such actions in court as are necessary.
Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions.

18.24.050 - Forms and Instructions.

Application forms and instructions for preparing and processing plats and plans in accordance with these
regulations are periodically updated. Current copies of these forms and instructions are available upon
request from the Director. Documentation requirements are also specified in Chapter 18.10, and
application completeness standards are articulated in Chapter 18.08. Applicants will be required to submit
such other information as may be required by the Director of Designee.
                                         TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS


                           Chapter 18.26 - Violations and Penalties
Sections:

18.26.010 - Prohibited Acts.

A. If a subdivision requires a plat, an owner of any land located in a subdivision who transfers or sells
   any land in that subdivision before a plat of the subdivision has been approved and recorded
   violates this Title for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.

B. The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or other documents used in the
   process of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from being a violation of this
   Subsection or from the penalties or remedies provided in this Chapter.

C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the recording of an instrument of transfer or
   other document used in the process of selling or transferring real property that violates this part:

    1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and

    2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the instrument or other document
       complies with applicable municipal ordinances on land use and development.

18.26.020 - Violation—Penalty.

Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this Title, including the violation of a condition, limitation
or requirement contained on a recorded subdivision plat, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction of any such violation, shall be punished as provided by the state criminal code for Class B
misdemeanors.

18.26.030 - Violation - Remedies.

A. A municipality may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to the
   provisions of this part or an ordinance enacted under the authority of this part.

B. An action under this Subsection may include an injunction or any other appropriate action or
   proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation.

C. A municipality need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.
