                                      Emigration Canyon Council
                                      Staff/Public Meeting Agenda
                                                     Amended

                                               September 24, 2024
                                                    7:00 PM
                                                www.ecmetro.org

                                                   In-Person at:
                                         Unified Fire Authority Station 119
                                         5025 E Emigration Canyon Road
                                            Salt Lake City, Utah 84108

                                             Virtual Meeting Via Zoom:
                                      https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84741164195

The public may attend this meeting in-person at the Emigration Canyon Unified Fire Authority Fire Station or via
Zoom at https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84741164195.

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or public who cannot
attend in person. Pursuant to state law and Emigration Canyon ordinance, council members may participate
electronically. Portions of the meeting may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of the
items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

                                                PUBLIC MEETING

7:00     1.    Welcome and Determine Quorum

                Joe Smolka, Mayor
                Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
                David Brems, Council Member
                Catherine Harris, Council Member
                Robert Pinon, Council Member

         2.    Pledge of Allegiance

7:05     3.    Recognize Visiting Officials

               3.1     Informational Presentation on a Proposed Salt Lake County Public Safety Bond – Laurie
               Stringham, Salt Lake County Chair

7:30     4.    Citizen Public Input

               Individuals wishing to comment via Zoom must access the meeting using the Zoom link above by
               the beginning of the “Citizen Comment” period. If an individual is unable to attend the meeting,
             they may email their comments to nsmedley@msd.utah.gov by 5:00 p.m. on September 24, 2024.
             Comments submitted by the deadline will be read for the record of the meeting.

        5.   Reports from other Municipal Providers

7:40         5.1    Unified Police Department Update – Detective Dawn Larsen

7:55         5.2     Certificate of Commendation Presentation for Officer Wilson - Lieutenant Luis Lovato,
             Unified Police Department

8:00         5.3    Unified Fire Authority Update & Evacuation Plan Discussion – Chief Bryan Case

8:15         5.4   Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District 2024 Report – Pam Roberts, General
             Manager/CEO

8:35         5.5    Emigration Improvement District – Eric Hawkes, General Manager

8:45         5.6    Zoning Ordinance Updates – Matt Starley, Long Range Planner II

8:55         5.7   Salt Lake County Animal Services – Gary Bowen, Emigration Canyon City Council
             Representative

        6.   Council Business

9:00         6.1  Capital Improvement Projects Selection Process (Discussion/Motion) – Tolin Hessell,
             SLCo Engineering

             6.2   Consider Adopting Ordinance No. 2024-09-01 Amending Emigration Canyon City Title I
             removing references to the County and Metro Township and other clean up items
             (Discussion/Motion) – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel

             6.3   Discussion regarding Excavation Bond Ordinance (Discussion) – Cameron Platt, Legal
             Counsel

             6.4    Billboard Ordinance Review (Discussion) – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel

             6.5    Special Event Ordinance Review (Discussion) – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel

             6.6    Legal Issues (Discussion/Motion)

             6.7    Ongoing Projects (Discussion/Motion)

9:55         6.8    Budget Items

                    (a)   Review of Expenditures (Discussion/Motion)

        7.   Council Member Reports

10:00        7.1   Council Member Brems

                    (a)    Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
                           Area (SLVLESA)
                    (b)    Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                    (c)    Community Renewable Energy Program
10:05         7.2   Council Member Harris

                     (a)    Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)
                     (b)    Watershed Plan

10:10         7.3   Council Member Pinon

                     (a)    Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
                     (b)    Utah Broadband
                     (c)    Update on Possible High-Density Development

10:15         7.4   Deputy Mayor Hawkes

                     (a)    Website (www.ecmetro.org)
                     (b)    CodeRED
                     (c)    Association of Municipal Governments
                     (d)    Utah League of Cities and Town

10:20         7.5   Mayor Smolka

                     (a)    Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)
                     (b)    Landfill Council
                     (c)    Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee
                     (d)    Council of Governments (COG)
                     (e)    Legislative Update

10:25   8.    Citizen Public Input

              Individuals wishing to comment via Zoom must access the meeting using the Zoom link above
              by the beginning of the “Citizen Comment” period. If an individual is unable to attend the meeting,
              they may email their comments to nsmedley@msd.utah.gov by 5:00 p.m. on September 24,
              2024. Comments submitted by the deadline will be read for the record of the meeting.

10:30   9.    Other Announcements

10:35   10.   Future Emigration Canyon Council Agenda Items

                     (a)    Unified Fire Authority Potential Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Tax Increase –
                            Chief Dominic Burchett an Tony Hill (10/22/24)
                     (b)    Subdivision Ordinance Update SB 174 (2023) & HB 476 (2024) – Jay Springer,
                            Smith Hartvigesen

10:40   11.   Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

                    (a)   Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health
                          of an individual;
                    (b)   Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation;
                    (c)   Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real
                    property, including any form of a water right or water shares
                    (d)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devises, or systems;

10:45   12.   Motion to Adjourn Meeting
Upon request with three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative, etc.). For
assistance, please call 385-508-5944 – TTY 711.

CERTIFICATE OF POSTING: A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date
posted below: Unified Fire Authority Station 119, Emigration Canyon website at www.ecmetro.org, and the Utah
Public Notice Website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/

Posted: September 23, 2024.

ZOOM:
Topic: Emigration Canyon City Council Meeting
Time: September 24, 2024, 07:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
Join Zoom Meeting: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84741164195
Public Safety Bond
slco.to/bond
Public Safety Bond
A product of extensive countywide collaboration, bipartisan input, and a
critical element of the County’s Systemic Reform Plan.


• Balances public safety and human services needs.

• Realigns and sets the Salt Lake County Jail and Human Services systems for success.

• Creates structured and secure environments to reduce repeat offenses and put
 people on a path towards self-reliance.

• Funds a critical missing element of the broader system.

• Replaces outdated infrastructure and treatment programs.
Quick Overview: Human Services, Homelessness,
and Criminal Justice Action Plan
Bi-partisan partnerships between Governor Cox, key legislators, the business
community, municipal leaders, and others in Salt Lake County are at an all time
high.

We are collectively moving forward with PURPOSE + PARTNERSHIP + URGENCY

To achieve a shared vision:

That homelessness is brief, rare, and non-recurring.
Systems were mapped, service gaps and barriers identified, other successes
evaluated, and costs analyzed.
              System Gaps & Barriers
                                                        Criminal Justice and Law
        Supportive Housing Needs                                                                       Systemic Gaps
                                                        Enforcement Challenges
An estimated 1,000 people are living             America’s drug crisis has led to increased        Workforce | Insufficient behavioral healthcare
unsheltered in Salt Lake County at any given     substance use and criminal activity on our        workforce.
time, requiring varying levels of intervention   streets.
and a stable living environment to put them on                                                     Health and Wellness Care | Insufficient
the path towards self-reliance.                  Jail is the largest mental health and substance   coordinated healthcare system for unsheltered
                                                 use treatment facility in the County– at great    population.
300 Intensive | 300 Moderate | 400 Light         expense to taxpayers. 50+ inmates are
                                                 unhoused and have a severe mental illness. Jail   Mental Health Services | Insufficient mental
                                                 stays are 3.5x longer for people experiencing     health capacity for unsheltered in the
                                                 homelessness.                                     community and in the jail.


                                                 $136 daily cost per inmate                        Integrated Data System |To better serve
                                                 25% inmates unhoused                              clients and evaluate system outcomes.
                                                 1,200 unstably housed on probation & pre-trial
Salt Lake County Action Plan
Solutions:

    Expand Housing Unit   Build Justice & Accountability
    Availability          Center

    Enforcement and       Expand and Improve County
    Criminal Justice      Jail Mental Health Access
    Reform
                          Support Drug
    Address Systemic
                          Enforcement (DEA)
    Gaps
                          Task Force
                                                       5
Public Safety Bond
Addresses Vital Parts of the Action Plan

    Address Systemic Gaps


    Expand Housing Units                         Public Safety Bond is a catalyst for
                                                 essential parts of the systemic plan:
                                                  •   Justice and Accountability Center;
    Build Justice & Accountability Center             including structured space for:
                                                        • Mental Health and Substance Use
                                                            Services
                                                        • Job Training & Employment
    Enforcement and Criminal Justice Reform                 Resources
                                                        • Connection to Housing
                                                            Opportunities
                                                  •   Combine Two County Jails; including:
    Improve & Expand Jail + Mental Health Unit          • Updated and Increased Mental
                                                            Health Units


    Support Drug Enforcement (DEA) Task Force
Justice & Accountability Center
Supervised and secure alternative for low-level offenders with resources to reduce repeat offenses and support
people’s path to self-reliance.

                                  Wrap-Around
                                  Stabilization Units
                                  • Dedicated Case Workers
                                  • Job Training and Employment           Approximately $75/day (per occupant)
                                    Services                              $60/day less than jail
                                  • Mental Health and Substance Use
                                                                          $22,500/yr less than jail
                                    Disorder Treatment
                                  • Connection to Housing Options         $6.8M less per year than jail at full
                                                                          capacity
                                  Behavioral Health
                                  Stabilization Units
                                  Intensive mental health/substance use
                                  treatment unit to prepare people to
                                  transition to the Wrap-Around space.
County Jail System Revamp
Combine the two county jails; increase capacity, expand mental health unit, and build stepdown unit
           Oxbow
                                                                             General Population
                                                                             (Includes SUD Treatment Unit)
                                                                             Increased general population; built for future
                                              Adult Detention Center         growth as well as improved substance use
                                                     (Expanded)              disorder treatment unit.

                                                                             Mental Health Unit
                                                                             Expanded and modernized behavioral
                                                                             health unit to better serve population.

                                                                             Community Reentry
                                                                             Stepdown Unit
    Adult Detention Center                                                   Transitional unit to help prepare inmates to
                                                                             rejoin society on a path towards self-
                                                                             reliance.

                                                                             Total Newly Constructed Beds = 812
                                                                             Rebuild Oxbow Capacity (552 beds)
                                                                             Renovate and enhance mental health pod (160
                                                                             beds)
                                                                             Build Reentry Stepdown Unit (100 beds)
Public Safety Bond
Quick FAQs

  Justice & Accountability Center                                              County Jail System Revamp
  Cost-reducing diversionary and stabilization space for low-level offenders   Combine two county jails to improve efficiencies and reduce operational
  and those exiting the jail in need of a structured environment with          costs. Build additional capacity, including expanded mental health space
  resources to put them on a path towards self-reliance                        and a transition to prepare those exiting jail to reenter the community

  •   Connected to the Criminal Justice System
                                                                               • Oxbow near end of lifespan (half-century old)
  •   25% exiting jail lack stable environment
                                                                               • $90M+ would only extend life a maximum of 10 – 15 years
  •   1,200 on probation or pretrial lack stable environment
                                                                               • No additional capacity constructed since 2001, while population has
  •   Supervised and secure treatment facility
                                                                                 grown by more than 300,000
  •   Drug-free environment
                                                                               • Population growth requires additional space
  •   Resources to reduce repeat offenses
                                                                               • Jail system stricken with logistical and operational challenges
  •   Approximately $75/day (per occupant)
                                                                               • Construction of Community Reentry Stepdown Unit
         •    $60/day less than jail
                                                                               • Transition back to community on a path towards self-reliance
         •    $22,500/yr less than jail
                                                                               • Additional Law Enforcement and Public Safety Capital Investments
         •    $6.8M less per year than jail at full capacity
                                                                               • Adult Detention Center maintenance and improvements
                                                                               • Sheriff’s Office Bureau maintenance and improvements
   Total Capital Cost
   General Obligation Bond


          FACILITY                   COST

Maintenance & Improvements
                                   90,000,000
ADC/SOB
Jail Expansion + Improvements     427,000,000     IMPACT        MONTHLY                ANNUAL

                                                  Residence         $4.91                $58.94
Justice & Accountability Center   100,000,000
                                                  Business          $8.93               $107.16
Sale of Oxbow Property            (20,000,000)
                                                       Based on Avg. Property Value of $602,000

Oxbow Demolition                   10,000,000

County Set Aside                  (100,000,000)

TOTAL BOND                        507,000,000
BOND LANGUAGE
Shall Salt Lake County, Utah, be authorized to issue general obligation bonds in an amount not to
exceed $507,000,000 and to mature in no more than twenty-one (21) years from the date or dates of
issuance of such bonds for the purpose of financing:

1) Acquiring and constructing a Justice and Accountability Center primarily for people who have
had multiple encounters with law enforcement and who need a supervised and structured
environment with resources to reduce repeat offenses, including for mental health and substance
abuse treatment, job related services, and connection to housing opportunities;

2) Combining the two county jails into one and increasing capacity, including an expanded mental
health unit and a transitional unit to prepare those exiting the jail to reenter the community;

3) Completing necessary capital maintenance on existing correctional facilities; and

4) Acquiring, constructing, expanding, equipping, renovating and remodeling related County public
safety facilities and ancillary buildings under the charge of Salt Lake County, Utah; and, to the extent
necessary, for providing moneys for the refunding, at or prior to the maturity thereof, of general
obligation bonds of the County authorized hereunder or heretofore issued and now outstanding?
Questions?
More info: slco.to/bond

Additional info/follow up:
Brad Townley
385.202.6067
btownley@saltlakecounty.gov
Thank you!
Public Safety Bond
Salt Lake County is moving a bond question to the public to finance significant countywide
criminal justice system needs and improvements.


What Will the Public Safety Bond Cover?
 Consolidating and Improving the County Jail:
     Consolidating the two county jails to improve efficiencies and reduce
     operational costs.
     Increasing mental health beds and providing expanded mental health treatment.
     Expanding for future population growth. Since 2001, not a single jail bed has
     been added. Yet, Salt Lake County’s population has increased by nearly
     300,000 people over the last 20+ years.
     Building a Community Re-entry Step Down Unit to help people leaving jail
     prepare to rejoin society. This will provide a dedicated space where inmates
     preparing to exit jail will be connected with case workers and providers who will
     identify risks, needs, and the resources needed for them to rejoin society on a
     path toward self-reliance.
 Building a Justice and Accountability Center:
     Primarily for low-level offenders who are repeatedly involved in the criminal
     justice system because of underlying issues, such as unstable housing, and
     mental health and substance use disorders that have not been addressed.
     The Justice and Accountability Center will provide intervention in the form of a
     structured environment with resources to stop the cycle of criminal behavior,
     including dedicated case workers, job training and employment services, mental
     health and substance use disorder treatment, and connection to housing
     opportunities.
     Holds people responsible for their actions while simultaneously helping them
     reenter our community on a path toward self-reliance.

Why is the Public Safety Bond on the Ballot?
     The Public Safety Bond for the Justice and Accountability Center and Jail
     expansion is a key part of Salt Lake County’s comprehensive Human Services,
     Homelessness, and Criminal Justice Action Plan. More info: slco.to/plan
     America’s drug crisis has led to increased substance use and criminal activity
     on our streets. In addition to the County’s expanded Drug Enforcement Agency
     (DEA) Task Force, law enforcement and community resources like the Justice
     and Accountability Center and Jail Re-entry Step Down Unit will help break the
     cycle of repeat offenses.

                                                         Public Safety Bond | Page 1 of 2
                                                                              04SEPT24
            Facility Needs                               Bond Costs



   Maintenance and Improvements:
        Jail (Adult Detention                           $90,000,000
   Center)/Sheriff’s Office Building




  Jail Expansion and Improvements                      $427,000,000



  Justice and Accountability Center                    $100,000,000



          Oxbow Demolition                              $10,000,000



                              TOTAL:                   $627,000,000



               Source                                   Cost Offsets


             Oxbow Sale                                -$20,000,000



          County Set Aside                             -$100,000,000



                          Bond Total:                  $507,000,000



 Taxpayer Cost:
    Average household: $58.94/year, under $5/month
    Average business: $107.16/year, under $9/month


More info: slco.to/bond

                                                     Public Safety Bond | Page 2 of 2
                                                                          04SEPT24
                          Salt Lake County Human Services, Homelessness,
                          and Criminal Justice Reform Action Plan

We have arrived at a unique time
in which Governor Cox, key legislators, the business community, Salt Lake County, Salt Lake City and other cities in
Salt Lake County are investing more directly in solutions to help homelessness, which is different than in previous years.
Within this momentum, we’re collectively moving forward with PURPOSE + PARTNERSHIP + URGENCY.



To achieve the shared vision
that homelessness is brief, rare, and non-recurring, it is essential that the systems
connected with homelessness intersect and are functional. These complex systems include:
CRIMINAL JUSTICE, HOUSING AND TEMPORARY SHELTER, AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH TREATMENT AND WORKFORCE.
A weakness in any one element of the system as a whole, leads to a loss of efficiency and effectiveness.



Salt Lake County has
MAPPED THE GAPS IN THE SYSTEM, IDENTIFIED BARRIERS, AND ANALYZED THE COST
of necessary additional investment. These are in alignment with the state’s homelessness strategic plan
and the Coordinated Homeless Services Plan signed by Governor Cox, Mayor Mendenhall,
and Mayor Wilson in the Fall of 2023.




                                  Our Goals
                                   Bolster System Access
                                   Create an efficient system to access housing, behavioral health,
                                   employment, and other needed services to reduce the number of people
                                   living on our streets, and develop clear, successful pathways to housing
                                   and additional opportunities for people experiencing homelessness.

                                   Increase Collaboration/Efficiency = Reduce Costs
                                   Increase collaboration and systemic efficiency to
                                   realize cost savings and improved client outcomes.

                                   Require Criminal Accountability
                                   Hold people accountable for criminal acts and prevent
                                   people from further penetrating the criminal justice system.

                                   Decriminalize Homelessness
                                   Ensure accountability in our communities
                                   while not criminalizing acts related to homelessness.

*Data from Homeless Management Information System
                                                                                                                                             02



               Supportive Housing Need
               Salt Lake County estimates that 1,000 people are living unsheltered within the county.

               300 people require intensive mental health                           400 people need various levels of
               treatment and housing support such as                                housing which could be permanent supportive
               residential or ACT team levels of care.                              housing or rental subsidies with less intensive
                                                                                    behavioral health supports.
               300 people require permanent supportive
               housing with case management and a
               focus on mental health support.




               Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Challenges
               • Systems are not aligned nor coordinated.
               • America's drug crisis has led to increased drugs on our streets.
               • Law enforcement response for people who are homeless or in mental health crisis is not standardized.
               • Inconsistent Crisis Intervention Trained (CIT) officers.


               Due to a lack of affordable housing and sufficient                   Length of stay in jail is 3.5x longer for those in
               mental health treatment and other social services,                   emergency shelters vs those in more permanent housing.
               jail has become the defacto system to serve people
               experiencing homelessness who have mental illness                    Over 50 unhoused people in jail at
               and substance use disorders.                                         anytime, have a severe mental illness.

                                                                                    1,200 people who are in pretrial
                                                                                    and probation, are unstably housed.




                Systemic Gaps
                 Workforce:
                 Insufficient behavioral health workforce for mental health treatment and supportive housing needs.

                 Health and Wellness Care:
                 Insufficient coordinated health and wellness care system to meet the needs of people experiencing homelessness.

                 Mental Health Services:
                 Insufficient mental health capacity to serve those with severe mental illness in the community and in the jail.

                 Integrated Data System:
                 Need for integrated data system to better serve clients and evaluate system outcomes.




*Data from Homeless Management Information System
                                                                                                                   03




                     Solution: Expand Housing Units in Salt Lake County
                     Bring an additional 1,000 units online over the next 5 years.




                      Current Housing                                Additional Housing Needed

                      92                                             300
                      Units operating in the group home facilities   New Group Home Units



                      115                                            300
                       Permanent Supportive Housing Units            New Permanent Supportive Housing Units
                       focused on mental health                      focused on mental health


                      765                                            400
                      Transitional and Permanent                     New Permanent Supportive Housing
                      Housing Units                                  Units for people experiencing homelessness




                Progress:

                •     Opened Valley Oaks Group Home with 29 beds in November, 2023
                •     Opened Canyon Rim Group Home for 40 women in Millcreek on April 15, 2024
                •     Potential renovation and expansion (12 beds to 40) of existing group home – Salt Lake City
                •     Two sites purchased by non-proﬁt partner for development of permanent supportive
                      housing for those with serious mental illness (approximately 90 units)
                •     Studying capital and construction costs for a mix of housing to meet the 400 general PSH.




*Data from Homeless Management Information System
                                                                                                                                       04




                       Solution: Enforcement and Criminal Justice Reform
                                Engage in system policy change and reform, to bring
                                about cost savings and efficiencies for better outcomes.

                         Provide:
                         Regional SLCO-wide Crisis Intervention Training for local law enforcement.
                         Progress: Criminal Justice Advisory Council (CJAC) Work Group has been established and is working on a
                         plan to implement/fund. Applying for Federal funding to support for training and coordination.

                         Work:
                         With State to design and implement an effective HOME Court program.
                         Progress: SLCO Human Services is working with the state DHHS and court system on an implemen-
                         tation plan - $2M funded for 5-year pilot.

                         Support:
                         Regional Law Enforcement education and training for use of the new Receiving Center alternative to jail for
                         those in substance use disorder (SUD) and mental health crisis.
                         Progress: CJAC Work Group has been established and is working with state and LE
                         partners on guiding criteria and educational campaign for Spring 2025 opening.

                          Reinforce:
                          SLC Justice Court Familiar Faces program.
                          Progress: This program is operational at the SLC Justice Courts. SLCO Criminal Justice
                          Services is partnering with the court to support this initiative. The program continues to grow.




                       Solution: Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) Task Force
                        By further investing we can continue to get
                        drugs off the street and hold criminals accountable.
                        The federal government provides hard cost support                  DEA operations have not been as extensive
                        for the local DEA operations but the salaries of the               as possible due to the decentralized law
                        enforcement officers is a local responsibility.                    enforcement system in Salt Lake County.

                        Many local jurisdictions cannot afford officers.
                        Estimated Annual Amount =
                        $1,600,000 for 10 additional officers


                 Progress:
                 •     DEA Task Force Leadership presented to the SLCO Council on April 9, 2024
                 •     DEA Task Force Leadership presented to the Criminal Justice Advisory Council on April 10, 2024
                 •     DEA Task Force Expansion Working Group has been added to the Systemic Reform Committee
                       structure to be led by Sheriff Rosie Rivera to review and determine the timing/cadence of adding 10
                       new DEA Task Force officers, the funding (County & Federal) and evaluate systemic impacts of the
                       expansion to determine if other gaps are created and/or need to be addressed



*Data from Homeless Management Information System
                                                                                                                                                05



                    Solution: Build An Accountability and Justice Center
                      1. Add 100 bed community correctional step down model as part of the jail
                      expansion to provide behavioral health treatment, workforce training, and other
                      supports in an environment of accountability as people prepare to leave jail.
                      2. Build 250-300 housing units focused on housing stability, mental health
                      services, training and other support services for those with criminal involvement
                      and experiencing homelessness or housing instability.


                      Progress:

                      •     System Mapping and Personas Research Completed
                      •     Held 2/4/24 Mapping and Personas Workshop for review and feedback with stakeholders
                      •     Held 2 half day retreats with County Elected Officials, Staff and Legislators 3/11/24 & 3/14/24
                            to discuss and determine jail expansion and justice accountability center model
                      •     Final decisions, programs and cost estimates in process
                      •     On track to ﬁnalize and submit to County Council a ballot initiative in August for placement on
                            the November 2024 ballot for voter approval



                          Solution: Address Systemic Gaps
                           Workforce:
                           Implement workforce training programs and a peer support specialist program to
                           help meet service needs and provide employment opportunities.

                           Progress: Convening local peer support coalition to support their needs and receive feedback for program
                           expansion. Program expansion ready for implementation once funding source is determined. Federal appropriation
                           submitted through Congressman Curtis’s office for pilot program. Additional applications for federal funding are being
                           drafted. Also, SLCO supported legislation passed this session to assist with workforce needs.

                           Health and Wellness Care:
                           Expand medical and street services for those who are unsheltered.

                           Progress: Program is developed and ready for expansion through 4th Street Clinic and VOA once funding
                           source is determined.

                           Mental Health Services:
                           Expand mental healther supports in the jail and in expanded SMI housing.
                           Progress: Need currently being evaluated and ﬁnalized within the Jail Expansion/JAC design model.

                           Integrated Data System:
                           Develop data sharing agreements and design and implement an integrated data system to support better client outcomes.

                           Progress: Work group has been established and data integration mapping both internal and external to SLCO
                           is underway.




*Data from Homeless Management Information System
                          Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
  Report for the City of Emigration Canyon Council Meeting September 24, 2024




Our Vision: A sustainable organization that provides for the welfare of our communities.

Our Mission: To provide sustainable quality integrated waste and recycling collection services for the health and safety of
our community…because not everything fits in the can.
                                          Employee Satisfaction & Engagement

10 New Trucks Have Arrived & In-Service              A few Photos from the Garbage        Leadership Development and
This helps with driver morale:                           Person Day Celebration               Team Strengthening
Fewer breakdowns, down time,
                                                                                     Our Executive Team, including Pam, Hazel,
better AC systems in hot temps, etc.
                                                                                     Matt, David and Renee attended the Mind
                                                                                     Body Bridging Workshop on June 27th.
New Side Load Truck with CNG Tanks on the Tailgate
                                                                                     The facilitators included Dr. Derrick Tollefson,
                                                                                     and Jontrell from the I-Systems Institute at
                                                                                     Utah State University, and Steve Hansen, the
                                                                                     Trust’s Executive Director. The purpose of
                                                                                     this work is to promote productivity in the
                                                                                     workplace as individuals and as teams.
                                                                                     Our Management Team met with our
                                                                                     leadership consultant, Pam Gardiol, on
                                                                                     Tuesday, June 9th for a regroup as we tackle
                                                                                     our current and upcoming challenges as an
                                                                                     organization. Pam holds a Master's degree in
                                                                                     Organizational Management and a
                                                                                     Bachelor's degree in Social Work and
                                                                                     Psychology.
                                                                                     The objective is to get back to the basics of
                                                                                     leadership and focus on our strengths as
                                                                                     individuals and as a team to advance our
                                                                                     goals and our organization.
     HB 107 and WFWRD’s Approach to Help Our Cites & Towns Meet Reporting Requirements
WFWRD staff have created an additional page called District Stats on our website under the About tab that is specifically for reporting collection
tonnages by commodity. https://live-wasatch.pantheonsite.io/node/155




                                                             Staff will add a link for each of the cities and towns to click and access their respective
                                                             recycling tonnage information. We will also provide stats and updates specifically for HB 107
                                                             compliance for in each city and town’s newsletter at least twice a year in compliance with this
                                                             State Statute.
 January - August 30, 2024, Tonnages and Diversion for Emigration Canyon

                  Curbside Refuse and
                  three Container Sites
                  (Garbage): 465 Tons
                                                                                             We proudly service 607 homes in the City out of
                  collected and disposed
                  at $37.00 per ton.                                                          the 86,000 in the District.

                                                                                             Residents of Emigration diverted 25.8% of waste
                                                                                              from the landfill! District-wide 18% diversion,
                                                                                              which is our goal.

                                                                                             Average disposal fee for Emigration Canyon
                                            25.8%                                             curbside & container garbage = $37.00 per ton. (SL
                                           Diverted                                           Valley Transfer Station)

Curbside Green Waste:                                                                        Average processing fee for recycling = $42.00 per
                                                                      Curbside Recycling
Approximately 42 Tons
                                                                      and three container
                                                                                              ton. ($22.00 per ton less than 2023)
Diverted (90 Subscribers)
                                                                      sites: 101 Tons
                                                                      Diverted               Processing for green curbside = $17.00 per ton.
.26 tons of Christmas Trees
collected in January.

17 tons from 40 green
                                                      Glass: No cost for processing.
trailer reservations.
                                                      Approximately 10 Tons
Delivered to Diamond Tree
                                                      Diverted (61 Subscribers)
for composting.
         Annual Trailer Reservation Stats and Updates on Container Sites

WFWRD offers canyon residents one trailer reservation each year for bulky
waste or green waste clean up. 2024 sets a record for the most trailers
reserved at 89 total. We are happy that residents are taking advantage of this
service.




District staff are thankful for the advocacy and partnership with the City
Council and the residents who use these sites to help reduce illegal dumping
at the container sites.

A special thanks to Board Member Pinion for his ongoing support, quick
communications when there are issues and his diligence to ensure
compliance.
                                           District Updates and 2025 Budget Discussions
Our Board has been discussing the likelihood of raising fees for services in 2025 to manage rising costs. The main cost drivers account for close to $5,000,000 increased costs, which
equates to $5.00 per month per home. These categories and costs are as follows:




Considerations: Wages are the highest increase year over year due to the rapidly rising salary markets especially for CDL drivers. For example, on Monday, August 26, 2024, our board
approved a 7.61% salary market adjustment for our CDL drivers to stay within markets. This adjustment is doable without a budget adjustment due to under expenditures from driver
vacancies, which is a double-edged sword.

The last fee increase was implemented in 2023 with $2.50 per home/month increase moving to the current $19.50 per mo./$58.50 per qtr./$234 annual.

There was a five-year period since 2018 when fees were raised $2.25 per home/per month, to $17.00 from $14.75 per month. Prior to 2018, fees increased in 2014 with $2.00 per
month from $12.75 per month to $14.75.

Staff have engaged with Zions for financial advisory services as we work to manage the rising costs for providing waste and recycling collection services for our residents. We are
seeking advice and recommendations on fee structures and billing frequency, revenues and options for funding sources that may include leasing heavy equipment. Incurring debt
would be a first for WFWRD but our board may choose this as an option to reduce the amount of a needed fee increase.

More to follow as we go along during the 2025 budget discussions in September and October.
Thank You! Any Questions?
HOWL-O-WEEN Pet Safety Tips
Salt Lake County Animal Services

Halloween can be a lot of fun for humans, but pets may not appreciate the costumes and candy. Protect
your pets from Halloween dangers with these tips!

    1. Keep candy out of reach: All forms of chocolate and the artificial sweetener can be poisonous to
       dogs & cats. Call your emergency vet if your pet has eaten anything poisonous.
    2. Keep pets confined and away from the door: Dogs may be likely to dart out the door or become
       anxious with trick-or-treaters in costumes and yelling for candy. Put them in a crate or a
       backroom and keep everyone safe.
    3. Close the blinds or drapes, disconnect doorbells: If your dog reacts every time someone walks
       by or rings the doorbell close the drapes and disconnect the doorbell.
    4. Keep outdoor pets inside before and after Halloween: Keep dogs and cats indoors to prevent
       them from being injured, stolen, or poisoned as part of a Halloween prank.
    5. Don’t approach dogs while in costume: Even if you know the dog, a strange costume or mask
       can frighten them. They may not recognize you in costume. If a dog escapes a house or yard
       and runs up to you, tell your child to stand like a tree, and wait for the owner to grab the dog.
    6. Test out pet costumes before: Make sure the costume isn’t causing them distress or giving
       them an allergic reaction. It shouldn’t restrict their movement, ability to breath, bark or meow.
    7. Leave them at home: It may be best with all the distractions to leave your pet at home while
       trick-or-treating. Take them for a walk earlier in the day before the ghosts and goblins come out
       for the night to spook them.

Find a lost pet? Call Dispatch 801-840-4000. Need to get your pet microchipped? Don’t forget all pets in
Salt Lake County can receive a free microchip at our location. Email animal@slco.org for more info or
visit AdoptUtahPets.org.
Public Works Engineering (PWE) Capital Selec on Process for all MSD communi es (town, ci es, and
                                     unincorporated county)


 •   The MSD admin team will create an online Smartsheet for all communi es to submit proposed
     capital projects similar to those done in 2023. (August 2024).
 •   The assigned engineer for the jurisdic on, with help from Long Range Planners (LRP), meets with
     each community, including the Unincorporated community council liaisons, to educate them about
     the capital selec on process, the criteria used for ranking capital projects, and how to use the
     Smartsheet to submit their proposed capital projects for review by PWE. This will give each
     community the opportunity to ask ques ons and give addi onal input (September 2024).
 •   The assigned engineer or planner will give permission to one person on the council (or a designee
     chosen by the council) to enter proposed projects into the Smartsheet (September 2024).
 •   LRP may also submit proposed capital projects; however, LRP should coordinate with PWE to
     prevent overlap, especially on projects that involve “Ac ve Transporta on Plans” (September 2024).
 •   The deadline to submit proposed capital projects for considera on for the next year budget will
     be October 31, 2024. Any project submi ed a er October 31, 2024, will be considered for the
     following year (October 2024).
 •   Capital projects submi ed through the Smartsheet may pertain to Public Works Engineering (PWE),
     Public Works Opera ons (PW Ops), or Parks and Recrea on. Capital projects that are determined to
     be maintenance projects will be forwarded to PW Ops and those that are park related will be
     forwarded to Parks & Recrea on (November 2024).
 •   PWE reviews grants that have been awarded to see which ones will be started in the coming year
     that may need matching funds. This report will be sent from PWE to MSD Finance (November
     2024).
 •   MSD Finance will incorporate the grant matching fund requests for the next year and provide PWE
     with a 5-yr capital budget forecast for all communi es (November 2024).
 •   A er grant matching funds are accounted for, PWE reviews submi ed projects, exis ng sidewalk
     and traﬃc calming priority lists, transporta on and drainage master plans, metro township and
     town general plans, any previous community/council requests, and creates a list of poten al
     projects for each community (November 2024).
 •   PWE provides high-level cost es mates for each project and shares the poten al project list with
     MSD Admin, LRP, Parks and Rec, and PW Ops to get their input and to see if there are any project
     synergies or community needs/hot-bu on issues that should be considered which will be
     incorporated into a project or added to the list if not already on the list and if warranted i.e. if they
     align with master plans and are appropriate for engineering projects (December 2024).
 •   The assigned engineer for the jurisdic on gets the list of poten al projects approved by the council.
     It is important that the assigned engineer no ﬁes each community that not all projects can be
     funded and it will be up to the MSD board to give ﬁnal approval (January 2025).
 •   PWE gathers all the poten al projects which have been approved by each council and presents its
     ﬁnal recommenda on of capital projects for the next year to MSD board for considera on of ﬁnal
     approval (January 2025).
 •   Since grant funding is usually a year or two out (some mes more), PWE will con nue to apply for
     them using the overall project rankings on unfunded projects. Occasionally, there is an opportunity
     for grant funding that could align with the next budget year so PWE will apply for those but since
       grants are not guaranteed, PWE may have to ask the MSD board for approval to reallocate the
       budget to fund the full project amount un l grants have been awarded. (ongoing).
   •   PWE provides quarterly updates to IT to update their dashboard and the MSD board to keep them
       informed (ongoing).
   •   This capital selec on process along with the ranking criteria will be reviewed annually, taking into
       considera on how it went during the previous year, star ng around mid-January of each year
       (annual).




PWE Capital Project Ranking Criteria
               Priori zed by engineering weigh factors such as:
                   1. Property damage reduc on
                   2. Masterplan system comple on
                   3. Reduc on of hazard or improved safety
                   4. Reduc on of cost of maintenance
                   5. Overall project cost
                   6. Money available from other sources
                   7. Community/Public/UPD/School interest and meets stated needs of Municipality’s
                        General Plan.
                           a. Ques ons to be considered:
                           i.   What is the an cipated level of conﬂict, controversy,
                                       opportunity, or concern on this or related issues?
                           ii.  How signiﬁcant are the poten al project impacts to the
                                       public?
                           iii. How much do the major stakeholders care about this
                                         issue or project?
                           iv.  What is the poten al for public impact on the poten al
                                         decision or project?
                   8. Recrea onal improvement
                   9. Water quality improvement
                   10. Opportuni es for collabora on with other municipali es
                   11. Ability to meet engineering standards.
                   12. Public Works Opera ons overlay schedule.
                   *Capital Projects with a history of traﬃc conges on, property damage, project ROW damage will be given higher value
                   than community requested improvement projects.
Title 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1.06 COUNTY CITY HOLIDAYS AND OFFICE HOURS
Chapter 1.08 PRISONERS
Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY
Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING

Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
1.01.010 Adoption
1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference
1.01.030 Reference To Specific Ordinances Ordinance Amendments--Change In Form Of County
Government
1.01.040 Effective Date Of This Code Reference To Specific Ordinances
1.01.050 Effective Date Of This Code


1.01.010 Adoption
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 18-12-01 (2018), the provisions of Utah Code § 17-53-20810-2a-414
(2018), on December 19, 2018, the county legislative body of Salt Lake County ordains as follows
and hasEmigration Canyon adopted the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 1986," as
compiled, edited and published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington.

Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-701 the Emigration Canyon City Council hereby adopts the
code as it existed on May 1, 2024.

1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference
This code shall be known as the "Salt Lake County CodeEmigration Canyon Code of Ordinances,
2001" and it shall be sufficient to refer to the code as the "Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon
Code of Ordinances, 2001" in any prosecution or action for the violation of any provision therein
or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to,
amending, correcting or repealing all or any portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to,
correction or repeal of the "Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon Code of Ordinances, 2001."
Whenever a reference is made to this code as the "Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon Code of
Ordinances, 2000" or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of Salt Lake County, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions made before, as of or after the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
1.01.030 Ordinance Amendments--Change In Form Of County Government

1.01.040 1.01.030 The amendments to these ordinances regarding the change in form of Salt
Lake County government from a county commission form to a as amayor-council form shall
be effective at noon, January 1, 2001. The adoption of these amendments and the change in
form of county government plan shall not affect any right, duty, penalty, action, or
proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or amended.Reference
To Specific Ordinances
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are
otherwise connected with the ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or
otherwise and which are included within this code but such references shall be construed to apply
to the corresponding provisions contained in this code.

1.01.050 1.01.040 Effective Dates Of This Code
This code shall be effective on the following dates:

   A. As Emigration Township Planning District under Salt Lake County on April 1,
      1987January 8, 1997; H.B. 363 (1997).
   B. As an incorporated Metro-Township after May 12, 2015; S.B. 199 (2015).
   C. As an incorporated City on May 1, 2024; H.B. 35 (2024).
   A.D.
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.04.010 Official Name
The official name of the municipality shall be “Emigration Canyon.”


1.04.020 Official Seal.
The municipal seal shall be used by the Recorder and other Emigration Canyon officials as
required by law. The seal shall be rendered in a form and style approved by the Council.

1.04.010 1.04.030 Definitions And Rules Of Construction
   A. In the construction of the revised ordinances set out in this code, and all ordinances
      amendatory thereof, the following definitions shall be observed, unless such construction
      would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county City Ccouncil, or repugnant
      to the context of the ordinance.

           1. "Absent" means for the purposes of the county city emergency plan, not physically
              present and not able to be communicated with via any means for twelve hours.
           2. “Animal services” means the animal services contracted with Salt Lake County
              through the MSD.
2.3."At-large" means and refers to those three members of the Salt Lake County
    Emigration Canyon City Ccouncil who are elected to the council in a countycity-
    wide election.

3.4."Board of health" means the Salt Lake County board of health.

5. "Business" means any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this
   code for which a license is required.

4.6. “Business enterprise” means a sole proprietorship, partnership, association, joint
    venture, corporation, limited liability company, or other entity used in the carrying
    on of business.
5.7."Central services" include those services and activities provided within the office
    of the mayor or other officesby the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
    or other properly designated entity to support all county city government activity
    including activities related to purchasing, contracting, real estate, claims,
    management information and data processing, facility management, fleet,
    accounting, auditing, legal, and general countycitywide administration.

6.8."City" or "town" means Emigration Canyon. an incorporated municipality as a
    political subdivision of the State of Utah.

7.9."County City Ccouncil" or "council" means the County City Council of Salt Lake
    CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.
8. "Council chair" or "chair" means that member of the Salt Lake County Emigration
   Canyon City Ccouncil who has been elected and is serving as the chairperson of
   the council.

9. "Council district" or "district" means one or more of the six Salt Lake County
   council districts.

10. "Council vice chair" or "vice chair" means that member of the Salt Lake County
    Emigration Canyon City Ccouncil districts.

11.10.     "County" means Salt Lake County and may also be construed to mean the
    portions of Salt Lake County, Utah, outside the limits of the incorporated cities or
    towns therein.

12. "County City assessor" or "assessor" means the elected assessor of Salt Lake
    CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

13.11.     "Attorney," or "county city attorney" or "district attorney" means the elected
    appointed attorney of Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.
14. "County City auditor" or "auditor" means the elected auditor of Salt Lake
    CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

15. "County clerkCity recorder" or "clerkrecorder" means the elected clerk recorder of
    Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

16.12.    "County City mayor" or "mayor" means the elected executive officer and
    mayor of Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

17.13.      "County City recorder" or "recorder" means the elected appointed recorder
    of Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

18.14.      "County City sheriffLaw Enforcement" or "sheriff" means the elected
    sheriffagency designated by the city to provide law enforcement services to of Salt
    Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

19. "County City surveyor" or "surveyor" means the elected surveyor of Salt Lake
    CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

20.15.     "County City treasurer" or "treasurer" means the elected appointed treasurer
    of Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah.

21.16.      "CountyCitywide" policy, procedure or regulation means those lawful
    policies required to be approved by the council and implemented by the mayor or
    officers of the county city that address matters of administration and management
    that impact all subdivisions of county city government including, but not limited to,
    matters related to contracting, purchasing, personnel administration, central
    services, budgeting, debt financing, relations between offices, and other matters
    authorized by law for county city legislative bodies.

22.17.      "Disaster" means a situation causing or threatening to cause widespread
    damage, social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack,
    internal disturbance, natural phenomenon, or technological hazard and includes
    earthquakes, storms, tornadoes, flood, landslide, avalanche, fire, drought or
    epidemic.

23.18.      "Fire department" means the agency designated by the city to provide
    firefighting and medical services to Emigration Canyon, Utah the Salt Lake County
    Emigration Canyon Fire Department.

24.19.     "Governing body" means the county city council for legislative matters and
    the mayor for executive matters.

25.20.     "Health department" means the Salt Lake County health department or
    designated local health department.
26.21.      "Highway" or "public highway" means any road, street, lane, court, place,
    viaduct, tunnel, culvert, bridge, alley or other public way situated within thisthe
    countycity, laid out or erected as such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or
    open to the public, or made such in any action for the partition of real property, or
    such other public property so designated by any ordinance or statute, and includes
    the entire area within the right-of-way.

27.22.      "Interim successors" means the replacement for an unavailable or absent
    elected official as a result of a disasterunavailability or unwillingness to serve.

28.23.      "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that facts exist that bring the act or
    omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge of
    the unlawfulness of such act or omission.

24. "Law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of
    the state of Utah, the ordinances of Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon and, when
    appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
29.25.     “License” includes any certificate or license that Emigration Canyon may
    issue.
30.26.    "License official" means the director of the Salt Lake County Emigration
    Canyon planning and development services division or his designee.

31.27.    "Local emergency" means the proclamation invoking special powers and
    the emergency operation plan as a result of a disaster or emergency, except the
    Mayor may not exercise powers to respond to a pandemic or an epidemic..

28. "Maliciously" or "malice" means a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or
    an intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by presumption of law.

29. “May” means an action that is authorized or permissive.

30. “May not” means an action that is not authorized and is prohibited.

31. “Offense” means again act, action, or conduct prohibited by this Code or the failure
    to perform any acts required by this Code.

32. “Order” means any Emigration Canyon order including a stop work order, notice
    of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement action, revocation or suspension of
    a license or permit, assessment of charges or costs, notice of zoning violation,
    seizure of any animal or property, Code enforcement order relating to the
    occupancy of any structure or building, any written disciplinary action, the
    assessment of any costs or non-criminal penalty, or any other action seeking the
    cessation of any business or operation.
       32.33.

       33.34.      "Owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner,
           joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or less of the whole or of any part of
           the building or land.

       34.35.     44.      “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock
           company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, bodies politic,
           business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, officer, or employee of
           any of them, or any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or group of
           individuals, however styled or designated, and any other entity that is recognized
           by law as the subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such
           person."Person" includes bodies politic and any individual, partnership, association,
           corporation or group of individuals, however styled or designated.
       35.36.      "Personal property" means and includes money, goods, chattels, things in
           action and evidences of debt.
       36. "Plan" or "optional plan" means the Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon optional
           plan of county government adopted for the county city at the election held on
           November 13, 1998 and taking effect on January 1, 2001.

       37. “Property” means and includes real and personal property.

       38. “Real property” means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
       39.38.     “State” means the state of Utah.

       40.39.      “Tenant” or “occupant,” applied to a building or land, mean and include any
           person who occupies the whole or any part of such building, either alone or with
           others.

       41.40.      “WilfullyWillfully,” when applied to the intent with which an act is done or
           omitted, means and implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or
           make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to
           injure another or to acquire any advantage.

       42.41.      “Written” means and includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed,
           multigraphed, photocopied, printed or otherwise processed by computer or other
           electronic means, or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.

       43.42.     “Year” means a calendar year unless specified otherwise.

B. Rules of Construction.

       1. Mere language changes are not intended to reflect changes in the substance or
          meaning of the ordinances.
           2. The singular number includes the plural.

           3. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and vice versa,
              unless manifestly inapplicable.

           4. Words used in the masculine gender comprehend the feminine and neuter.

           5. The term “may” is permissive; the terms “must” and “shall” are each mandatory.

1.04.020 1.04.040 Interpretation Of Language
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.

1.04.030 1.04.050 Computation Of Time
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, if Saturday, Sunday or a holiday,
in which case the last day shall be the next following business day. When the period of time is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded.

1.04.040 1.01.010 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of
Ordinances
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is
done within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein,
shall be guilty of the offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.

1.04.050 1.04.060 Severability
The county city council of Salt Lake CountyEmigration Canyon, Utah, hereby declares that the
council would have passed these revised ordinances and each section, subsection, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, void, or unlawful.

1.04.060 1.04.070 Separation Of Powers
The optional plan of Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon government, approved by county city
voters in 1998 and effective in 2001, contemplates a separation of all powers granted by law to a
county city commission between the county city legislative body (the county City Ccouncil) and
the county city executive (the county city mayor), following the model or design contemplated in
the governments of the United States and the State of Utah.
   A. The county city council shall exercise all legislative powers, have all legislative duties, and
      perform all legislative functions, as may be set out in state statute, the county city plan,
      county city ordinance, or in other sources of the law.

   B. Except as expressly provided otherwise in statute and except as contrary to the powers,
      duties, and functions of other county city officers, tThe county mayor shall exercise all
      executive powers, have all executive duties, and perform all executive functions, as may
      be set out in state statute, the county city plan, county city ordinances, or in other sources
      of the law.

   C. Where the law is silent on the distribution or locus of a particular power, the allocation of
      powers shall be determined by function, according to an executive-legislative distinction.
      Where helpful, state and federal separation-of-power models shall be used to determine
      whether a particular power is executive or legislative.

Chapter 1.06 COUNTY CITY HOLIDAYS AND OFFICE HOURS

1.06.010 Office Hours
   1. All offices, departments, and agencies of the county city shall keep their offices open for
      the transaction of public business between the hours of eight a.m. to five p.m., Monday
      through Friday. In addition to regular office hours, for those offices and agencies in which
      the normal transaction of public business requires other hours of operation, services shall
      be provided on such days and such hours as the public business necessitates.

   2. All full-time county city employees shall work forty hours per week. Work schedules in
      offices, departments, and agencies shall be established pursuant to county city personnel
      policies.

1.06.020 Holidays
   A. The following days are legal holidays during which County City offices are closed:

       The First day of January                            New Year's Day

       The Third Monday of January                         Martin Luther King Day

       The Third Monday and February                       Presidents' Day

       The Last Monday in May                              Memorial Day

       The Fourth Day of July                              Independence Day

       The Twenty-fourth Day of July                       Pioneer Day
        The First Monday of September                       Labor Day

        The Eleventh Day of November                        Veterans Day

        The Fourth Thursday of November                     Thanksgiving Day

        The Fourth Friday of November                       Day After Thanksgiving

        The Twenty Fifth Day of December                    Christmas Day

   B. In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday.
      In the event that the holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.

   C. Where the public business requires, some county city offices may be required to remain
      open for business on legal holidays.

1.06.030 Legal Delays
Any act which is authorized or required to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, when
the county city offices are closed, may be performed on the next business day. No liability or loss
of rights of any kind may result from that delay.

Chapter 1.08 PRISONERS
1.08.010 Prisoner Fees

1.08.020 Work By County Prisoners

1.08.030 Jail Maximum Operating Capacity

1.08.010 Prisoner Fees
The sheriff may charge such prisoner fees as are authorized by law and approved by the council.

1.08.020 Work By County Prisoners
Any prisoner confined in the Salt Lake County Jail under conviction of a misdemeanor, under
which conviction or existing law the prisoner is liable to labor, may be put to labor for the county's
benefit on public projects.

The sheriff shall direct the working of inmates under subsection A of this section and shall ensure
that some responsible person will supervise inmate labor.

Inmates of the jail who are not under conviction of a misdemeanor may volunteer for labor under
the same conditions as convicted misdemeanants.
1.08.030 Jail Maximum Operating Capacity
The sheriff is authorized by law to establish a maximum operating capacity of each jail facility in
the county upon approval by the council. Capacities shall be based upon available staffing and jail
facility design. Capacity decisions shall be set at least annually as part of the county budget process.
Once established the sheriff is authorized to deny incarceration of inmates on misdemeanor charges
and establish release policies for inmates consistent with state statute, court order or law.

Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY

1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
Any person found to have violated any provision or provisions of an ordinance included in these
revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
or a civil violation of TownshipCity code, and punished as provided by TownshipCity code or state
criminal code for Class B misdemeanors. The townshipCity has sole discretion in deciding whether
to file a civil or criminal case for the violation of any of its ordinances.

1.12.020 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is
done within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein,
shall be guilty of the offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.

1.12.030 No Liability on Municipality
None of the provisions of this Code shall create any civil liability on the municipality, its officers,
or employees whether or not the Code imposes mandatory or directional duties and whether or not
the municipality, its officers or employees perform or do not perform such duties.

1.12.040 Presumption of Liability for Certain Violations
The occupant and owner of any premises upon which a violation of any provision of this code or
of any Kearns ordinance and the owner of any object or material placed or remaining anywhere in
violation of any provision of this code or of any Kearns ordinance shall be presumed to be
responsible for the violation so evidenced and subject to the penalty provided therefor.

1.12.050 Penalties not to excuse abatement of prohibited conditions.
The application of any penalty under this chapter shall not constitute the condoning or legalizing
of any prohibited condition or prevent the abatement or enforced removal of such condition by any
lawful means available to Kearns including Title 12, Code Enforcement.

Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
1.16.010 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the "Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon Administrative
Procedures Ordinance.”

1.16.020 Purpose
The county city council finds that the enforcement of the Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon
ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes is an important public function vital
to the protection of the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life. The county city council
further finds that providing a hearing to county city employees, citizens, and county city agencies
relating to the enforcement of ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes
through an administrative procedures process conducted by independent, law-trained
administrative judges comports with basic due process, simplifies and expedites hearings
benefitting the county city and citizens, minimizes the impact on the judicial system, and provides
flexibility in both the hearing process and in determining remedies and responsibilities.

1.16.030 Scope
The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any violations of the Salt Lake County Emigration
Canyon ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes which occur within Salt
Lake County Emigration Canyon or relate to such activities subject to Salt Lake County
Emigration Canyon operations and jurisdiction. No judicial review shall be available to any citizen
or county city agency if the provisions of this chapter are not followed. Failure to timely request
and participate in an administrative review under this chapter shall bar any action in the state or
federal courts by an aggrieved citizen, county city employee, or county City agency.

1.16.040 Other Remedies And Criminal Prosecution
The county city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue criminal, civil, remedies
or seek administrative enforcement for the violation of any of its ordinances, policies, regulations,
and applicable state statutes. This chapter shall not limit the powers of the Salt Lake County
Emigration Canyon district city attorney in pursuing criminal charges for the violation of any
county city ordinances or state statutes, in addition to any civil action the county city may take.

1.16.050 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
In this chapter the following words and phrases are defined as follows:
   A. "County Enforcement Action" or "Action" means any action by the county city seeking
      compliance with any ordinance, policy, regulation, applicable state statutes, and includes a
      notice of violation, administrative citation, departmental determination, board
      findings/order, stop work order, notice of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement
      action, revocation/suspension of a license or permit, assessment of charges or costs, order
      relating to the occupancy or use of any structure, zoning violation, seizure of any animal
      or property, and any other action by a county city agency seeking the cessation of any
   business or operation or the assessment of any costs or non-criminal penalty. This term
   shall not include any criminal prosecution.

B. "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the mayor or his designee to
   preside over administrative hearings. An administrative law judge must be an attorney
   licensed to practice law in the State of Utah and must not be an employee of the countycity.

C. "Administrative Hearing" means a hearing held pursuant to the procedures established by
   this chapter.
D. "Cityounty" means the County city of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon, Utah.

E. "County City Council" means the County City Council of Salt Lake CountyEmigration
   Canyon.

F. "Director" means the mayor or his designee and includes the division administrator,
   assistant division administrator, or director of an agency.
G. "Enforcement Official" means any person authorized by the county city to enforce
   violations of the Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon Code of Ordinances, policies,
   regulations, or applicable state codes including, but not limited to, zoning officers, police
   officers, building inspection officials, animal control officers, and health department
   officials.

H. "Mayor" means the Mayor of Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon or the Mayor's
   designee.

I. "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
   association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
   agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as
   the subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.

J. "Property Owner" means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of the
   Salt Lake County Recorder or the County Recorder in the County where the real property
   is located.

K. "Responsible Person" or "Responsible Party" means the person(s) determined by the
   county city who is responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of the Salt Lake
   County Emigration Canyon Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state
   codes. The term "responsible person" shall include, but is not limited to, a property owner,
   agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, business owner, business manager or employee, architect,
   builder, contractor, or other person who individually or together with another person is
   responsible for the violation of any provision of the Salt Lake County Emigration Canyon
   Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes.
1.16.060 Service Of Notice Requirements
   A. Whenever a notice is required to be given under this chapter it shall be in the form of a
      notice approved by the director and the notice shall be served by one of the following
      methods:

           1. Personal service;
           2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;
           3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property that is the subject of
              the action.
           4. Publication in a newspaper of general circulation if service has not been
              accomplished after reasonable efforts to comply Subsections 1 through 3; or
           5. As directed by the administrative judge.

   B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any
      action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.

   C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the fourth
      day after the date of mailing.

   D. The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance
      with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder.

1.16.070 Direction To Adopt Rules
The mayor shall establish rules for administrative hearings; appoint the hearing officer from the
pool of approved administrative law judges, or, in the case of a conflict, appoint an outside hearing
officer; provide for the notification of the involved parties; and establish guidelines and operating
procedures for administrative hearings, including the type of pre-hearing discovery that may be
allowed.

1.16.080 Subpoenas
The administrative law judge is empowered to issue subpoenas for the production of documents
and things and to compel the appearance of witnesses in the pending action. It shall be unlawful
for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative hearing.
A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.

1.16.090 Request For Administrative Hearing
   A. A responsible person served with a "county city enforcement action" and any county city
      agency shall have the right to request an administrative hearing.

   B. A party who has been adversely affected by an action by a county city agency may also
      request an administrative hearing. Adverse effect may arise from:

           1. Any decision affecting the employment status, compensation, or treatment of an
              employee of the countycity;
          2. Denial, revocation, or termination of any license issued by the countycity;

          3. Any decision relating to the zoning or permitted use of real property located within
             the unincorporated limits of the countycity;

          4. Any decision relating to the award or failure to award a bid or proposalproposal,
             but which action must be brought within the time limitations and grounds set forth
             in the county city ordinances and policies governing procurement;

          5. Any notice of violation, animal seizure, assessment of costs, or other action taken
             by animal services; or

          6. Such other violation, assessment, or action as designated by countycity ordinance,
             policy, regulation, or state law.

   C. The request for an administrative hearing shall be made in writing and delivered to the Salt
      Lake County Emigration Canyon mayor's office.
   D. The written request for hearing must be received by the mayor within fifteen calendar days
      of the date the "county city enforcement action" is served upon the responsible party.
      Failure to request an administrative hearing within fifteen calendar days from the date of
      service shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and of the right to
      an appeal of the "county city enforcement action" to any state or federal court or agency.

   E. Within fifteen days of the issuance of a "county city enforcement action," the county city
      may request an administrative hearing for the purposed of compelling a responsible person
      to comply with the action.

   F. If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a "county city
      enforcement action” the corrective action detailed within the action shall be considered the
      final administrative order and the person shall be deemed to have waived any appeal of
      that order.

1.16.100 Notification Of Administrative Hearing
   A. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative
      hearing, the mayor shall appoint an administrative law judge who shall schedule a date,
      time, and place for the administrative hearing.

   B. Written notice of the date, time, and place of the administrative hearing shall be served on
      the responsible person as soon as practicable prior to its date.

   C. The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 1.16.060
      of this chapter.
1.16.110 Powers Of Administrative Law Judge
   A. An administrative law judge shall have authority to set the date, time, and place for holding
      an administrative hearing.

   B. An administrative law judge may issue a scheduling order to guide the conduct of the case,
      to set the limits of any pre-hearing discovery, to provide for the identification of witnesses
      and their expected testimony, to list and exchange proposed exhibits, to approve
      stipulations regarding facts, applicable law, foundation to exhibits, and to govern such other
      matters related to hearing of the matter as deemed appropriate.

   C. The administrative law judge holding a hearing shall arrange for the recording of any
      hearing.

1.16.120 Rules Of Discovery And Evidence For Administrative Hearings
   A. The administrative law judge shall determine the scope of any pre-hearing discovery.

   B. The formal rules of evidence and of civil procedure adopted by the courts shall not be
      applied in any administrative hearings; however, the administrative law judge shall
      determine the admissibility and weight to be accorded any evidence.

   C. The administrative law judge shall issue a written ruling within forty-five days after the
      conclusion of the hearing.

1.16.130 Appeal
   A. Any responsible person or county city agency adversely affected by a final administrative
      order issued pursuant to a hearing may file a petition for review in the Third Judicial
      District Court of the State of Utah in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.

   B. A petition for review shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the
      administrative order is final, unless a statute provides otherwise.

   C. The record of the administrative hearing including minutes, findings, orders and, if
      available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the
      reviewing court by the party filing the appeal and the costs of producing the record,
      including any transcripts, shall be borne by the party filing the appeal. If the proceeding
      was tape recorded, a transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct
      transcript for purposes of this subsection.

   D. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative order. Before filing a
      petition, a responsible person may request the administrative law judge to stay an
      administrative order. Upon receipt of a request to stay, the administrative law judge may
      order the administrative order to be stayed pending district court review if the
      administrative law judge finds such stay to be in the best interest of the countycity.
                                 EMIGRATION CANYON
                                ORDINANCE NO. 2024-09-01
ORDINANCE REPEALING AND REPLACING TITLE 1 IN ITS ENTIRETY TO MAKE
           TECHNICAL CHANGES AND UPDATE LANGUAGE

WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is authorized to enact ordinances and rules, and make all
regulations, not repugnant to law, necessary for carrying into effect or discharging all powers and
duties conferred by this chapter, and as are necessary and proper to provide for the safety and
preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in the
city; and
WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon City Council desires to update its code of ordinances to make
technical changes after its conversion to a city, make technical changes required by the conversion,
and update code language to accurately reflect terms, definitions, and procedures.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon City Council as follows:
SECTION 1. Title 1is repealed and replaced as shown in the attached Exhibit A.
SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall go into effect upon posting.

              PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ Day of ____________________, 2024.


                                                             EMIGRATION CANYON

                                                             By: _______________________
                                                                 Joe Smolka, Mayor


______________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder
Title 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY
Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING

Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
1.01.010 Adoption
1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference
1.01.030 Reference To Specific Ordinances
1.01.040 Effective Date Of This Code

1.01.010 Adoption
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 18-12-01 (2018), the provisions of Utah Code § 10-2a-414 (2018), on
December 19, 2018, the legislative body of Emigration Canyon adopted the "Salt Lake County
Code of Ordinances, 1986," as compiled, edited and published by Book Publishing Company,
Seattle, Washington.

Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-701 the Emigration Canyon City Council hereby adopts the
code as it existed on May 1, 2024.

1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference
This code shall be known as the "Emigration Canyon Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to
the code as the " Emigration Canyon Code" in any prosecution or action for the violation of any
provision therein or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any
ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any portion thereof as an addition to,
amendment to, correction or repeal of the "Emigration Canyon Code." Whenever a reference is
made to this code as the "Emigration Canyon Code" or to any portion thereof, the reference shall
apply to all amendments, corrections and additions made before, as of or after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter.

1.01.030 Reference To Specific Ordinances
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are
otherwise connected with the ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or
otherwise and which are included within this code but such references shall be construed to apply
to the corresponding provisions contained in this code.

1.01.040 Effective Dates Of This Code
This code shall be effective on the following dates:

   A. As Emigration Township Planning District under Salt Lake County on January 8, 1997;
      H.B. 363 (1997).
   B. As an incorporated Metro-Township after May 12, 2015; S.B. 199 (2015).
   C. As an incorporated City on May 1, 2024; H.B. 35 (2024).
   D.
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.04.010 Official Name
The official name of the municipality shall be “Emigration Canyon.”


1.04.020 Official Seal.
The municipal seal shall be used by the Recorder and other Emigration Canyon officials as
required by law. The seal shall be rendered in a form and style approved by the Council.

1.04.030 Definitions And Rules Of Construction
   A. In the construction of the revised ordinances set out in this code, and all ordinances
      amendatory thereof, the following definitions shall be observed, unless such construction
      would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council, or repugnant to the
      context of the ordinance.

          1. "Absent" means for the purposes of the city emergency plan, not physically present
             and not able to be communicated with via any means for twelve hours.

          2. “Animal services” means the animal services contracted with Salt Lake County
             through the MSD.

          3.

          4. "Board of health" means the Salt Lake County board of health.

          5. "Business" means any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this
             code for which a license is required.

          6.    “Business enterprise” means a sole proprietorship, partnership, association, joint
               venture, corporation, limited liability company, or other entity used in the carrying
               on of business.

          7. "Central services" include those services and activities provided by the Greater Salt
             Lake Municipal Services District or other properly designated entity to support all
             city government activity including activities related to purchasing, contracting, real
             estate, claims, management information and data processing, facility management,
             fleet, accounting, auditing, legal, and general citywide administration.

          8. "City" means Emigration Canyon.
          9. "City Council" or "council" means the City Council of Emigration Canyon, Utah.
10. "County" means Salt Lake County and may also be construed to mean the portions
    of Salt Lake County, Utah, outside the limits of the incorporated cities or towns
    therein.

11. "Attorney," or " city attorney" means the appointed attorney of Emigration Canyon,
    Utah.

12. "City mayor" or "mayor" means the elected executive officer and mayor of
    Emigration Canyon, Utah.
13. "City recorder" or "recorder" means the appointed recorder of Emigration Canyon,
    Utah.
14. "Law Enforcement" means the agency designated by the city to provide law
    enforcement services to Emigration Canyon, Utah.

15. "City treasurer" or "treasurer" means the appointed treasurer of Emigration Canyon,
    Utah.

16. "Citywide" policy, procedure or regulation means those lawful policies required to
    be approved by the council and implemented by the mayor or officers of the city
    that address matters of administration and management that impact all subdivisions
    of city government including, but not limited to, matters related to contracting,
    purchasing, personnel administration, central services, budgeting, debt financing,
    relations between offices, and other matters authorized by law for city legislative
    bodies.

17. "Disaster" means a situation causing or threatening to cause widespread damage,
    social disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack, internal
    disturbance, natural phenomenon, or technological hazard and includes earthquakes,
    storms, tornadoes, flood, landslide, avalanche, fire, drought or epidemic.

18. "Fire department" means the agency designated by the city to provide firefighting
    and medical services to Emigration Canyon, Utah .

19. "Governing body" means the city council for legislative matters and the mayor for
    executive matters.

20. "Health department" means the Salt Lake County health department or designated
    local health department.

21. "Highway" or "public highway" means any road, street, lane, court, place, viaduct,
    tunnel, culvert, bridge, alley or other public way situated within the city, laid out or
    erected as such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or open to the public, or
    made such in any action for the partition of real property, or such other public
      property so designated by any ordinance or statute, and includes the entire area
      within the right-of-way.

22. "Interim successors" means the replacement for an unavailable or absent elected
    official as a result of a unavailability or unwillingness to serve.

23. "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that facts exist that bring the act or
    omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge of
    the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
24. "Law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of
    the state of Utah, the ordinances of Emigration Canyon and, when appropriate, any
    and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.

25. “License” includes any certificate or license that Emigration Canyon may issue.

26. "License official" means the director of the Emigration Canyon planning and
    development services division or designee.

27. "Local emergency" means the proclamation invoking special powers and the
    emergency operation plan as a result of a disaster or emergency, except the Mayor
    may not exercise powers to respond to a pandemic or an epidemic..

28. "Maliciously" or "malice" means a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or
    an intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by presumption of law.

29. “May” means an action that is authorized or permissive.

30. “May not” means an action that is not authorized and is prohibited.

31. “Offense” means again act, action, or conduct prohibited by this Code or the failure
    to perform any acts required by this Code.

32. “Order” means any Emigration Canyon order including a stop work order, notice
    of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement action, revocation or suspension of
    a license or permit, assessment of charges or costs, notice of zoning violation,
    seizure of any animal or property, Code enforcement order relating to the
    occupancy of any structure or building, any written disciplinary action, the
    assessment of any costs or non-criminal penalty, or any other action seeking the
    cessation of any business or operation.

33.

34. "Owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint
    owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or less of the whole or of any part of the
    building or land.
          35. 44.    “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company,
              partnership, association, club, company, corporation, bodies politic, business trust,
              organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or
              any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or group of individuals,
              however styled or designated, and any other entity that is recognized by law as the
              subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.

          36. "Personal property" means and includes money, goods, chattels, things in action
              and evidences of debt.

          37. “Property” means and includes real and personal property.

          38. “Real property” means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments. “State”
              means the state of Utah.

          39. “Tenant” or “occupant,” applied to a building or land, mean and include any person
              who occupies the whole or any part of such building, either alone or with others.

          40. “Willfully,” when applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted, means
              and implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
              referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another or to
              acquire any advantage.

          41. “Written” means and includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed,
              photocopied, printed or otherwise processed by computer or other electronic means,
              or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.

          42. “Year” means a calendar year unless specified otherwise.
   B. Rules of Construction.

          1. Mere language changes are not intended to reflect changes in the substance or
             meaning of the ordinances.
          2. The singular number includes the plural.

          3. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and vice versa,
             unless manifestly inapplicable.

          4. Words used in the masculine gender comprehend the feminine and neuter.

          5. The term “may” is permissive; the terms “must” and “shall” are each mandatory.

1.04.040 Interpretation Of Language
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.

1.04.050 Computation Of Time
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, if Saturday, Sunday or a holiday,
in which case the last day shall be the next following business day. When the period of time is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded.

1.04.060 Severability

1.04.070 The city council of Emigration Canyon, Utah, hereby declares that the council
would have passed these revised ordinances and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, void, or unlawful.Separation Of Powers
   A. The city council shall exercise all legislative powers, have all legislative duties, and
      perform all legislative functions, as may be set out in state statute, city ordinance, or in
      other sources of the law.

   B. The mayor shall exercise all executive powers, have all executive duties, and perform all
      executive functions, as may be set out in state statute, city ordinances, or in other sources
      of the law.



Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY

1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
Any person found to have violated any provision or provisions of an ordinance included in these
revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
or a civil violation of City code, and punished as provided by City code or state criminal code for
Class B misdemeanors. The City has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal
case for the violation of any of its ordinances.

1.12.020 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is
done within the course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein,
shall be guilty of the offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.
1.12.030 No Liability on Municipality
None of the provisions of this Code shall create any civil liability on the municipality, its officers,
or employees whether or not the Code imposes mandatory or directional duties and whether or not
the municipality, its officers or employees perform or do not perform such duties.

1.12.040 Presumption of Liability for Certain Violations
The occupant and owner of any premises upon which a violation of any provision of this code or
of any Kearns ordinance and the owner of any object or material placed or remaining anywhere in
violation of any provision of this code or of any Kearns ordinance shall be presumed to be
responsible for the violation so evidenced and subject to the penalty provided therefor.

1.12.050 Penalties not to excuse abatement of prohibited conditions.
The application of any penalty under this chapter shall not constitute the condoning or legalizing
of any prohibited condition or prevent the abatement or enforced removal of such condition by any
lawful means available to Kearns including Title 12, Code Enforcement.

Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
1.16.010 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the " Emigration Canyon Administrative Procedures Ordinance.”

1.16.020 Purpose
The city council finds that the enforcement of the Emigration Canyon ordinances, policies,
regulations, and applicable state statutes is an important public function vital to the protection of
the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life. The city council further finds that providing
a hearing to city employees, citizens, and city agencies relating to the enforcement of ordinances,
policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes through an administrative procedures process
conducted by independent, law-trained administrative judges comports with basic due process,
simplifies and expedites hearings benefitting the city and citizens, minimizes the impact on the
judicial system, and provides flexibility in both the hearing process and in determining remedies
and responsibilities.

1.16.030 Scope
The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any violations of the Emigration Canyon
ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes which occur within Emigration
Canyon or relate to such activities subject to Emigration Canyon operations and jurisdiction. No
judicial review shall be available to any citizen or city agency if the provisions of this chapter are
not followed. Failure to timely request and participate in an administrative review under this
chapter shall bar any action in the state or federal courts by an aggrieved citizen, city employee,
or City agency.
1.16.040 Other Remedies And Criminal Prosecution
The city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue criminal, civil, or administrative
enforcement for the violation of any of its ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state
statutes. This chapter shall not limit the powers of the Emigration Canyon city attorney in pursuing
criminal charges for the violation of any city ordinances or state statutes, in addition to any civil
action the city may take.

1.16.050 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
In this chapter the following words and phrases are defined as follows:

   A. " Enforcement Action" or "Action" means any action by the city seeking compliance with
      any ordinance, policy, regulation, applicable state statutes, and includes a notice of
      violation, administrative citation, departmental determination, board findings/order, stop
      work order, notice of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement action,
      revocation/suspension of a license or permit, assessment of charges or costs, order relating
      to the occupancy or use of any structure, zoning violation, seizure of any animal or property,
      and any other action by a city agency seeking the cessation of any business or operation or
      the assessment of any costs or non-criminal penalty. This term shall not include any
      criminal prosecution.

   B. "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the mayor or his designee to
      preside over administrative hearings. An administrative law judge must be an attorney
      licensed to practice law in the State of Utah and must not be an employee of the city.

   C. "Administrative Hearing" means a hearing held pursuant to the procedures established by
      this chapter.

   D. "City" means the city of Emigration Canyon, Utah.

   E. " City Council" means the City Council of Emigration Canyon.

   F. "Director" means the mayor or his designee and includes the division administrator,
      assistant division administrator, or director of an agency.

   G. "Enforcement Official" means any person authorized by the city to enforce violations of
      the Emigration Canyon Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes
      including, but not limited to, zoning officers, police officers, building inspection officials,
      animal control officers, and health department officials.

   H. "Mayor" means the Mayor of Emigration Canyon or the Mayor's designee.
   I. "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
      association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
      agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as
      the subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.
   J. "Property Owner" means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of the
      Salt Lake County Recorder or the County Recorder in the County where the real property
      is located.

   K. "Responsible Person" or "Responsible Party" means the person(s) determined by the city
      who is responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of the Emigration Canyon Code
      of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes. The term "responsible
      person" shall include, but is not limited to, a property owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant,
      business owner, business manager or employee, architect, builder, contractor, or other
      person who individually or together with another person is responsible for the violation of
      any provision of the Emigration Canyon Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or
      applicable state codes.

1.16.060 Service Of Notice Requirements
   A. Whenever a notice is required to be given under this chapter it shall be in the form of a
      notice approved by the director and the notice shall be served by one of the following
      methods:

           1. Personal service;
           2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;
           3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property that is the subject of
              the action.
           4. Publication in a newspaper of general circulation if service has not been
              accomplished after reasonable efforts to comply Subsections 1 through 3; or
           5. As directed by the administrative judge.

   B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any
      action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.
   C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the fourth
      day after the date of mailing.
   D. The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance
      with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder.

1.16.070 Direction To Adopt Rules
The mayor shall establish rules for administrative hearings; appoint the hearing officer from the
pool of approved administrative law judges, or, in the case of a conflict, appoint an outside hearing
officer; provide for the notification of the involved parties; and establish guidelines and operating
procedures for administrative hearings, including the type of pre-hearing discovery that may be
allowed.
1.16.080 Subpoenas
The administrative law judge is empowered to issue subpoenas for the production of documents
and things and to compel the appearance of witnesses in the pending action. It shall be unlawful
for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative hearing.
A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.

1.16.090 Request For Administrative Hearing
   A. A responsible person served with a " city enforcement action" and any city agency shall
      have the right to request an administrative hearing.

   B. A party who has been adversely affected by an action by a city agency may also request an
      administrative hearing. Adverse effect may arise from:

           1. Any decision affecting the employment status, compensation, or treatment of an
              employee of the city;

           2. Denial, revocation, or termination of any license issued by the city;

           3. Any decision relating to the zoning or permitted use of real property located within
              the unincorporated limits of the city;

           4. Any decision relating to the award or failure to award a bid or proposal, but which
              action must be brought within the time limitations and grounds set forth in the city
              ordinances and policies governing procurement;

           5. Any notice of violation, animal seizure, assessment of costs, or other action taken
              by animal services; or

           6. Such other violation, assessment, or action as designated by city ordinance, policy,
              regulation, or state law.

   C. The request for an administrative hearing shall be made in writing and delivered to the
      Emigration Canyon mayor's office.

   D. The written request for hearing must be received by the mayor within fifteen calendar days
      of the date the " city enforcement action" is served upon the responsible party. Failure to
      request an administrative hearing within fifteen calendar days from the date of service shall
      constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and of the right to an appeal of
      the " city enforcement action" to any state or federal court or agency.

   E. Within fifteen days of the issuance of a " city enforcement action," the city may request an
      administrative hearing for the purposed of compelling a responsible person to comply with
      the action.

   F. If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a " city enforcement
      action” the corrective action detailed within the action shall be considered the final
      administrative order and the person shall be deemed to have waived any appeal of that
      order.

1.16.100 Notification Of Administrative Hearing
   A. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative
      hearing, the mayor shall appoint an administrative law judge who shall schedule a date,
      time, and place for the administrative hearing.

   B. Written notice of the date, time, and place of the administrative hearing shall be served on
      the responsible person as soon as practicable prior to its date.

   C. The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 1.16.060
      of this chapter.

1.16.110 Powers Of Administrative Law Judge
   A. An administrative law judge shall have authority to set the date, time, and place for holding
      an administrative hearing.

   B. An administrative law judge may issue a scheduling order to guide the conduct of the case,
      to set the limits of any pre-hearing discovery, to provide for the identification of witnesses
      and their expected testimony, to list and exchange proposed exhibits, to approve
      stipulations regarding facts, applicable law, foundation to exhibits, and to govern such other
      matters related to hearing of the matter as deemed appropriate.

   C. The administrative law judge holding a hearing shall arrange for the recording of any
      hearing.

1.16.120 Rules Of Discovery And Evidence For Administrative Hearings
   A. The administrative law judge shall determine the scope of any pre-hearing discovery.

   B. The formal rules of evidence and of civil procedure adopted by the courts shall not be
      applied in any administrative hearings; however, the administrative law judge shall
      determine the admissibility and weight to be accorded any evidence.

   C. The administrative law judge shall issue a written ruling within forty-five days after the
      conclusion of the hearing.

1.16.130 Appeal
   A. Any responsible person or city agency adversely affected by a final administrative order
      issued pursuant to a hearing may file a petition for review in the Third Judicial District
      Court of the State of Utah in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.

   B. A petition for review shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the
      administrative order is final, unless a statute provides otherwise.
C. The record of the administrative hearing including minutes, findings, orders and, if
   available, a true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the
   reviewing court by the party filing the appeal and the costs of producing the record,
   including any transcripts, shall be borne by the party filing the appeal. If the proceeding
   was tape recorded, a transcript of such tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct
   transcript for purposes of this subsection.

D. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative order. Before filing a
   petition, a responsible person may request the administrative law judge to stay an
   administrative order. Upon receipt of a request to stay, the administrative law judge may
   order the administrative order to be stayed pending district court review if the
   administrative law judge finds such stay to be in the best interest of the city.
                                EMIGRATION CANYON
                               ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-XX
        ORDINANCE REQUIRING COMPLETION ASSURANCE FOR GRADING
                         AND EXCAVATION PERMITS IN
           TITLE 19.02.110 “IMPROVEMENTS—PERFORMANCE BONDS

WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon has land use authority under Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-102 and
previously enacted land use regulations under Emigration Canyon Code Title 19, and;
WHEREAS, due to the challenging topography for building within Emigration Canyon, the
Emigration Canyon City Council desires to provide for completion assurance for grading and
excavating activities; and
WHEREAS, these completion assurances are to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the
property owners and occupants of Emigration Canyon and to protect both urban and nonurban
development.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon City Council as follows:
SECTION 1. Title 19.02.110 is amended to read as shown in the attached Exhibit A.
SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall go into effect upon posting.

              PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ Day of ____________________, 2024.


                                                         EMIGRATION CANYON

                                                         By: _______________________
                                                             Joe Smolka, Mayor


______________________________
Nicole Smedley, City Recorder
                                        EXHIBIT A

19.02.110 lmprovements--Performance Bonds


   A. Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission,
      including but not limited to curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets,
      fire hydrants, and parking, grading, and excavation shall be satisfactorily installed
      prior to the Metro TownshipCity authorizing electrical service being provided; or,
      if no electrical service is required, prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the
      land being developed.
   B. In lieu of actual completion of such improvementsrequirements in 19.02.110(A), or
      in the case of landscaping, in addition to, except where seasonal considerations
      reasonably preclude installation of live plant materials, and prior to electrical service
      being provided or occupancy permit, a developer may file with the council
      chairbuilding official or his designee a cash or surety bond or escrow agreement or
      letter of credit, in an amount specified by the council chairbuilding official or his
      designee, to ensure completion of improvements and grading/excavation within one
      year.
   C. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount for public infrastructure or public
      improvements, such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall
      extend for a one-year period beyond the date the improvements are completed, to
      guarantee replacement of such defective public improvements. Twenty-five percent
      of the bond amount for live plant materials shall extend for a two-year period beyond
      the date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants.
   D. A completion assurance bond shall not be required for the landscaping of
      residential lots or the equivalent open space surrounding single-family attached
      homes
   A.E.    Upon completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement
      has been filed, the developer shall call for inspections of the improvements by the
      development servicesbuilding official director or his authorized agent.
   F. A failure to complete the improvements or construction plan by the property owner
      within the time limits in this section may subject the developer or property owner
      to a refusal, suspension, or revocation of the certificate of occupancy, construction
      permit, and/or other civil or administrative actions.
    B.G.   If the council chairbuilding official or designee determines that the required
      improvements should be completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a
      one-year period in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the Metro
      Township or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other hazards, the council
      chairbuilding official or designee may require in approving the bond that the
      improvements be installed in a specified sequence and period which may be less
      than one year and shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.
C.H.     Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures
   set forth in Chapter 3.56 of this code.
D.I.     When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-
   purpose district or other political subdivision of the state, the council chairbuilding
   offical may waive the bond and accept a letter from the governing body
   guaranteeing installation of the improvements. Before approving any such waiver,
   the council chairbuilding offical shall receive a recommendation from the public
   works directoregineering department.
