                                      EMIGRATION CANYON
                                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA
                                         February 25, 2025

                                      Unified Fire Authority Station 119
                                      5025 E Emigration Canyon Road
                                         Salt Lake City, Utah 84108

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Emigration Canyon Council will hold a meeting
at 7:00 PM on the 25th day of February 2025 at the Emigration Canyon Fire Station, 5025 E
Emigration Canyon Road, Salt Lake City, Utah as follows:

** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.


7:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
 1. Call to Order and Determine Quorum
 2. Pledge of Allegiance
 3. Recognize Visiting Officials

4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
   Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
   is authorized by the Governing Body.

5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
   A. Unified Police Department (UPD) – Detective Dawn Larsen (5 minutes)
   B. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) – Chief Bryan Case (5 minutes)
   C. Salt Lake County Animal Services – Gary Bowen (5 minutes)

6. CONSENT AGENDA
   A. Approval of Council Meeting Minutes – Diana Baun, Recorder
           1. July 30, 2024 City Council Meeting
           2. January 28, 2025 City Council Meeting

7. PRESENTATION ITEM
   A. City Websites/Policies – Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager

8. COUNCIL BUSINESS: (Discussion/Motion)
   A. Road Widening Project Updates – Mayor Joe Smolka and Tolin Hessel, Engineer (5
      minutes)
   B. Consider Resolution No. R2025-01 Adopting the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
      District Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel (10 minutes)
   C. Utah Open Lands Conservation Easement – Council Member David Brems (5 minutes)
   D. Emigration Canyon Potential Traffic Increase with the Closing of Neighboring Canyons –
      Sarah Bennett, Trails Utah Executive Director and Tolin Hessell, Engineer (10 minutes)
                                               1
   E. MSD Capital Improvement Project Requests – Tolin Hessel, Engineer and Tamaran
      Woodland, Engineering Manager (10 minutes)
   F. 2025 Municipal Election Voting Options (Rank Choice Voting vs. Primary/General Election)
      – Diana Baun, City Recorder
   G. Salt Lake County Justice Courts – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel (10 minutes)

9. CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (Discussion/Motion)


10. COUNCIL REPORTS
    A. Council Member Brems (5 minutes)
            1. Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
                Area (SLVLESA)
            2. Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
            3. Community Renewable Energy Program
    B. Council Member Harris (5 minutes)
            1. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)
            2. Watershed Plan
    C. Council Member Pinon (5 minutes)
            1. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
            2. Utah Broadband
            3. Update on Possible High-Density Development
    D. Deputy Mayor Hawkes (5 minutes)
            1. Website (www.ecmetro.org)
            2. CodeRED
            3. Association of Municipal Governments
            4. Utah League of Cities and Townes
    E. Mayor Smolka (5 minutes)
            1. Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)
            2. Landfill Council
            3. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee
            4. Council of Governments (COG)
            5. Legislative Updates

11. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
    Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
    is authorized by the Governing Body.

12. FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS (5 minutes)

13. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
    205
    A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
        individual.
    B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
    C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
    D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
    E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205


                                               2
14. ADJOURN

  ZOOM MEETING:

  Topic: Emigration Canyon City Council Meeting
  Time: February 25, 2025, 7:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
  Join Zoom Meeting:
  https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87013454018?pwd=q91NDapMtS0iDb5mpiFbK1t7TM9r5A.1

  Meeting ID: 870 1345 4018
  Passcode: 777539

  Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
  District will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
  assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.




                                           3
                 EMIGRATION CANYON
                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                  JULY 30, 2024, 7:00 PM
                  UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                  5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                                   EMIGRATION CANYON
                              CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                             **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:
Joe Smolka, Mayor
Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
Robert Pinon, Council Member
David Brems, Council Member

Council Member(s) Absent:
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Staff Present:
Polly McLean, Legal Counsel
Nicole Smedley, Recorder

Others Present:
Dawn Larsen, Unified Police Department
Bryan Case, Unified Fire Authority
Gary Bowen, Salt Lake County Animal Services Representative

1.     Welcome and Determine Quorum

Mayor Smolka, presiding, called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm, and noted a quorum was
present. Council Member Harris was excused.

2.     Pledge of Allegiance led by Mayor Smolka

3.     Recognize Visiting Officials

No visiting officials present.

4.     Citizen Public Input

Deputy Mayor Hawkes read aloud a citizen comment submitted by email regarding the last
CodeRED that went out. They expressed concern about the construction and additional
closures in the canyon during those alerts.

                           EMIGRATION CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
                     MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
               COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                               COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2



5.     Reports from other Municipal Providers

       5.1    Unified Police Department

Detective Dawn Larsen presented the UPD report for June 2024. This included some suspicious
vehicles, a burglary into a private residence where charges were filed but the DA declined to
prosecute. There was a search and rescue for a group looking for the “treasure,” where they
ended up at lookout peak. There were a handful of suspicious circumstances reported, with a
total of 50 calls for service with 19 reports written. She asked the council about the new bathroom
built, noting the east side door doesn’t shut or lock, and in fact doesn’t fit in the frame. The
council discussed that issue and will look into it. She asked if road construction would be
completed before a bicycle race scheduled for August 25, 2024. If the construction will not be
completed by that date, the race will need to hire two additional officers to sit at the construction
zone.

Mayor Smolka responded that the lower construction site should be completed, and the upper
site will be close to completion.

Council Member Hawkes added that the application is for a bicycle race coming down the
canyon. They are stating there will not be any lane closures.

Detective Larsen responded they really need to close those lanes for the race, it is a safety issue
doing time trials and cyclists not wanting to slow down for cars.

Council Member Hawkes responded that, according to Michelle, they have no plans to close any
lanes for this race, using the westbound lane for the route. She would like to discuss approval
of this race. They discussed the trial starts being staggered, noting the eastbound lane is closed
for construction.

Detective Larsen feels it would be unsafe to have uphill traffic through that area during the race.

Council Member Hawkes noted that they have always closed the uphill lane for races in the
canyon, and residents are accustomed to the eastbound lane being closed for race events. She
expressed concern for resident reaction if something different were done, with the construction
zone being the main area of concern.

Mayor Smolka agreed, he does not like the idea of closing the westbound lane.

Detective Larsen would prefer to stay with their normal procedures and will have an officer
stationed at the construction zone, and she will try to get more information about the race
tomorrow for the council as this is their first race.

Council Member Hawkes also noted that the organization is asking for their permit fees to be
waived, they are a veteran based organization.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3


Detective Larsen also brought up the two deer on the upper road and mentioned an app called
Utah Roadkill that can be used to report dead animals on the roads for pickup.

After some online research the council was able to find information online that the date was
different and was open to more than just veterans and possibly more people that originally
quoted. They will do more research and contact the organizers to figure things out before
reviewing the permit officially for approval/denial.

       5.2    Unified Fire Authority

Division Chief Bryan Case reported call volume for Station 119, and said Station 119 response
times were around 12 minutes. Chief Case reported a finalized UFA budget was available for
review on the website which also provided an update on recruitment efforts. He reported Salt
Lake County Emergency Management was working to create evacuation zones in the canyon
with maps, signs, and sirens. He said Station 119 crews are working to be an example by cutting
down some trees close to the station, and they will be participating in emergency management
home assessments and leaving tags on front doors to get information to the public.

Council Member Hawkes discussed the abilities of the CodeRed system for those who might be
stuck or stranded in an emergency.

Chief Case also noted that installing sirens throughout the canyon would only be useful if they
are tested and residents know and understand what they mean. He also discussed some of the
other items on the emergency maps he was discussing like potential helicopter landing areas.
He talked about new pieces of equipment and asked the council to remind residents to be
hypervigilant about wildfires this time of year.

       5.3    Salt Lake County Animal Services

Gary Bowen with the Animal Services Advisory Committee spoke of an upcoming adoption event
and reported the annual fundraising event would not be held in 2024. He also shared that a
mobile pet services unit was being designed.

6.     Council Business

       6.1    Reappointment of Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

Polly McLean presented the following names for reappointment to the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission: Dale Berreth will have a one-year term, expiring March 1, 2025; Jim
Karkut and Jody Geroux will have the two-year terms; Tim Harpst and Andrew Wallace will have
the three-year terms. All of the appointees are eligible for reappointment at the end of their term
if the council desires. Council Member Pinon suggested aligning the terms with the half-year
point, rather than having the term expire in March, since Planning Commission Chairs are
elected at the first meeting each year. Ms. McLean said term effective dates could be
reconsidered and they will work to offset those dates.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


Council Member Brems moved to approve Resolution 2024-07-01, appointing members
of the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission as presented to ensure staggered
expiration of terms. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote was 4-0,
unanimous in favor. Council Member Harris was absent from the vote.

      6.2    Consideration of a Resolution Restricting Open Fires and Ignition Sources

Ms. McLean said this agenda item was an ordinance prohibiting fire ignition sources, not a
resolution as published. She advised the Council to discuss and vote on the ordinance that
evening since the substance remained the same. The Council reviewed proposed Ordinance
No. 2024-07-01.

Council Member Pinon moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2024-07-01 for prohibiting fire
ignition sources as presented. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote was
4-0, unanimous in favor. Council Member Harris was absent from the vote.

      6.3    Emigration Canyon Committee Appointments

Mayor Smolka asked if any other council members had appointees to suggest. There were no
other names given so he proposed Isaac Dahl, who worked on Firewise last year and
expressed willingness to do it again along with helping on the application to keep the city a
Firewise Community.

Mayor Smolka moved to appoint Isaac Dahl to the Emigration Canyon Health and Safety
Committee to work with the Firewise community program. Council Member Hawkes
seconded the motion.

Motion was withdrawn by Mayor Smolka to include additional appointees.

Mayor Smolka proposed Barb Babson to work on the canyon evacuation plan as a part of the
same committee. He shared she lives in Pinecrest, has a great deal of interest already and has
been working with Brad to get to this point. She has organized the upper Pinecrest area into
blocks as well.

Mayor Smolka moved to appoint Isaac Dahl to the Emigration Canyon Health and Safety
Committee to work with the Firewise community program, and to appoint Barb Babson
to the Emigration Canyon Health and Safety Committee to work on the Emigration Canyon
Evacuation Plan. Council Member Pinon seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous
in favor. Council Member Harris was absent from the vote.

      6.4    Legal Issues

Polly McLean said staff has been working to update City Code to reflect the new status as a city
instead of a township, in addition to some other clean-up related to county inherited wording.
Cameron will not be looking at Title 19 or 18 at this time, since they are already being discussed
by the planning commission for updates at this time.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  5



Mayor Smolka met with some legislators on Saturday, discussing funding for re-writing the code,
funding for UPD as a stop gap for a year or two during stabilization, and funding for Camp K.

       6.5    Ongoing Projects

Mayor Smolka reported the Lower Finn wall was almost complete. He and other members of the
community have been working on choosing a color for the Red Hill art sculpture, they are hoping
to match the hill somewhat with their final choice. All paving is complete on public sideroads in
the main canyon. The other project he is looking into is at approximately 1100 Pinecrest, where
the road is sloughing into the creek. He met with the state stream moderation staff, as well as
the Army Corp of Engineers, and they have permission to move ahead. A contractor visited the
site yesterday, coming back with a quote of $64,000 to work on the area where the road is
undercut. He is working with the private property owner on getting permission for some of the
work, which may entail filling in some of the failed open culvert area.

Council Member Hawkes asked about aftermath of flooding in multiple areas and what the future
plans were for those.

Mayor Smolka said the city did received some State grant funding for specifically the Cedar Loft
and Skycrest culvert repairs. They are also working on the area of Pinecrest where the road
washed out previously, but took out a bunch of trees in the process.

       6.6    Budget Items

Mayor Smolka said a quarterly financial report would be ready for Council review at the next
Council meeting. He also noted a refund check received on Worker’s Comp for around $63, and
an insurance bill for around $10,000.

       6.7    Records Management

Nicole Smedley reported options for long-term records management, after discussion with the
State Archives, and recommended using Google Docs. She said she believed Google Docs
would be searchable for archival use, but she is also willing to look into other options at higher
costs.

Ms. McLean suggested the Council invite Michael Duncan with the MSD to provide instruction
on options.

       6.8    Consideration of June 25, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes.

Council Member Brems moved to approve the June 25, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes.
Council Member Pinon seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor. Council
Member Harris was absent from the vote.

7.     Council Member Reports



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  6


      7.1    Council Member Brems

            (a) Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement
      Service Area (SLVLESA)

Council Member Brems reported on recent UPD and SLVLESA meetings. UPD had their first
meeting at Millcreek City Hall, and the SLVLESA meeting was in the same place. They will
continue meeting there until the UPD finds a permanent home. Chief Mazuran has announced
the UPD will be putting together a new strategic plan over the next few months. They will be
holding some events to try and recruit employees to fill their large amount of current openings.
SLVLESA had a presentation by Sheriff Rivera, discussing the tragic drowning death in the local
canyon and suicide attempt. The Sheriff’s department is also short personnel and working to fill
those vacancies.

             (b) Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

Council Member Brems reported the Planning Commission was working on new ordinances,
including terms of service.

             (c) Community Renewable Energy Program

No report.

      7.2    Council Member Harris

Absent.

      7.3    Council Member Pinon

             (a) Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

Council Member Pinon did not attend the meeting, but after reviewing the agenda he was able
to report they continued discussions regarding an increase in fees for 2025 at $6.00 a month.
The increase is needed because of increased cost of labor and equipment. Regarding the
dumpsters at Sunnydale, there have been locks installed on dumpsters and codes provided to
residents in particular neighborhoods. The dumpsters are only for the use of residents in those
neighborhoods because they do not have individual garbage cans. He also shared that he has
vouchers for residents who need to take garbage to the dump if needed.

Public Comment – “Tim” – stated that the Standell HOA very much appreciated the locks and
efforts to preclude illegal dumping. He thanked the council and WFWRD for their work on this
issue with limited access to their homes. The illegal dumping was getting out of hand, and at
one point he saw a truck engine sitting inside of the area. He went down there today and it was
pristine, clean.

             (b) Utah Broadband


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  7


No report.

             (c) Update on Possible High-Density Development

Council Member Pinon reported at least 300 comments opposing a high-density rezone were
heard at the June 26, 2024 Planning Commission meeting.

He reported the results from the Wellbeing Utah survey were publicly available online on the
USU website. To date, 147 responses from Emigration Canyon have been submitted.

      7.4    Deputy Mayor Hawkes

             (a) Website (www.ecmetro.org)

No report.

             (b) CodeRED

No report.

             (c) Association of Municipal Governments

No report.

             (d) Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

Council Member Hawkes reported the ULCT website would be changing and they have a
conference coming up.

      7.5    Mayor Smolka

             (a) Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Mayor Smolka provided an update on the new building for the MSD.

             (b) Landfill Council

Mayor Smolka reported a budget would be approved at the next Landfill Council meeting for
presentation to the County and cities. Money is being set aside for landfill closure when capacity
is reached.

             (c) Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee

Mayor Smolka reported a 2025-2030 Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) Plan was available
for review on the WFRC website. He said the TIF Plan included funding for the upper part of the
canyon.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                   8


              (d) Council of Governments (COG)

Mayor Smolka reported on recent COG meetings and spoke of adjustments to homeless
services.

               (e) Legislative Update

No report.

8.      Citizen Public Input

No public comments.

9.      Other Announcements

Council Member Hawkes said she was looking at options to prevent rodents from chewing up
toilet paper in public restrooms.

10.     Future Emigration Canyon Council Agenda Items

None.

11.     Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

No closed session was needed.

12.     Adjournment

Council Member Hawkes moved to adjourn the July 30, 2024 Emigration Canyon City
Council Meeting. Mayor Smolka seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor.
Council Member Harris was absent from the vote.

The July 30, 2024 City Council Meeting adjourned at 8:56 pm.

The July 30, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes were approved by the City Council on
February 25, 2025
Attest:


                                                           Joe Smolka, Mayor




Diana Baun, Recorder



      Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                EMIGRATION CANYON
                CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                January 25, 2025, 7:00 PM
                UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                                EMIGRATION CANYON
                           CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                          **UNAPPROVED – DRAFT MINUTES**

Council Members Present:
Joe Smolka, Mayor (via Zoom)
Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
Robert Pinon, Council Member
David Brems, Council Member
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Staff Present:
Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Tolin Hessell, Engineering
Stewart Okobia, Finance Director
Dawn Larsen, Unified Police Department
Bryan Case, Unified Fire Authority
Brian Buckhout, UFA Emergency Management Planner

Others Present:
Gary Bowen, Salt Lake County Animal Services Representative
Lyska Emerson
Sarah Bennet
Janet Haskill

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

Deputy Mayor Jennifer Hawkes, presiding, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and
determined a quorum was present.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

3. Recognize Visiting Officials

4. Public Comments


                           EMIGRATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
                   MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
             COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                             COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2



“Janet” online was asked by Deputy Mayor Hawkes if she would like to say anything, but did
raise her hand or ask to be unmuted, so the meeting was continued.

5. Stakeholder Reports

   A. Unified Police Department

Detective Dawn Larsen shared her report (Attachment A) with 36 calls for service, 10 of those
had reports written; most were traffic related, three were talking with residents regarding
plowing and putting snow in the roadway. There were a few traffic accidents, fraud cases, and
Officer Wilson caught someone going 100 mph on the straightaway.

   B. Unified Fire Authority

Chief Bryan Case reviewed his report (Attachment B) noting call volumes were low. Several
public assists or false alarms, one being burnt food on a stovetop with no fire upon arrival. In
addition, a passerby reported a campfire somewhere along Emigration Canyon Road and was
adamant about remaining anonymous; Medic Engine 119 drove the length of the canyon and
found nothing. A recruit camp just graduated on Jan. 16, with 15 firefighters. Camp 59 starts
February 3 with 36 more recruits. He encouraged the public and council members to check out
and sign up a CPR class on the Unified Fire website at https://unifiedfire.org/classes/cpr-class/
which are offered through the American Heart Association. Youth are invited to sign up for the
classes as well. He announced Chief Larsen retired after many years throughout the county.
He reminded everyone to check their smoke alarms, install carbon monoxide alarms, and have
emergency exit drills even during the winter. With less snow this year they aren’t having the
same issues as last year with vents being blocked, but he reminded everyone to keep their
house number visible from the streets for all first responders. Portable heaters should be kept
at least three feet away from anything that can catch fire, same with water heaters. UFA sent
eight firefighters to help with the LA County fires. They worked 24-hour shifts for two full
weeks. This experience is invaluable since they don’t see those types of situations much here,
and these opportunities give our firefighters great institutional knowledge to bring back with
new skills. He discussed the quarterly report in Attachment B, noting 26% of overall calls were
emergent, with only one fire call. Nothing very serious with EMS calls, a few falls and a lot of
public assists and false alarms with one vehicle versus pedestrian and a rollover call. Vast
majority of responses came from the station here at 119, with one response for the first unit
coming in from Station 106, East Millcreek. Ambulance responses were mostly coming out of
Stations 106 and 101 in Millcreek, with one ambulance response coming out of Holladay
Station 104. He discussed some of the issues being raised with the legislative session, with
several UFA personnel keeping track. Specifically, he wanted to bring the council’s attention to
HB 48 and HB 307, which are related to the wildland urban interface areas, and he briefly
reviewed those proposed bills and how they affect UFA. UFA as of now will be recommending
some language changes to HB 307.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3


Council Member Harris noted that it is difficult to evaluate these bills and offer advice when
they are constantly changing. They need to be followed closely but that will take work as it
changes with every committee.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes suggested reaching out to the League for support, especially since their
position is currently pending.
Council Member Harris noted that the bill could have effects on Emigration Canyon residents
in terms of higher insurance bills, and there is additional language offering incentives to those
homeowners that follow defensible space and home hardening recommendations but that has
no teeth to it.

Chief Case noted that the last edition he read required municipalities to pass and enforce the
wildlife urban interface regulations, and that could be the teeth for some of the compliance.
There is also a separate fee for homeowners adjoining the highest risk as identified by a
specific agency.

Council Member Brems discussed the water systems in California and their capacity for putting
out multiple home fires. He wonders if the power system being shut down had something to do
with the pressure of water coming from the different sources. Part of the emergency plan
should include speaking with EID and Rocky Mountain Power.

   C. Salt Lake County Animal Services

Gary Bowen had no advisory board meetings in the last 30 days to report on.

6. Consent Agenda

   A. Approval of July 30, 2024 Council Minutes – Diana Baun, Recorder

Deputy Mayor Hawkes did not feel the meeting minutes were detailed enough and asked for
more details to be added, the minutes were just too vague. Diana agreed to redo the minutes
and will create another version with more details.

7. Council Business

   A. Audited FY2024 Financial Statement Presentation – Stewart Okobia, Director of
      Finance

       1. Quarterly Report/Review of Budget Items

Stewart Okobia reviewed the financial reports included in the meeting packet.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes brought up expenses for CodeRED, didn’t see a portion of that billed to
the EID. Mr. Okobia agreed to look into that and figure out what happened to that
billing/reimbursement.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


Council Member Harris asked Mr. Okobia for his opinion on how the city is doing financially.

Mr. Okobia responded overall the MSD and cities are doing well, bringing in more than they
are spending and keeping a healthy fund balance.

Mayor Smolka noted that the financials for 2023 showed the city at almost $700,000
subsidized, which means money was coming from other members of the MSD and referred the
council to a financial analysis he sent out prior to the meeting (Attachment C).

Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked if that was due to a large construction project at that time.

Mayor Smolka said all the money for the Slope Stabilization project came from bond and grant
money, this is for regular stuff like snowplows.

Council Member Harris noted that Attachment C does show the 2023 numbers having the
bond money listed, but it was miniscule compared to many other municipalities. She then
asked about the large amount in the Public Works Operations section.

Mayor Smolka responded that it is for roads, signs, snowplows, drainage work, etc. Some of it
would be project clean-up that was missed as well.

Tolin Hassell confirmed that Public Works Operations did do a lot of the flood repair work.

Council Member Brems asked to confirm that they were in the red after 2023, but this last
audited fiscal year shows they are in the black.

Mr. Okobia clarified that the 2023 paper everyone was looking at (Attachment C) was an
attempt by Marla Howard to allocate costs to individual cities and towns as an analysis; that is
not a financial statement.

Council Member Harris pointed out that when Magna had the earthquake, they required a
large amount of funds as well, but she believes they were able to recoup some of that through
FEMA and other sources of funding. She asked if Emigration Canyon received any similar
assistance with the flood expenses.

Mr. Hassell explained the MSD did apply for assistance through the State Department of
Emergency Management, but he doesn’t believe anything has been received yet in terms of
responses.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked why the MSD Administration was the same across the board, not
proportional.

Mr. Okobia reiterated that Attachment C is only an analysis to help the MSD see where money
is going, it is not a financial statement. This is not a mechanism to charge amounts to one city
over another, it is just used to allocate costs to each municipality.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  5


The council asked to table the discussion of FY 2023 until a later date, after the RFP
potentially, and to move on with the presentation.

Mr. Okobia continued with his presentation from the financial reports in the meeting packet
covering July 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.

Council Member Brems asked about city owned property and where that is shown on these
statements.

Mr. Okobia responded it would not show up as an asset but would have shown as a purchase
when that was done. If it was purchased last year, it has already flowed through and as a
government entity those types of things are shown differently.

Council Member Brems believes it should be on the balance sheet every year to recognize as
an asset.

Mr. Okobia responded it will be on Emigration Canyon’s individual financial records.

Mayor Smolka added that they don’t pay property taxes on the city owned property, just things
like utilities and services.

   B. Emergency Operations Plan and Order of Succession for City Officials - Brian
      Buckhout, Emergency Municipal Planner

Brian Buckhout reviewed his prepared presentation regarding a proposed emergency
operation plan as included in the meeting packet.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked about the timeline for this plan, will there be training, etc.

Mr. Buckhout said there will be training exercises and each city will have its own emergency
management representative to advocate and provide situational awareness during an event.
The written plans are available for the training components, and each city will be empowered
to disseminate information and deal with resource requests. Once the MSD completes their
move to the new office, the plan is to begin those tabletop exercises and start training for those
involved.

Council Member Harris is surprised this is the first she is learning about this, and she was
unclear of what is being asked tonight. She is familiar with the EOP, the chain of command
and coordination between departments. She asked if this program would supplement or
replace the current programs. She is curious about the funding and staffing but does like
what’s being described.

Mr. Buckhout responded they have one full-time position with the MSD, which he fills, and one
part-time position which is filled by Madison Warner. They are covering six MSD communities
plus Midvale, but they are trying to make uniform plans that are similar and don’t require large
amounts of time and efforts changing the base plan, which is the purpose of the annexes. In
terms of funding, he didn’t have that information but noted they are working with consultants


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  6


that are building out those plans and are looking to have consultants do the annexes which
would also speed up the process. Many other emergency planners consider themselves lucky
to do one annex a year, along with their liaison work, building of evac zones, providing the
GIS, training, etc.

Chief Bryan Case asked what the response would look like from a practical point of view with
the separate agencies involved.

Mr. Buckhout believes the conduit of going from the city of Emigration Canyon, with the lack of
resources, to the county would happen rather quick and right up the chain. MSD would be a
filter for information and resource requests, but chances are when the MSD stands up during
an emergency the county would be standing right up with them.

Chief Case asked about the involvement of the MSD in this community for this plan.

Mr. Buckhout described some of the programs available like slope projects, UFA’s fire debris
removal program, and the emergency mitigation grants that the MSD is looking into. He does
see a gap here in carriage shelters in evacuation protocols, who sets up the evacuation points,
etc. They want to incorporate those specifics into the annexes to make sure everyone knows
specifically who is responsible for what.

Council Member Harris asked if this was adopted, would it supersede the current emergency
operations plan.

Mr. Buckhout responded it would absorb those plans, and work alongside them as a
foundation to work on more jurisdiction specific issues.

Chief Case noted this plan has more specific planning and prevention through the MSD to their
communities. This new plan would not supplant the county’s plan, because if things fell apart in
the municipal sense the county would step in regardless. He also asked for the frequency of
review for the plan

Mr. Buckhout responded this would be updated every four years per protocol, and if there were
major changes they could always discuss changes and re-approval.

Council Member Harris is thrilled with the idea of more planning, but skeptical of one full-time
and one part-time person throughout the MSD contributing to these plans. She doesn’t want
this adopted unless they still have autonomy to work with other agencies.

Mr. Buckhout responded that none of those programs weigh into the CEMP. There would also
be no additional costs at this time since they are not adding additional functions and manage it
the same way the EOP is managed. The annexing is done through the county and allows all
cities to adopt those, at no additional charge.

   C. Consider Resolution No. R2025-01 Adopting the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
      District Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  7


Mayor Smolka moved to accept and adopt Resolution R2025-01, Adopting the Greater
Salt Lake Municipal Services District Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
(CEMP). Council Member Pinon seconded the motion.

Attorney Cameron Platt gave the plan a positive recommendation, finding nothing negative as
this just adds to what is already in place and enhances it. It also has the framework for
someone with no training to set things up with the physical written plan if needed.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes noted that Chief Case has not looked at this yet, and since they already
have something in place she would like to spend the time reviewing it before making any final
decisions.

Council Member Harris agreed with Deputy Mayor Hawkes, doesn’t see the urgency in passing
this tonight.

Council Member Brems was in agreement, asking to table this for 30 days to review.

Roll Call Vote

Mayor Smolka – Yes
Deputy Mayor Hawkes – No
Council Member Harris – No
Council Member Brems – No
Council Member Pinon – Yes

Motion fails 3-2 with the “no” votes in the majority

The council directed staff to add this to the February agenda for further discussion.

   D. Consider Resolution No. R2025-02, Approving and Authorizing the Execution of the
      Fourth Amendment to the Master Interlocal Agreement among the MSD, Salt Lake
      County, Town of Copperton, Emigration Canyon, City of Kearns, Magna City and White
      City for Municipal, Administrative, and Operational Services – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel

Cameron Platt reviewed background information from the meeting packet.

Mayor Smolka moved to approve Resolution R2025-02, Approving and Authorizing the
Execution of the Fourth Amendment to the Master Interlocal Agreement. Council
Member Harris seconded the motion; vote was 5-0; unanimous in favor.

   E. Consider Ordinance No. 2025-O-01 Appointing the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
      Services District as Municipal Engineer for Emigration Canyon – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel

Cameron Platt reviewed background information from the meeting packet.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  8


Council Member Harris moved to approve Ordinance No. 2025-O-01, Appointing the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District as Municipal Engineer for Emigration
Canyon. Council Member Pinon seconded the motion.

Roll Call Vote

Mayor Smolka – Yes
Deputy Mayor Hawkes – Yes
Council Member Harris – Yes
Council Member Brems – Yes
Council Member Pinon – Yes

Motion passes 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   F. Utah Open Lands Conservation Easement – Council Member David Brems

Council Member Brems had nothing to report, asked to have this added to the agenda for
February.

   G. Discuss Request for Proposal (RFP) on City Owned Property at 6281 E. Emigration
      Canyon Rd. – Council Member David Brems

Council Member Brems has reviewed the RFP and believes it is a long way from what the
council is asking for. He thinks a meeting with Daniel is in order to walk him through the
council’s expectations. He believes the council is looking for a community engagement
process and visioning plan, he doesn’t believe they are asking for a concept at this point. The
RFP implies that whoever is chosen will be designing something, and that isn’t necessarily the
case since they don’t have the funds for that. He is imagining this as a $50,000 study, which
will include everyone in the canyon being asked their opinion, including stakeholder
engagement to hopefully lead them to great ideas on the community center in the future.

Mayor Smolka added that Daniel was aware this is just a starting point, and he is anticipating
changes to this.

Council Member Brems believes this could be done with a much simpler RFP.

Mayor Smolka noted that a reason he circulated the documents being discussed is because
the city is being supplemented by others. Many of the MSD member cities are not financially
ready for securing their own office space, and that is why he circulated the presentation.
Multiple members of the council noted they did not receive the presentation and Mayor Smolka
indicated he would try to send it again in the next few days.

Council Member Brems suggested setting aside money for demolishing the current buildings,
as they will be a hazard and liability while vacant.

Mayor Smolka agreed with Council Member Brems’ comments but noted that it might not be
the best move as they may need to do the work as a remodel, which would require keeping a
wall potentially to allow for that versus a new build.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  9


Council Member Hawkes agreed with looking into the options, noting it is not too close to a
stream.

Mayor Smolka believes it is too close to Brigham Stream, which cuts through the property.

Gary Bowen noted that when he built his home, before tearing down his grandparent’s summer
home he qualified the building as a remodel. He could never have gotten things built if it wasn’t
for the remodel qualification.

Council Member Brems noted that it is something they want the consultant to weigh in on in
the study, and it should be on the RFP.

   H. Emigration Canyon Potential Traffic Increase with the Closing of Neighboring Canyons
      – Sarah Bennett, Trails Utah Executive Director and Tolin Hessell, Engineer

Sarah Bennet gave a brief background of her involvement with Trails Utah and other local
committees that look at issues like congestion and trail planning from the perspective of the
Central Wasatch Commission. She and Council Member Harris had discussed that both
Millcreek Canyon and City Creek Canyon will be closed for much of the next few years for
various improvements. She then suggested a discussion regarding what those closures will
mean for Emigration Canyon in terms of the public trying to get out. She knows the community
has resisted formalizing trail access in many places, but she thinks they may be forced to
come up with a signage plan and a general plan for managing those coming into the canyon
looking for places to recreate.

Tolin Hessell shared that Engineering had recently hired a traffic engineer and he has
discussed this with him. They agree there will be an increase in traffic, including bicycles, and
the best suggestion for managing that is traffic calming. The most effective options seen in
main roads through rural communities are things like speed feedback signs with over the
posted speed limit notices and the speed marked on the pavement as you’re driving.

Council Member Brems noted that Copperton has a park maintenance budget of $219,000,
Kearns has $429,000 and Magna has $371,000, but Emigration Canyon and Brighton have
zero. Trails and bicycle lanes deserve the same budgetary considerations as parks from the
MSD to help.

Mr. Hessell replied that those budgets are mostly for things like physical park maintenance
which includes mowing, watering, etc. He does agree that some investment in things like
trailhead enhancements would be beneficial.

Council Member Hawkes noted that their spaces are used for recreation, even if they aren’t
designated parks; that is still open space that could use a management plan in place.

Council Member Brems said most of the users are from outside the canyon.

Ms. Bennett said they really need to prepare for roadside parking, because the city doesn’t
have any established trailhead drawing traffic. The Tall Grass Gulley Trail, just below the fire
station on the north side of the road, gets consistent parking; that is private property where


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 10


some builders were placed to try and control the parking. They will start seeing things like that
instead of having a few cars, they will have 10-20 at a time. With current social media and
apps that track outdoor recreation, routes like that get out quickly and are found fast. Signage
related to roadside parking would be helpful, and she referenced Brighton, Silver Fork and Big
Cottonwood Canyon’s suffering from roadside parking. The town of Brighton is now charging
for cars to park alongside the roads in fact, and that funds a recreation fund.

Council Member Harris shared they are already seeing that surge in Killian and Pinecrest, and
she agrees the parking does have the biggest impact, along with safety. Catherine – already
seeing it in some areas and she thinks the parking is the biggest impact, and an issue for
safety with cars coming down the road while another is sticking out even just a little bit. In both
Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons they have been very proactive about where parking is
allowed and when, and they are charging money for parking. She thinks this community would
be well served doing something similar. They have to maintain bike access since it’s a public
road, but they don’t have to allow people to park along the road.

Council Member Brems brought up another serious issue, the dogwalkers coming up into the
canyon. Some of those visitors are conscientious, but many are not, and it’s a real mess. He
doesn’t know the answer, but something needs to be done.

Council Member Harris asked what the city’s options are for parking restrictions from a legal
standpoint.

Mr. Platt responded as long as there is a rational basis for the fees, like overcrowding and
parking in the middle of the road, fees could be instituted to prevent encroaching on private
property and obstructions. There has to be personnel to monitor things, signage, a reservation
system potentially, etc.

Council Member Harris noted the city doesn’t have those capabilities yet like the other
communities enacting those things and believes if signs showing parking areas are present
most people will follow them, or at least make an attempt. She then asked Tolin how the MSD
would help with figuring all this out.

Mr. Hessell noted they would have to survey the areas with the most traffic and formalize
parking there with signage and specific space for the spots.

Council Member Harris would be willing to assist with finding those areas and pointing them
out for staff. A thoughtful approach to this seems like the best idea.

Mr. Hessell believes MSD staff can work on drafting a management plan, and if it’s beyond
MSD capacity it could be hired out.

Ms. Bennett and Council Member Harris are both willing to help with identifying those more
visited spots.

Jennifer suggested a work session to discuss this further.

Mr. Hessell will discuss all of this with Engineering and set things up in the future.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 11


Ms. Bennett said that even signage indicating where parking is allowed and not allowed at
least gives the public an idea that the space is being managed, it’s not just a free for all.

Council Member Harris also mentioned dog waste bags, noting that many will grab bags and
use them if available, but providing and maintaining waste receptacles are another hurdle.

The council asked to have this item continue to the February agenda.

   I. Discussion Regarding Additional Speed Limit Signs – Deputy Mayor Hawkes and
      Tolin Hessell, Engineer

Mayor Smolka stated that the desired speed limit signs have been ordered.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes wished to continue the discussion, as she was unaware of what signs
had been ordered, how many, and their future locations. There are currently no signs from the
fire station to the mouth of the canyon. She indicated they have discussed this with the
engineers as well with no updates.

Mr. Hessell remembers discussing this with MSD staff, and he has driven through the canyon
to see the area. According to the MUTCD the signs weren’t considered needed, but if this is
something the council wants it should be worked on

Council Member Harris said particularly going down the canyon and where Pioneer Fork goes
into Emigration Canyon is a public road that goes from 25 mph to 40 mph, and there are no
signs indicating that. There are also other public roads that meet up with the main canyon road
where the same issue presents.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes focused on two specific places she is looking to get signage for. One is
from the fire station to the mouth of the canyon, and they are within the mileage requirement
for needing multiple signs, especially with the speed limit going from 40 to 30. The other
section is in Pinecrest, just above the restrooms. There has been public concern about a sign
to slow speeds down to 25 mph.

Council Member Harris asked Mayor Smolka how many signs had been ordered, and where
they were being placed.

Mayor Smolka responded, per the last discussion, he was directed to order signs, which he
did. One below Skycrest to cover the lower part of the canyon, then a reduced speed to 30
mph down by Donner Monument, and that’s what was ordered. There is adequate signage in
Pinecrest, and Officer Wilson has been doing additional enforcement in the area and attested
to the speeds not being what the resident claimed, they are substantially lower. Officer Wilson
has pulled over six people up there and given them warnings.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes was grateful there was some work done on the lower half of the
canyon, and she encouraged the council to look at areas when complaints come in.

   J. Discussion Regarding 2025 Elections – Deputy Mayor Hawkes



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 12


Deputy Mayor Hawkes discussed amending Title 2 and the upcoming elections. She would like
to review more in-depth the duties that would come with the new form of government, as well
as make a decision on the authority the mayor would have with the new options.

Cameron Platt gave a brief overview of the five-person form of government, noting that the
mayor becomes essentially the CEO of the city, in charge of enforcing the policies being
passed. In addition, the mayor would be the chair of the council. The council collectively also
holds the same executive powers and can do the same as the mayor as a group.

Council Member Brems said that White City’s Attorney, Paul Ashton, told him if a current
member of the council wanted to run for mayor, they would have to give up their current seat to
do so. He was encouraged to ask Emigration Canyon’s attorney about that.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes also wants to discuss, prior to the election, if they are going to
potentially increase the wages of the mayor.

Council Member Harris asked about having a work session to talk about these issues, as she
feels they are not completing discussions during their meetings. She also brought up the issue
of separate phones for council members, rather than using their personal/work phones. Now
that they are a city she feels those issues should be discussed.

Mayor Smolka agrees with having a work session and discussing separate phones.

The council decided to hold a work session before the next council meeting on February 18,
2025 at 6:00 pm.

8. City Attorney Updates

   A. Annual Conflict of Interest Forms for Council Members and Staff – Cameron Platt,
      Legal Counsel

   B. Open and Public Meetings Act Training Requirements – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel

The council agreed to have Attorney Cameron Platt lead a training session to fulfill the
requirement during the March Council Meeting.

   C. Other Updates

9. Ongoing Projects

Mayor Smolka said the road widening is moving along slowly, he has no updates. The speed
limit signs are just waiting for updates on the installation.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes felt keeping it on the agenda allowed for them to talk about it at any
point and does not restrict the information.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 13


Mayor Smolka has chosen to keep it off because seeing it tends to get residents excited when
there is actually nothing to report on.

Council Member Hawkes noted that she has not had any updates from Engineering regarding
the project and she worries that they will be the ones driving the project, rather than the council
having input if there are no updates or communication.

Mayor Smolka said that things are just really slow right now and starting in February/March
there should start being updates.

The council asked to have the item put on February’s agenda and to have it close to the
beginning of Council Business.

10. Council Member Reports

   A. Council Member Brems

       1. Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
          Area (SLVLESA)

The new Mayor of Midvale was present, Dustin Gettel, and introduced at the UPD Board
Meeting. Council Member Brems was elected the chair for 2025. UPD is close to being fully
staffed, with no more mandatory overtime currently. He went to another meeting last week to
meet with Heather Anderson, a lobbyist for UPD. She reported on the collective bargaining law
being proposed. There was a brief discussion on questions regarding the expectations on
coordination with UPD on ICE requests. SLVLESA gained two new board members from the
Salt Lake County Council, Carlos Moreno and Arlen Bradshaw, Karen Keegley was elected as
the new chair, with Cardenas staying as the Vice Chair. Board members also signed conflict of
interest forms there.

       2. Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

No new updates, they are working hard on the new ordinances.

       3. Community Renewable Energy Program

There is a current RFP out, there may be more to report during the February meeting.

   B. Council Member Harris

       1. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

Attended UFA Board Meeting, filled out another conflict of interest form there. Nothing much to
report with either group that hasn’t been already covered by Chief Bryan Case. Upcoming
public meeting will be held on February 18, 2025 at 7:30 am to reconcile the budget, and that
public notice will be sent to the City Recorder, Diana Baun to post on the Utah Public Notice



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 14


Website. Annual fire school on March 21, she is unable to attend and would love to have
others attend on behalf of Emigration Canyon. It is a full day event experiencing what it’s like to
be a firefighter. She is working on planning a meeting with community representatives as well
as UFA and Fire Forestry and State Lands to start discussing planned projects for defensible
space and community fields reduction later this year.

       2. Watershed Plan

No updates. There is a current plan, run by the Division of Water Quality, that they still feel
needs some editing. Emigration Canyon has been reimbursed for everything they paid for
consulting, and the consultant is no longer involved because the Division of Water Quality did
not want them involved after their completion.

   C. Council Member Pinon

       1. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

There was a board meeting yesterday where they signed a conflict of interest form as well as a
financial disclosure form. They discussed the new truck purchases for 2025, including eight
new diesel trucks to diversify the CNG fleet; the board agreed to the choice. The biggest
change coming is the billing frequency, which will switch to monthly rather than quarterly, and
that will be announced soon.

       2. Utah Broadband

No update.

       3. Update on Possible High-Density Development

In the last two months this has been postponed twice, and again from last week as work
session to February 18th. There hasn’t been anything developed to present, but if there is a call
to action needed, Chrissy Gillmore will let him know. There were also other requested studies
missing that need to be included for review before this can go further.

   D. Deputy Mayor Hawkes

       1. Website (www.ecmetro.org)

She is continually updating the website, and she is making some changes, but that will be
ongoing. She has added the page for the disclosures, city staff and new meeting time. She
would like to make it easier to navigate and she will also add the UFA updates when she gets
them from Chief Case. If anyone has recommendations or changes, she asked them to contact
her.

       2. CodeRED



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 15


No updates or upcoming events. She feels it would be beneficial to have a mailer or something
that goes out, as well potentially a yearly “mock” CodeRED to ensure members of the
community are seeing them. In the past people weren’t getting the alerts because the pin
wasn’t clicked on their address, and she’d like to try and work through those little things with an
emergency drill. There is a capability for a two-way reply, so those receiving the alert can
respond.

       3. Association of Municipal Governments

No updates.

       4. Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

No current updates, she will have more information soon. The League will keep them updated
on Trump blocking Federal Aid and Loans, which was apparently overturned by a judge. There
was some confusion on what the block would involve, so The League suggested compiling a
list of Federal Funding the community receives to ensure they have a primary point of contact
for each funding source from the Federal Government. She asked Mayor Smolka if the city has
any federally funded projects.

Mayor Smolka responded the road widening has some federal funds. The engineers should be
able to collect that information while doing the paperwork.

Council Member Hawkes mentioned a survey requested by The League on fluoride treatment
in the water and will send that out to those involved after the meeting. Several bills are being
tracked currently including HB 58-S-1, Building inspector amendments; House Economic
Development and Workforce Service, HB 23-S-2, Block Chain and Digital Innovation; SB 139-
S-1, Mineral Rights; HB 44-S-3, Private Airport Notice; HB 44. She will send the list and
updates to everyone with the tracking sheet, along with the emails she gets with updates. Polly
mentioned having three individuals voting, but they are not all in the same room or discussing
anything together, so is that allowed.

Cameron Platt explained that for open meetings with a quorum they can’t discuss or take
action on anything that involves business for the city. Since this would not involve taking action
on Emigration Canyon business, they are okay to discuss with their vote.

There was a discussion on the .gov emails and forwarding of previous .org email addresses.
Mayor Smolka explained that the old emails will not continually forward, and that they need to
move their contacts over on their own. The council and staff then discussed archiving old
emails and how that would work with GRAMA. Diana explained that the retention requirements
for emails are different than other records. Emails don’t go to the state archives, they are only
required to be kept until they accomplish their administrative purpose. If there is ever a
GRAMA request, all emails kept can be requested and shared.

   E. Mayor Smolka




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 16


      1. Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Building is progressing nicely with some of the furniture having arrived. They will be setting up
the cubicles soon and anticipating a move around March 1st to the 15th. Engineering has
moved over to the MSD, things are going pretty smooth and Lizel, the director, is working very
hard to be on top of the projects and keep things moving. A large chunk of the contracts with
Engineering are being moved over to the MSD, and Engineering will be establishing new pools
of contractors to pull from in the future. Things are going much, much smoother than when
Planning and Development moved over, and he thanked the team for their hard work on this.

      2. Landfill Council

Year-end reports were given, they are a few million dollars ahead on revenues this past year
which allows for replacing some equipment as needed and putting more money into the final
closure fund.

      3. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee

No updates, next meeting is in March or April. Shared an issue with WFWRD, a delinquency
notice for $62.91 for some garbage cans. He is working with WFWRD to figure out if there are
even any garbage cans at the specific location, or if they are assigned to the house next door.
Pam has directed him to the right contacts for working that issue out.

      4. Council of Governments (COG)

Reassigned previous assignments for all committees, elections necessitated some movement.

      5. Legislative Update

He read through HB 48 with Chief Case, noting it could have significant impacts on the city and
is worth following. There are several other bills that are still early, next month the Justice
Courts will be on the agenda. The council will discuss the bill proposed to end the Salt Lake
County Justice Courts and how that affects Emigration Canyon. He is also working on options
to allow a substitute council member to attend the MSD meetings when he is unable to, as that
is currently not an option.

Council Member Hawkes added that The League is tracking a bill on signage/billboards and
asked everyone to keep an eye on that as well.

11. Public Comments

Janet Haskill – went through the emergency management plan document and wondered
about the comment that the MSD or the county not coming to the city’s aid for at least five days
as an estimate. They would be relying on the city’s own emergency plan during that time, and
she wanted to mention that, noting she didn’t know if the city even had its own emergency



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 17


plan. On the road improvement/expansion project, she asked if the planning commission will
be weighing in at any time during that project.

Council Member Brems responded probably not.

Lyska Emerson – noted that while driving through the canyon you see lots of dead trees,
which is just what you see from the road. However, if you walk on properties, you will see even
more dead trees, and there are a lot. What can be done as prevention, and she would like to
see that focused on in light of the LA fires. She asked if cars parked by Ruth’s during the
summer are fire hazards with the grass underneath.

Chief Case responded yes, and that’s exactly what they are thinking about when they mention
the parking issues when traffic gets high. A hot catalytic converter can absolutely start a
catastrophic fire and that is a concern.

Council Member Harris noted that is yet another pressing reason to manage increased traffic
in the canyon. In addition, mowing the grass on the side of the road makes a huge difference
in terms of risk.

Ms. Emerson asked if Camp K allows parking there.

Deputy Mayor Hawkes responded that there has been overflow parking in the past. Salt Lake
City owns part of the parking for the diner, and there is some negotiation with the overflow
which is on private property.

Gary Bowen added that he has visited with someone there about putting a gate up to block
parking, but the owner chose not to, so Camp K is welcome to park in there. Part of the
parking being referred to is owned by Salt Lake City as mentioned, but it is under the control of
Camp K as well; they could block off a great deal of that parking if they chose to, but they
choose not to.

12. Future Agenda Items

Council Member Pinon brought up the ULCT Conference in April will be in St. George and he
would like to discuss that on the next agenda in terms of who wants to go, how it’s covered,
who will represent, etc. That is where the survey project for the community from Utah State
came from and he would like to follow up on those survey results from last year.

13. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

   A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental               Health
      of an Individual.

   B. Pending or Reasonably Imminent Litigation.

   C. Purchase, Exchange, or Lease of Real Property.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 18


   D. Deployment of Security Personnel.

No closed session needed.

14. Adjourn

Council Member moved to adjourn the January 28, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council
Meeting. Council Member Harris seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

The January 28, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council Meeting adjourned at 10:24 PM.

Minutes Approved by the City Council on the 25th day of February 2025:


ATTEST:




                                                          Joe Smolka, Mayor


Diana Baun, Recorder




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                            Emigration Canyon Monthly Report January 2025
                                            Calls for service: 31   Initial Reports: 14   Citations: 7




Crime/Police Stats:

In the month of January 2025, Unified Police Department responded to 31 calls for service. Most of which dealt
with traffic issues. We had 2 vehicle assists, a welfare check and a DUI, among other incidents. 7 citations
were issues, most of them dealing with expired registration, and one dealing with a dog walker having more
than 6 dogs. There was a major accident at the firehouse, where the driver was arrested for DUI. There was also
a snowplow that rolled on Pinecrest Canyon Road, speed was determined to be the cause of this crash. There
was one issue dealing with bicyclists not stopping for the school bus in Emigration Oaks. Detective Larsen is
currently working on several fraud cases that occurred in the canyon. Officer Wilson is going to take a job
transfer and work in Brighton, UPD is currently looking for a replacement for his position.



EMC Member Council Concerns:

It was brought to UPD’s attention that there is a concern of an increased number of dog walkers using the trails
in Emigration Canyon. UPD officers will take extra steps to perform trail patrol, making sure dog walkers clean
up after their dogs and are not exceeding the allowed number of dogs (6). Bicyclists have started to increase in
the canyon during warmer days, UPD will take extra steps to ensure the motorists and cyclists are following the
rules and regulations to keep all canyon users safe.



 CALLS FOR SERVICE OFFENSE                                          COUNTS
 Animal Calls                                                       2
 Hit and Run                                                        1
 Fraud                                                              1
 Traffic                                                            3
 DUI                                                                1
 Welfare Check                                                      1
 Impound                                                            1
 Vehicle Assist                                                     2
 Suspicious                                                         1
 Burglar Alarm                                                      1


 CITATION OFFENSES                                                  COUNTS
 Reckless                                                           1
 Registration                                                       4
 DUI                                                                1
 Excess Animals                                                     1
Heat Map of Calls for Service in Emigration Canyon
                                                                                                                                                    2026 Capital Improvement Projects - Emigration Canyon Requests
                                                                                                                                               Project Name                                                                                     Total         Project Phase(s) budgeted in                          Project Scope
  Ranking within Jurisdiction                      MSD Project Category                          Project #                                 (30 Characters or less)      Jurisdiction         Grant Revenue         MSD Expense Budget          Budget         (Design, ROW, Construction)                          (2-3 Sentences)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Local match funds for an environmental study, public
                     1                                  Grant Contract                     EFCMC240002              Emigration Canyon Road Widening Project          Emigration Canyon        $6,157,000       $                100,000.00       $6,257,000                                  meetings, public involvement, identify potential community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             impacts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Design and construct a retaining wall along the west side of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Freeze Creek (directly east of the north half of Margarethe
                     2                                 General Request                                              Freeze Creek Wall Reconstruction                 Emigration Canyon                         $                350,000.00         $350,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ln) as a reconstruct of the failing gabion wall or another
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             system like precast modular block retaining wall.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Reconstruct the failed segmental retaining wall and culvert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in the easement at the north end of Margarethe Ln. Address
                     3                                 General Request                                              Margarethe Ln Drainage Project                   Emigration Canyon                         $                    70,000          $70,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the drainage issue at the NW corner of Emigration Canyon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rd and Margarethe Ln.

                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL          $      6,157,000.00                      $520,000 $   6,677,000.00




C:\Users\DBaun\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\INetCache\Content.Outlook\JM78DLQ2\FY26 Capital Improvement Project Requests - Emigration
EC New Projects 2026                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2/21/2025
                                                                2026 Capital Improvement Projects - Emigration Canyon Carryover Projects
                                                                                                                                                                              Project Phase(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                  budgeted
                                     Project Name                                                                                                           FY2024 YE Total    (Design, ROW,                       Project Scope                         Other Funding Sources
       Project #                  (30 Charcters or less)                      Jurisdiction             MSD Expense Budget                  Grant Revenue        Budget          Construction)                     (2-3 Sentences)                      (i.e. UDOT, FED, ORD, SB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Stabilize red wall and fin wall - first phase      Original budget had $2,022,261
 EFCMC210020              Canyon Slope Stabilization                     Emigration Canyon                                                                         $464,487
                                                                                                                                                                                                 complete. Second phase is road widening.           bond funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Update floodplain mapping by obtaining a Letter Original budget had $55,864
 EFCMC220010              Emigration FEMA Flood Map                      Emigration Canyon                                                                          $12,500                      of Map Revision (LOMR) from FEMA associated ARPA funds; this has been
                                                                                                                                                                                                 with Emigration Creek and Burr Creek            spent or allocated elsewhere
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Widen approximately 1.8 miles of Emigration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WFRC, TIF $6.4M in
                          Emigration Canyon Rd                                                                                                                                                   Canyon Rd from 5655 Emigration Canyon Rd to
 EFCMC240002                                                             Emigration Canyon                                                  $6,157,000             $165,960                                                                          federal/state grants for
                          Widening                                                                                                                                                               Pinecrest Canyon Rd to provide dedicated bike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                 lane(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Replace Emigration Creek culverts at Skycrest
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ln, Cedarlof Ln, and Killyons Creek at Killyons Ln.
 EFCMC240003              Emigration Creek Culverts                      Emigration Canyon                                                                         $612,666
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Existing creeks and creek banks damaged from
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2023 flooding

                                                                                 TOTAL                $                         -              $6,157,000        $1,255,613




C:\Users\DBaun\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\INetCache\Content.Outlook\JM78DLQ2\FY26 Capital Improvement Project Requests - Emigration
EC Carryover Projects 2026                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2/21/2025
                                                                                                                                                                     2026 Capital Improvement Projects - All Requests
                                                                                                                                               Project Name                                                                                               Total         Project Phase(s) budgeted in                            Project Scope
  Ranking within Jurisdiction                      MSD Project Category                         Project #                                  (30 Characters or less)              Jurisdiction         Grant Revenue          MSD Expense Budget           Budget         (Design, ROW, Construction)                            (2-3 Sentences)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Transportation Plans for all jurisdictions in the MSD including
                                                    Integration with LRP                                          MSD Transportation Master Plan                                    All                                                    $100,000          $100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       one cohesive transportation strategy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fund for Traffic Counts (Ongoing Contract) for Traffic
                                                    Integration with LRP                                          MSD Traffic Counts                                                All                                                     $50,000           $50,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Engineering
                                                         Safety Priority                                          Cougar Lane Crosswalk                                           Kearns                                                   $100,000          $100,000                                  Crosswalk with RRFB across Cougar Lane at Ed Mayne.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Median on 4015 W from 5400 S to beginning of northbound
                                                         Safety Priority                                          4015 West Median                                                Kearns                                                   $100,000          $100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       left turn pocket.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Current project likely has a funding shortfall. This is to
                                                                                           EFCMC240004 4220 W Sidewalk                                                            Kearns                                                   $400,000          $400,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       supplement the budget.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Funding is for study, concept development, and public
                                                 Future Grant Opportunity                                         4420 West Reconstruct                                           Kearns                                                   $100,000          $100,000                                  involvement for future project. After we have study and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       concept we will apply for grants.
                                                       General Request                                            5400 South Corridor Study                                       Kearns                                                    $50,000           $50,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Construction/improvement of mobility hubs in Kearns
                                                       General Request                                            Mobility Hub Project                                            Kearns                                                   $100,000          $100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (potentially added water fountains)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       At the request of SLCO Operations, this project will add an
                                                       General Request                     EFCMC210026 Cedar Hill Basin                                                       Unincorporated                                                $80,000           $80,000                                  access driveway and control gate to an existing storm drain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pond to allow for easier maintenance at 5920 Cedar Hill Rd.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       There are two storm drain outlets that dump onto the hillside
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       along dimple dell road that are eroding the bank and will
                                                                                           EFCMC240005 Dimple Dell Drainage Repair                                            Unincorporated                            $                500,000.00          $500,000                                  soon undermine the road shoulder. This project will extend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the pipe down to the bottom of the channel and repair the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       erosion. This project is likely to have a shortfall when bid.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sidewalk, Curb, and Gutter on the South side of 8420 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Street, near Mesa Drive (address 8430 South Mesa Drive),
                                                       General Request                                            8430 Mesa Drive Sidewalk                                    Unincorporated                                               $420,000          $420,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       side of the house on the hill. Will require significant retaining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       walls and impacts to existing landscaping, fence, etc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Adding street lights to an existing street. Approximately 4
                                                       General Request                                            8175 South Street Lighting                                  Unincorporated                                                $75,000           $75,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lights needed.
                                                        Grant Contract                     EFCMC240021 Galaxie Median Extension                                               Unincorporated                 $80,800                        $10,000           $90,800                                  Extend the median on 1300 E at Galaxie Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Construct paving, roadside ditches, detention, and retention
                                                       General Request                                            Majestic Oaks Lane                                          Unincorporated                                             $3,400,000        $3,400,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       for Majestic Oaks Lane.
                                                       General Request                                            Poppy Lane Street Lighting                                    White City                                                 $500,000          $500,000                                  Add street lighting to Poppy Lane in White City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Connect Canal Trail from Bear Park to 9400 S (coordinate
                                                    Integration with LRP                                          Big Bear Park Canal Trail                                     White City                                                 $630,000          $630,000                                  however we can with Sandy City to utilize the canal corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and get it done right)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Addresses a drainage problem at the corner of Larkspur Drive
                                                        Grant Contract                     EFCMC230002 Larkspur and Peony Improvements                                          White City                  $277,288                        $25,000          $302,288                                  and Peony Way. October 2025 funding (Federal FY2026).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $277,288 grant and $21,712 local funds.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Current project likely has a funding shortfall. This is to
                                                                                           EFCMC230003 Onyx Lane Sidewalk                                                       White City                                                 $500,000          $500,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       supplement the budget.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Design and construct the Park Street Extension Project and
                     1                                 General Request                                            Copperton Storm Drain Phase 2                                 Copperton                               $                830,000.00          $830,000                                  the Carr Fork and Apex Rd Pipeline Project in the Storm Drain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Master Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Local match funds for an environmental study, public
                     1                                  Grant Contract                     EFCMC240002 Emigration Canyon Road Widening Project                               Emigration Canyon        $6,157,000        $                100,000.00        $6,257,000                                  meetings, public involvement, identify potential community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       impacts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Design and construct a retaining wall along the west side of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Freeze Creek (directly east of the north half of Margarethe
                     2                                 General Request                                            Freeze Creek Wall Reconstruction                           Emigration Canyon                          $                350,000.00          $350,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ln) as a reconstruct of the failing gabion wall or another
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       system like precast modular block retaining wall.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Reconstruct the failed segmental retaining wall and culvert in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the easement at the north end of Margarethe Ln. Address the
                     3                                 General Request                                            Margarethe Ln Drainage Project                             Emigration Canyon                          $                   70,000            $70,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       drainage issue at the NW corner of Emigration Canyon Rd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       and Margarethe Ln.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UDOT updated the project cost estimate per their concept
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       report from our grant application. Previous local match
                     1                                  Grant Contract                     EFCMC240013 RAISE Magna Downtown SW                                                    Magna          $       2,981,676.00                      $422,905        $4,150,000                                  estimate ($745,419 in current budget) to be reimbursed by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TTIF grant, the amount shown would cover the difference in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       local match budget.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Design and construct sidewalk on the north side of 3100 S
                     2                                 General Request                                            3100 S Sidewalk Lighting and Overlay 8950 W to 9200 W           Magna                                 $                650,000.00          $650,000                                  from 8950 W to 9200 W with street lighting. Mill and overlay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       as well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Add street lighting on 3100 S from 7200 W to 9200 W and on
                     3                                 General Request                                            Magna Street Lighting Project                                   Magna                                 $                250,000.00          $250,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2700/2820 S from 7200 W to 8400 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Design and construct curb, gutter, and sidewalk where
                     4                                 General Request                                            3100 S Sidewalk and Overlay 8000 W to 8400 W                    Magna                                 $                775,000.00          $775,000                                  missing on the north side of 3100 S from 8000 W to 8400 W.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mill and overlay as well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mill and overlay 9000 W from 2700 S to 3100 S. Update curb
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ramps to be ADA compliant. ARPA funds not used for 8000W
                     5                                 General Request                                            9000 W Overlay                                                  Magna                                 $                275,000.00          $275,000                                  infrastructure (ie. landscaping), streetlight installation, park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       improvements, and community center supporting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       infrastructure may be allocated here.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mill and overlay 3100 S from 8400 W to 9200 W. Update
                     6                                 General Request                                            3100 S Sidewalk and Overlay 8400 W to 9200 W                    Magna                                 $              1,300,000.00        $1,300,000                                  curb ramps to be ADA compliant and address missing curb,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gutter, and sidewalk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Repair sub-base on 8800 W from 2700S to 3100 S. Recent
                     7                                 General Request                                            8800 W Reconstruct                                              Magna                                 $                900,000.00          $900,000                                  storm drain work did not have sufficient funds to overlay the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       road, just T patch

                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL          $      9,496,764.00                    $12,912,905 $   23,305,088.00




C:\Users\DBaun\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\INetCache\Content.Outlook\JM78DLQ2\FY26 Capital Improvement Project Requests - Emigration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2/21/2025
MSD New Projects 2026
                                                                                    2026 Capital Improvement Projects - MSD Carryover Projects
                                                                                                                                                                             Project Phase(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                 budgeted
                                     Project Name                                                                                                          FY2024 YE Total    (Design, ROW,                       Project Scope                         Other Funding Sources
       Project #                  (30 Charcters or less)                      Jurisdiction             MSD Expense Budget                  Grant Revenue       Budget          Construction)                     (2-3 Sentences)                      (i.e. UDOT, FED, ORD, SB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                Approximately 1/2 mile of wall and wider
 EFCMC190009              6200 South Sound Wall                                  Kearns
                                                                                                                                                                                                sidewalk along north side of 6200 South.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Add raised crossing on NW Ave and on Copper
 EFCMC200001              NW Ave Safety 5400 S-5975 S                            Kearns                                                                            $51,389
                                                                                                                                                                                                City Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Original budget had $300,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                Curb, gutter, and sidewalk on the north side of
 EFCMC210011              2820 S SW btw 7698 W-7440W                             Magna                                                      $1,502,549              $9,456                                                                          ARPA funds and $1,502,549
                                                                                                                                                                                                2820 S from 7750 W to 7360 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WFRC grant funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                Curb, gutter, and sidewalk on 8000W from
                                                                                                                                                                                                SR201 to 3100S and widen the road to include a
 EFCMC210017              80th West Widening                                     Magna                                                      $3,753,000             $11,031                                                                          WFRC grant funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                bike lane and dedicated turn lanes where
                                                                                                                                                                                                needed
                                                                                                                                                                                                Stabilize red wall and fin wall - first phase       Original budget had $2,022,261
 EFCMC210020              Canyon Slope Stabilization                     Emigration Canyon                                                                        $464,487
                                                                                                                                                                                                complete. Second phase is road widening.            bond funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                Construct new sidewalk along an unimproved
 EFCMC210025              Breeze Dr Sidewalk                                     Magna                                                       $346,525             $165,468                                                                          UDOT SRTS funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                section of Breeze Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                Roadway widening and improvements between
 EFCMC220001              Cougar Lane Widening                                   Kearns                                                                             $9,216
                                                                                                                                                                                                Niagra Way and Kearns High Drive.

                                                                                                                                                                                                Install drainage infrastructure on Park St, Apex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Original budget had $98,823
EFCMC220005               Copperton Storm Drain                               Copperton                                                                           $773,459                      Rd, SR209, and Copperton Cir to replace existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARPA and $650,892 bond funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                drainage under private properties.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $2,000,000 State
 EFCMC220009              Kearns 4015 W Bridge Replace                           Kearns                                                                         $2,050,723                      Replace Bridge with Canal Culvert on 4015 W         Appropriations + $450,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ARPA Funds minus spent design

                                                                                                                                                                                                Update floodplain mapping by obtaining a Letter Original budget had $55,864
EFCMC220010               Emigration FEMA Flood Map                      Emigration Canyon                                                                         $12,500                      of Map Revision (LOMR) from FEMA associated ARPA funds; this has been
                                                                                                                                                                                                with Emigration Creek and Burr Creek            spent or allocated elsewhere
                                                                                                                                                                                                Realign the intersection at 2820S and 8000W to
 EFCMC230001              8000 W 2700 S Realignment                              Magna                                                      $3,419,005             $36,925                      consolidate the offset T-intersection for traffic WFRC grant funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                Construct curb, gutter, and sidewalk on Onyx
 EFCMC230003              Onyx Lane Sidewalk                                  White City                                                                           $17,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                Lane from Big Bear Park to West end of Road

                                                                                                                                                                                                Construct curb, gutter, and sidewalk on the east
                                                                                                                                                                                                side of 8400W from north of Cordero Dr and       $160,000 Utah Railroad grant
 EFCMC230008              8400 W Rail Crossing                                   Magna                                                       $210,000             $188,942                      connect to the sidewalk north of the UPRR rail and $50,000 UDOT contingency
                                                                                                                                                                                                crossing. Sidewalk to be added on both sides of funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                8400W at the rail crossing
                                                                                                                                                                                                Reconstruct Magna Main from 9200W to 8400W
 EFCMC230009              Magna Main Reconstruct                                 Magna                                                                          $2,620,910                      by cement treating the road base due to
                                                                                                                                                                                                structural integrity issues
                                                                                                                                                                                                Repair bridges and streambanks on Neilson Ave
 EFCMC230011              Brighton Bridge Improvements                          Brighton                                                                          $229,840                                                                          $200,000 bond funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                and Central Fork Ln
                                                                                                                                                                                                Widen approximately 1.8 miles of Emigration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WFRC, TIF $6.4M in
                          Emigration Canyon Rd                                                                                                                                                  Canyon Rd from 5655 Emigration Canyon Rd to
 EFCMC240002                                                             Emigration Canyon                                                  $6,157,000            $165,960                                                                          federal/state grants for
                          Widening                                                                                                                                                              Pinecrest Canyon Rd to provide dedicated bike
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                lane(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                                Replace Emigration Creek culverts at Skycrest
                                                                                                                                                                                                Ln, Cedarlof Ln, and Killyons Creek at Killyons Ln.
 EFCMC240003              Emigration Creek Culverts                      Emigration Canyon                                                                        $612,666
                                                                                                                                                                                                Existing creeks and creek banks damaged from
                                                                                                                                                                                                2023 flooding
                                                                                                                                                                                                Construct curb, gutter, and sidewalk at 4220 W
 EFCMC240004              4220 W Sidewalk                                        Kearns                                                                            $17,949
                                                                                                                                                                                                between 5415 S and 5500 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                There are two storm drain outlets that dump
                                                                                                                                                                                                onto the hillside along dimple dell road that are
                                                                                                                                                                                                eroding the bank and will soon undermine the
 EFCMC240005              Dimple Dell Drainage Repair                      Unincorporated                                                                         $470,296
                                                                                                                                                                                                road shoulder. This project will extend the pipe
                                                                                                                                                                                                down to the bottom of the channel and repair
                                                                                                                                                                                                the erosion.

                                                                                                                                                                                                Roadway pavement design for Majestic Oaks
 EFCMC240006              Majestic Oaks Lane Design                        Unincorporated                                                                         $190,185
                                                                                                                                                                                                Lane from Rose Canyon Road to Coyote View
                                                                                                                                                                                                Regrade Sego Lily road west of the 1300 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                intersection to allow for a pedestrian crossing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Will involve rebuilding roadway, curb, gutter,
 EFCMC240008              Sego Lily Crossing at 1300 E                        White City                                                                           $10,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                and sidewalk, relocating/raising signal mast.
                                                                                                                                                                                                WFRC TAP grant (federal funds with local
                                                                                                                                                                                                match).
                          1000 E Sidewalk 8500 to 8600                                                                                                                                          New sidewalk on west side of 1000 E, from           $550,000 ORD Grant minus
 EFCMC240009                                                               Unincorporated                                                                         $546,160
                          S                                                                                                                                                                     about 8500 So to 8600 S                             surveyor charges
                                                                                                                                                                                                New Sidewalk on both sides of 8425 S from 700       $500,000 ORD Grant minus
 EFCMC240010              8425 S Sidewalk 700 to 745 E                     Unincorporated                                                                         $498,940
                                                                                                                                                                                                E to 745 E                                          surveyor charges
                          TC S Kearns Elem and Sams                                                                                                                                             Construct new ped ramps, speed humps, raised
 EFCMC240011                                                                     Kearns                                                                           $390,568
                          Blvd                                                                                                                                                                  crossings, signage, for traffic calming




C:\Users\DBaun\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\INetCache\Content.Outlook\JM78DLQ2\FY26 Capital Improvement Project Requests - Emigration
MSD Carryover Projects 2026                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2/21/2025
                                                                                                                                                                              Project Phase(s)
                                                                                                                                                                                  budgeted
                                     Project Name                                                                                                           FY2024 YE Total    (Design, ROW,                      Project Scope                          Other Funding Sources
       Project #                  (30 Charcters or less)                      Jurisdiction             MSD Expense Budget                  Grant Revenue        Budget          Construction)                    (2-3 Sentences)                       (i.e. UDOT, FED, ORD, SB)

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Replace deteriorated storm drain on 9080W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 from 2700S to 2600S; address flooding at 9085
 EFCMC240012              9080 W Storm Drain                                     Magna                                                                             $356,145
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2600S; and construct curb, gutter, and sidewalk
                                                                                                                                                                                                 on the east side of 9080W where missing

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Curb, gutter, and sidewalk east side of 8800W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Federal funding by RAISE grant.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 from 2700S to 2600S; east side of 8850W from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Currently have $750,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2700S to 2600S; east side of 8950W from 2700S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    budget to be reimbursed by
 EFCMC240013              RAISE Magna Downtown SW                                Magna                                                      $2,981,676             $750,000                      to 2900S; west and east sides of 8990W from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TTIF grant. Need additional
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2700S to 2600S; west and east sides of 9000W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $422,905 for local match - see
                                                                                                                                                                                                 from 2700S to 2800S; and east side of 9050W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    New Projects 2026 tab
                                                                                                                                                                                                 from 2700S to 2800S (approx. 4,865 LF total)

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Traffic calming projects on 4820 W (5015 S to
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5100 S - stripe & DFS), Henley Drive (5600 W to
 EFCMC240015              Kearns Traffic Calming 2025                            Kearns                                                                             $31,272                      Heath - stripe and DFS), Twilight Drive (Salem to May use ARPA funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Misty Way - DFS), and Dewdrops Drive (6200 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                 to 5530 Wilberry Cir - stripe)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mill and overlay a large area including Heath
 EFCMC240016              Heath Area Overlay                                     Kearns                                                                            $873,624                                                                         May use ARPA funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Avenue and surrounding streets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sidewalk on South side of the 8425 S from 1300
                          8425 S Sidewalk 1300 to 1510                                                                                                                                           East to 1510 East - Requested by School District
 EFCMC240018                                                               Unincorporated                                                                          $596,539
                          E                                                                                                                                                                      for Peruvian Park Elementary. Sandy Hills also
                                                                                                                                                                                                 requested crosswalks as part of this project.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Replace undersized storm drain pipe from
 EFCMC240020              Marble Street Storm Drain                           White City                                                                           $385,000                      Eastmon Middle School to Dimple Dell Park,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 down Marble Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Update Magna stormwater and transportation
 EFMC240022               Master Plan Updates                                    Magna                                                                             $120,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                 master plans.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Construct approx 720 LF of sidewalk, curb,
 EFMC240023               9100 W Sidewalk                                        Magna                                                       $371,745              $366,825                      and gutter on the west side of 9100W               CDBG grant funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                 between 2700S and 2820S

                                                                                 TOTAL                $                         -             $18,741,500       $13,025,031




C:\Users\DBaun\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\INetCache\Content.Outlook\JM78DLQ2\FY26 Capital Improvement Project Requests - Emigration
MSD Carryover Projects 2026                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2/21/2025
                               EMIGRATION CANYON

       RESOLUTION NO. R2025-01                                  DATE: February 25, 2025

       A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL
            SERVICES DISTRICT COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY
                         MANAGEMENT PLAN

       WHEREAS, a Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (“CEMP”) provides an
emergency management system encompassing all aspects of pre­emergency preparedness and
post-emergency response, recovery and mitigation; and

       WHEREAS, a CEMP can reduce the vulnerability of citizens in the community of
Emigration Canyon (“Emigration”) to loss of life, injury, damage and destruction of property
during natural, technological, or human-caused emergencies and disasters or during hostile
military or paramilitary actions; and

        WHEREAS, a CEMP can help Emigration Canyon: (1) prepare for prompt and
efficient response and recovery to protect lives and property affected by emergencies and
disasters; (2) respond to emergencies using all systems, plans and resources necessary to
preserve the health, safety and welfare of persons affected by an emergency; and (3) recover
from emergencies and disasters by providing for the rapid and orderly restoration and
rehabilitation of persons and property affected by emergencies; and

      WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is located within the jurisdiction of the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”), which has adopted a CEMP; and

      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Council desires to adopt the MSD’s CEMP as the
Emigration Canyon CEMP in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON
     COUNCIL:

     1.      Adoption of an Emergency Operations Plan. The Council hereby adopts the
MSD’s CEMP, attached as Exhibit 1, as the emergency operations plan for Emigration
Canyon, including its designation of an alert plan, and alert system.

       2.      Adoption of the National Incident Management System (“NIMS”). The
Council adopts the NIMS as a framework to integrate and coordinate the emergency response
and recovery actions of all levels of government in Emigration Canyon.

       3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately.

                               [Execution on following page]
       APPROVED and ADOPTED this 25th day of February 2025.

EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL


By: ____________________
Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST:


By: ____________________
Diana Baun, City Recorder


EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL VOTE:



Mayor Smolka                voting ___
Council Member Hawkes       voting ___
Council Member Brems        voting ___
Council Member Pinion       voting ___
Council Member Harris       voting ___




                                         2
                  2024 Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan




                  Greater Salt Lake
          Municipal Services District
                    Comprehensive
                        Emergency
                 Management Plan
1|Pa ge
                    Base Plan | September 2024




          THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY




2|Pa ge
    i.     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
 The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Comprehensive Emergency Management
 Plan (MSD CEMP) establishes the framework through which Greater Salt Lake Municipal
 Services District (MSD) and the communities it serves (Towns of Brighton and Copperton,
 Emigration Canyon, Magna City, White City, and the City of Kearns) respond to, recover from,
 prepare for, and mitigate against all hazards that threaten it. Local government has the
 primary responsibility of emergency management activities. When the emergency exceeds
 the local government’s capabilities to respond, the local government will then request
 assistance from the MSD. When the MSD exceeds its capabilities, it will then request
 assistance from Salt Lake County, and then the State of Utah. The Federal Government will
 aid the State when appropriate. This plan is based upon the concept that the
 emergency functions for municipal departments, functions or groups will generally
 parallel their normal day-to-day functions. To the extent possible, the same personnel
 and material resources will be employed in both cases.

 Along with the Hazard Analysis, this plan is intended to be used as a guiding document
 when executing response or recovery operations during a disaster or emergency and to
 guide preparedness and mitigation operations.

 Navigating the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan

 The following sections in the CEMP provide direction on emergency or disaster activation,
 response, recovery, preparedness, and mitigation procedures.

 Activation occurs after identifying an occurring or imminent emergency or disaster
 incident. Operations in this section include:

    ●    Assessing the scope and potential impacts of the emergency
    ●    Convening the Policy Group and senior leadership to determine response
         priorities and next steps
    ●    Activating the CEMP to facilitate response and recovery operations
    ●    Determining if the MSD ECC will be activated to support response and
         recovery operations
    ●    Staffing the MSD Emergency Coordination Center [MSD ECC] to facilitate and
         support response and recovery operations

 Response includes immediate operations following the identification of an occurring or
 imminent emergency or disaster to save lives and prevent further property damage.
 Operations in this section include:

    ●    Forming a common operating picture to ensure situational awareness among
         responding entities
    ●    Developing and documenting incident priorities through the Incident Action Plan (IAP)

3|Pa ge
    ●   Issuing and/or coordinating with the County for timely and accurate public warning and
        guidance to the community
    ●   Implementing protective actions, such as evacuations and sheltering, to save lives and
        property
    ●   Coordinating with partners such as other municipalities, the County, and the State to
        support emergency or disaster response
    ●   Documenting response operations to support audits, documentation policies, and
        transition to recovery operations

 Recovery operations support returning the community to pre-emergency or disaster
 conditions. Operations in this section include:

    ●   Transitioning from response to recovery operations
    ●   Assessing recovery needs of the community to execute targeted recovery operations
    ●   Initiating long-term recovery efforts to support the community returning to normal

 Preparedness operations prepare for and mitigate the impacts of all hazards. Operations in
 this section include:

    ●   Developing planning documentation to formalize capabilities and procedures that
        prepare for and mitigate the impacts of emergencies and disasters
    ●   Conducting mitigation planning to build resilience and identify mitigation actions to
        lessen the impacts of specific hazards
    ●   Training and exercising on plans and procedures to support execution of response and
        recovery operations
    ●   Involving the public in emergency management through outreach to increase
        community preparedness




4|Pa ge
   ii. PROMULGATION
 Transmitted herewith is the Greater Salt Lake County Municipal Services District Comprehensive
 Emergency Management Plan (MSD CEMP). The MSD CEMP was developed through the
 collaborative efforts of t h e MSD, stakeholders from the Town of Brighton, Copperton,
 Emigration Canyon, Magna City, White City, The City of Kearns, Salt Lake County
 Emergency Management, and the Utah Division of Emergency Management (DEM).

 The MSD appreciates the cooperation and support from all stakeholders that contributed
 to the development of the MSD CEMP. The Towns and Cities, Municipal Service District,
 County and State organizations listed in this plan will review the MSD CEMP for accuracy on a
 periodic basis.

 The MSD CEMP and its supporting documents supersede any previous Emergency Management
 plan and have been approved for implementation by:




  Name                               Position                            Date




5|Pa ge
          THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY




6|Pa ge
   iii. RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION
             Table 1: Record of Distribution
                                                      Number off
      Name    Title         Agency       MM/DD/YYYY
                                                        Copies




7|Pa ge
          THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY




8|Pa ge
   iii. RECORD OF REVISION
                     Table 2: Record of Revision
     Section Title   Revision Summar        Date      Revised By (Name)

                                         MM/DD/YYYY




9|Pa ge
               THIS PAGE LEFT BLANK INTENTIONALLY




10 | P a g e
Table of Contents
  i EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ......................................................................................................3

  ii PROMULGATION ............................................................................................................. 5

  iii RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION........................................................................................... 7

  iv RECORD OF REVISION .................................................................................................... 9

 1. BASE PLAN INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................... …...13

    1.1 Scope…………………………………………………………………………………………………………….14
    1.2 Purpose…………………………………………………………………………………………………………14
    1.3 Hazard Overview ........................................................................................ 14

  2.0 ASSUMPTIONS............................................................................................................. 15
    2.1 Activation................................................................................................................... 17
    2.2 Activation Phase ............................................................................................................ 17
          2.2.1 Assess the Emergency ............................................................................................ 18
    2.3 Determine Whether CEMP Activation is Required .................................. 18
           2.3.1 Convene Policy Group and Senior Leadership....................................................... 19
           2.3.2     Determine Which Emergency Facilities to Use ................................................... 19
           2.3.3     Staff the Emergency Coordination enter (ECC) .................................................... 19

  3.0 CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS…………………………………………………………………………21
    3.1 Normal Operations ..................................................................................... 21
    3.2 Declaring a Local State of Emergency ...................................................................... 21
    3.3 Coordinate with Towe, City Municipality Partners ........................................ 23
    3.4 Preparedness .............................................................................................. 25
    3.5 Develop Plans for Future Emergencies.......................................................... 25
          3.5.1 Update Plans Regularly ...................................................................... 26
    3.6 MSD Emergency Coordination Center Activation .......................................... 26
          3.6.1 Requesting Mutual Aid ....................................................................... 27
          3.6.2 Salt Lake County Emergency Coordination Center Activation................ 27
           3.6.3 Emergency Support Functions ............................................................................... 28
           3.6.4 Decision Making in the Salt Lake County ECC ......................................................... 28
           3.6.5 Salt Lake County ECC Activation Plan ..................................................................... 28

11 | P a g e
           3.6.6 After Action and Corrective Action Plans................................................................ 30

  4.0 ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITY……………………………………………………31
    4.1 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District...................................................................... 32
    4.2 County Departments and Agencies .................................................................................. 32
    4.3 State Agencies ................................................................................................................ 33
    4.4 Federal Agencies ............................................................................................................. 34
    4.5 Non-governmental Organizations .................................................................................... 34
    4.6 Functional Responsibilities .............................................................................................. 36
 5.0 DIRECTION, CONTROL AND COORDINATION ........................................ 38
    5.1 Perform Damage Assessment .......................................................................................... 39
    5.2 Rapid Damage Assessment .............................................................................................. 39
    5.3 Preliminary Damage Assessment ..................................................................................... 39
    5.4 Response Procedures ...................................................................................................... 40
    5.5 Response & Recovery ...................................................................................................... 41
    5.6 Continuity of Operations ................................................................................................. 41
 6.0 COMMUNICATIONS .......................................................................... 41
 7.0 ADMINISTRATION, FINANCE, AND LOGISTICS....................................... 42
    7.1 Administration Information ............................................................................................. 42
    7.2 Records, Preservation and Restoration............................................................................. 42
    7.3 Reports and Records........................................................................................................ 42
    7.4 Financial Management .................................................................................................... 43
    7.5 Accounting ...................................................................................................................... 43
    7.6 Fiscal Agreements ........................................................................................................... 43
    7.7 Logistics .......................................................................................................................... 44
  8.0 PLAN MAINTENANCE AND DISTRIBUTION .......................................... 45
    8.1 Emergency Operations Plan Maintenance ........................................................................ 46
  9.0 AUTHORITY AND REFERENCES .......................................................... 47
    9.1 Authorities ...................................................................................................................... 47
           9.2 Supporting Documents/Plans ................................................................................... 47
  10.0 GLOSSARY & LIST OF EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS ................... 49
  11.0 ACRONYMS................................................................................... 55
  12.0 ANNEXES ...................................................................................... 57
12 | P a g e
1.0 BASE PLAN INTRODUCTION
 The Salt Lake Greater Municipal Service District Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
 (MSD CEMP) establishes the framework through which the MSD, Towns of Brighton and
 Copperton, Magna City, White City, the City of Kearns and Emigration Canyon will respond to,
 recover from, prepare for, and mitigate against all hazards that are threats to them. It
 describes the comprehensive integration and coordination of all levels of municipal, County,
 State, and federal government, volunteer organizations, non-profit agencies, and the private
 sector.

 1.1 Purpose
 The base plan provides a comprehensive overview of scalable command and control structures
 and operational procedures across all levels of government to respond to, recover from,
 prepare for, and mitigate against all hazards. The MSD CEMP for the Town of Brighton and
 Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Magna City, White City, and the City of Kearns, establishes a
 framework for an effective system of comprehensive emergency operations and management
 for the purpose of:

     •    Reducing the loss of life, injury, property damage and loss from natural or man-made
          emergencies.
     •    Preparing for prompt and efficient response activities to protect lives and property
          impacted by emergencies.
     •    Responding to emergencies with the effective use of all relevant plans and appropriate
          resources.
     •    Providing for the rapid and orderly implementation of recovery operations.
     •    Assisting in awareness, education, prevention, and mitigation of emergencies.


 1.2 Scope
 The MSD CEMP includes several incident-specific annexes that describe the concept of
 operations to address specific hazard situations that contain technical information, details, and
 methods for use in emergency operations for agencies located within the communities served
 by the MSD.

 The MSD CEMP addresses the various levels of emergencies or disasters likely to occur and, in
 accordance with the magnitude of an event, the corresponding short- and long-term response
 actions that state organizations will take in coordination with the MSD ECC, SLCo Emergency
 Management Division, Utah DEM, and the surrounding local jurisdictions.



13 | P a g e
 1.3 Hazard Overview
 The Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan identifies the hazards that pose a risk to the
 communities served by the MSD and details their potential impacts. Each community's specific
 hazard mitigation plan is included in the jurisdiction-specific sections of the Salt Lake County
 Hazard Mitigation Plan. Many communities have chosen to adopt the MSD-wide plan. These
 hazards are identified in the Salt Lake County THIRA (Threat and Hazard Identification and Risk
 Assessment).

 Figure 1 provides an overview of those hazards.

                          Figure 1: County Hazard Overview




                             Figure 2: Types of Vulnerability




14 | P a g e
   2.0 ASSUMPTIONS
        The emergency command and control structure in the communities served by the
         MSD are based on a bottom-up approach to response and recovery resource
         allocation. Each level of government must exhaust its resources prior to elevation to
         the next level. Homeland security statutes and regulations may govern certain
         response activities. The recovery of losses and reimbursements of costs from federal
         resources will require preparation and compliance with specific and defined
         processes.
        Many homes, businesses, and industries may be damaged or destroyed. The
         structural integrity of many public buildings, bridges, roadways, and facilities may be
         compromised. Water and utility infrastructure can be severely affected, and
         emergency response efforts will be hampered due to transportation problems, lack
         of electrical power, debris, and damaged, destroyed or inaccessible structures.
        The responsibilities and functions outlined in this MSD CEMP will be fulfilled only if
         the situation, information exchange, extent of actual agency capabilities and
         resources are available at the time of the emergency or disaster.
        There will likely be direct physical and economic damage to critical infrastructure.
         This damage will diminish emergency response capabilities due to inaccessible
         locales, will cause inconvenience or overwhelming distress due to temporary or
         protracted service interruptions and will result in long-term economic losses due to
         the economic and physical limitations of recovery operations.
        The Mayor or Emergency Manager for the town or city, or their designated
         representative(s) from the communities served by the MSD, at the time of the
         emergency, will coordinate activities in their jurisdiction with the MSD ECC. The MSD
         ECC will then maintain communication with the ESF 5 – Emergency Management
         desk with the Salt Lake Co ECC.
        A few of the significant factors that will affect casualties and damage include time of
         occurrence, severity of impact, weather conditions, population density, building
         construction, and secondary events (for example, fires, explosions, structural
         collapse, contamination issues, loss of critical infrastructure, floods, etc.).
        Disaster relief from departments and agencies outside the communities served by
         the MSD may take five days or more to arrive.
        The communities served by the MSD will respond according to their Emergency
         Response Guidelines.

        The MSD CEMP describes basic strategies that will outline the mobilization of
         resources and emergency operation activities that support local emergency
         management efforts. The MSD CEMP addresses the following five mission areas of
         the National Preparedness Goal for Homeland Security:




15 | P a g e
 The following planning assumptions of the five mission areas of the National Preparedness Goal
 for Homeland Security are in Table 1 were considered in the development and execution of the
 base plan.


                                      Table 1: Base Plan Assumptions



                    ●   Municipal, County, State, and federal response organizations adopt NIMS as the
                        integrated system to respond to and recover from incidents.
                    ●   Emergency management coordination and resource allocation starts at the
   Coordination         municipal level and extends to County, State, and federal resources as availability
   Structures           and capabilities are exhausted.
                    ●   The MSD Emergency Coordination Center (ECC) is staffed with representatives from
                        the MSD under the [ESF/ISM] structure during response and the Recovery Support
                        Function (RSF) structure during recovery.
                    ●   Some activation notifications and communications depend on availability of
                        communications and energy infrastructure.
   Activation
                    ●   Damaged infrastructure impacts the speed at which municipal, special service
                        district, County, State, and federal agencies can activate and deploy resources.
                    ●   The MSD ECC makes every reasonable effort to respond in the event of an
                        emergency or disaster.
                    ●   Time of occurrence, severity of impact, weather conditions, population density,
                        building construction, and cascading events are significant factors that affect
                        casualties and damage.
   Response         ●   Emergency response capabilities are diminished due to damaged infrastructure and
                        equipment or inaccessible locales.
                    ●   Damages to infrastructure are likely to manifest in direct physical and economic
                        damages to facilities and systems.
                    ●   Disaster relief from agencies outside the Cities or Towns serviced by the MSD may
                        take 120 hours or more to arrive.
                    ●   Recovery of losses or reimbursements of costs from federal assistance requires
                        preparation and compliance with federal statutes and regulations.
   Recovery
                    ●   The economic and physical limitations of recovery operations may result in
                        temporary or protracted interruptions to services.
                    ●   Effective preparedness requires ongoing public community awareness and
                        education programs so that citizens are prepared and understand their
                        responsibilities should a major disaster or emergency occur.
                    ●   Residents living within Cities and Towns serviced by the MSD are expected to
   Preparedness         maintain essential supplies to be self-sufficient for a minimum of 120 hours and
   and Mitigation       up to two weeks following the initial impacts of an emergency or disaster.
                        Effective mitigation may prevent certain hazards or incidents from occurring. For
                        hazards or incidents that cannot be prevented, effective mitigation may reduce
                        their impacts.


16 | P a g e
 2.1 Activation
   2.1.1 Involve the Community in Emergency Management
 Effective community preparedness requires ongoing community awareness and education
 programs so citizens are prepared and understand their responsibilities should a major disaster
 or emergency occur.

  2.1.2 Improve Public Safety through Education and Outreach
 The Emergency Managers of the city and towns serviced by the MSD, working with the
 Communications Manager/PIO of the MSD will coordinate with other municipal communications
 officers, and be responsible for developing and disseminating preparedness public messaging
 campaigns. Examples of these campaigns include:

     ●    Signing up for public alert applications
     ●    Developing a personal preparedness plan
     ●    Informing the community on safety information about flood zones and evacuation
          routes

 2.2 Activation Phase


                   Convene Policy         Determine if       Determine Which
   Assess the                                                                    Staff the
                   Group and Senior       CEMPT Activation   Emergency
   Emergency                                                                     ECC/EOC
                   Leadership             is Required        Facilities to Use



 Key Activities
     ●    The MSD Duty Officer is contacted by the Chief Elected Official or their designated
          representative (Emergency Manager) from the affected municipality and assess the
          potential or actual emergency and determine whether the MSD Policy Group needs to
          be contacted. If the incident warrants the contact of the MSD Policy Group, the Duty
          Officer will contact them. (See MSD ECC Activation Plan in Annex H of this plan).
     ●    The MSD Duty Officer and MSD Policy Group of the municipality affected will determine
          if the MSD ECC should be used to support response.
     ●    The MSD Manager determines the extent of the MSD ECC activation, and which
          organizational structures and staff need to be mobilized to support activated facilities.
     ●    EM notifies personnel they have been activated to support response.




17 | P a g e
  2.2.1 Assess the Emergency
  Municipal first responders are often the first agency to identify an imminent or potential emergency or
  disaster. Responding agencies on-scene utilize coordination structures defined in NIMS to respond to
  and assess the scope or potential impacts of the incident. Considerations when assessing the scope or
  potential impacts include:
     ● Potential for loss of life or injury
     ● Potential damage to property, roads, electricity, water, and other infrastructure
     ● Amount of time before incident impact
     ● Potential economic disruption

 When the Chief Elected Official or Emergency Manager (EM) are advised of the incident by the first
 responders or the community, they shall contact the MSD Duty Officer at the 24-hour contact number.
 (See MSD ECC Activation Response Plan in Annex B). The Chief Elected Official or EM shall conference
 with the MSD Duty Officer to determine to declare an emergency. The Duty Officer will advise the Chief
 Elected Official or EM that they will advise the MSD Leadership (General Manager and/or Associate
 Manager) of the incident and the possible emergency declaration. The MSD Leadership will determine
 if the MSD Policy Group needs to convene. If the Policy Group does not need to convene, the MSD
 Leadership will contact the Chief Elected Official or EM and advise them of their action. If the MSD
 Leadership chooses to convene the MSD Policy Group, see MSD ECC Activation and Response Plan
 in Annex H.

   2.3 Determine Whether Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
       Activation is Required
 Upon identification or warning of an incident, the following members of the MSD Policy Group will work
 collectively to activate the CEMP.
     ●    Emergency Manager or designee
     ●    MSD [Administrator/General Manager] or designee
     ●    Local City/town Mayor

 The MSD Policy Group will consider the initial assessment from first responders to determine if the
 MSD CEMP and MSD ECC should be activated. Once the CEMP has been activated, relevant municipal
 and county agencies and partners are notified to implement the subsequent sections of this plan.

 Warn the Community About Imminent Threats
 If an emergency or disaster poses an immediate risk to the community, first responder agencies, in
 coordination with local Public Information Officers (PIO’s) and EM’s provide alert and warnings to the
 community and implement protective actions as rapidly as possible. If needed, local jurisdictions
 should coordinate with MSD and SLCo EM PIO for iPAWS messaging.




18 | P a g e
 Effective and timely life and property saving operations often depend on prompt identification and
 activation of resources during a disaster or emergency. This section provides an overview of
 operations that occur after identifying an occurring or imminent emergency disaster

  2.3.1 Convene Policy Group and Senior Leadership
 Responding agencies use established communications channels to notify senior decision makers, such
 as the local Emergency Manager/Mayor or UFA liaison Officer, the MSD On call Officer, of imminent or
 occurring emergencies or disasters. These channels include:

        ●    Emergency dispatch
        ●    Field observation
        ●    ECC Planning and Intelligence Section
        ●    Alerts from neighboring jurisdictions


  2.3.2 Determine Which Emergency Facilities to Use

  Decide Which Facilities are Necessary to Support Response
  Following the activation of the CEMP, the MSD Emergency Manager coordinates with the local cities
  and/or towns, Salt Lake County Emergency Management, first responding agencies, and other
  City/County leadership. Together, they determine which emergency management facilities to activate.

  2.3.3            Staff the Emergency Coordination enter (ECC)
  When an event requires ECC activation, the MSD General Manager or designee will determine which
  ECC sections, branches, positions, and [ESF/ISM] are activated or deactivated depending on the
  emergency or disaster's scope and size.

  The ECC uses an ICS/Hybrid structure to respond to incidents and is organized by:


    ●       Sections that group the operations of the four core functions of the ECC (See table)

    ●       Branches that organize section-specific operations and may have a combination of [ESF/ISM] and ECC
            positions.

    ●       [ESF/ISM] that are groupings of similar organizations and agencies to support section and branch-
            specific operations.

    ●       ECC positions that provide specific support for ECC sections and overall ECC operations, such as safety,
            communications support, and documentation.




19 | P a g e
      Figure 4 provides an overview of the ECC structure, including sections, branches, and positions.




                                                                                                                   The
2019 Utah Hazard Mitigation Plan and the 2019 Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan served as the guidelines for
mitigation operations in the State of Utah in general, SLCo, and the communities served by the MSD, specifically.
These plans help to promote sound public policy designed to protect citizens, critical facilities, infrastructure,
private property, and the environment.




      20 | P a g e
  3.CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS
                                          The communities served by the MSD use a bottom-up
                                          approach in all phases of emergency management, with
                                          emergency activities being resolved at the lowest
                                          possible level of response. The resources of local
                                          response agencies, county, state, and federal agencies
                                          are to be used in this sequential order to ensure a rapid
                                          and efficient response.




 3.1 Normal Operations
   In the absence of a declared disaster or state of emergency, the emergency response forces
   (EMS, fire, law enforcement, and public works) will respond to emergencies within the
   communities served by the MSD. Mutual aid and shared response jurisdictions are addressed
   through local agreements and do not require a local declaration of emergency to enable them.
   The Chief Elected Executive(s) or their designee(s) from the City or Town affected by the
   emergency may request operational assistance from the MSD ECC, if the event exceeds the
   City or Town capabilities.



 3.2 Declaring a Local State of Emergency
 The very nature of disasters — their unique circumstances, the unexpected timing, and varied
 impacts — precludes a complete listing of factors considered when evaluating disaster
 declaration requests. All disasters start and end at the local level; however, the primary factors
 considered include the following:
                Amount and type of damage (number of homes destroyed or homes with
                 major damage)
                  Impact on the infrastructure of affected areas or critical facilities
                  Imminent threats to public health and safety
                  Impact on essential government services and functions
                  Dispersion or concentration of damage
                  Level of insurance coverage in place for homeowners and public facilities
                  Assistance available from other sources (federal, state, local, voluntary
                   organizations)

21 | P a g e
                  State and local resource commitments from previous, undeclared events
                  Frequency of disaster events over a recent time period
                  When conditions warrant, the Chief Elected Executive of the city or town, or
                   their designee(s), will request a Declaration of Emergency (Each City or
                   Town Mayor has the authority to declare an emergency within their
                   Jurisdiction and are defined as a “municipality” by U.C.A. § 10-1-104(5)(c).
                   The “chief executive officer” of a city or a town is defined as the “mayor” by
                   U.C.A. § 53-2a-203(1)(a)(i) because they are a “form of municipal
                   government.” Finally, each mayor has the powers outlined in U.C.A. §
                   53-2a-205 when a “state of emergency or local emergency has been
                   declared.”)
                  A local emergency declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
                   period in excess of 30 days except by or with the consent of the affected
                   City or Town Council. Utah Code § 53-2a-208 (1) (b)
                  Damage assessment updates from affected areas should follow at regular
                   intervals from the Chief Elected Executive or their designee, from the Cities
                   or Towns, with assistance from the MSD. Crisis Track is the current platform
                   for completing damage assessments.

 The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (referred to as the
 Stafford Act - 42 U.S.C. 5721 et seq.) authorizes the President to issue major disaster or
 emergency declarations before or after catastrophes occur. Emergency declarations trigger aid
 that protects property, public health and safety, and lessens or averts the threat of an incident
 becoming a catastrophic event.

 Effective and timely life and property saving operations often depend on prompt identification
 and activation of resources during a disaster or emergency. This section provides an overview of
 operations that occur after identifying an occurring or imminent emergency or disaster incident




22 | P a g e
 3.3 Coordinate with City and Town Municipality Partners
 To effectively implement activation, response, recovery, and preparedness actions,
 the MSD and its ECC coordinates with County, State, federal, and private sector
 partners. This section provides an overview of how these entities coordinate.

 As an incident evolves, expands, or affects certain sectors, various agencies may
 become involved to support response and recovery operations. Figure 7 provides a
 general overview of how different agencies and entities are involved as an incident
 becomes more complex.

                              Incident Complexity




23 | P a g e
 The table below describes the major responsibilities related to coordination during
 emergency and disaster response and recovery operations.

                        Coordination Roles and Responsibilities

                           ●   Respond to incident based on available resources and capabilities
                           ●   Notify municipal emergency management and other supporting agencies of
                               operations, initial assessment, and need for further support (if required)
      Municipalities       ●   Activate relevant municipal EOC to provide timely, accurate, and regular
                               assessments and coordination support
                           ●   Declare a local emergency if warranted
                           ●   Activate MSD ECC
                           ●   Activate ECC to support response and recovery coordination.
                           ●   Notify DEM of incident and request support as needed.
                           ●   Create County disaster declaration as needed.
                           ●   Coordinate with Utah DEM to request federal assistance as needed.
          County           ●   Coordinate requests from municipalities and County departments,
                               organizations, and agencies for resources to support response and recovery.
                           ●   Regularly assess and document incident impacts and status.
                           ●   Develop timely and accurate messaging to the community regarding incident
                               status and protective actions.
                           ●   Provide DEM liaison to support communication and coordinate between the
                               Salt Lake County ECC and DEM.
                           ●   Coordinate support from State of Utah agencies, other counties, and inter-
       State of Utah           State mutual aid through EMAC.
                           ●   Support [Town/City/Municipality/County] and State disaster declaration as
                               needed.
                           ●   Coordinate federal assistance.
                           ●   Provide response support and resources if State of Utah capabilities are
                               insufficient to respond and recover from the incident.
   Federal Government
                           ●   Provide federal assistance to help the [Municipality] recover from emergency
                               or disaster impacts.
                           ●   Incorporate response and recovery resources and support to municipal and
                               County governments through requests, agreements, and memorandums of
      Private Sector           understanding (MOU).
                           ●   Provide situational assessment and ensure situational awareness of disaster
                               or emergency, if applicable.




24 | P a g e
 3.4 Preparedness
 This section provides an overview of preparedness actions executed by the
 communities serviced by the MSD and the MSD partnering agencies to prepare for
 the impacts of all hazards. Preparedness actions occur prior to and after emergencies
 and disasters and include planning, training, and exercises.

 Preparedness Phase Overview




 Key Activities
     ●    All agencies develop internal plans to support emergency or disaster preparedness.
     ●    Local communities and MSD EMs coordinates hazard mitigation planning and
          identification of mitigation projects to lessen the impacts of emergencies and
          disasters.
     ●    Local communities and MSD EMs plans for, executes training, and exercises for
          different partner entities within the Municipality.
     ●    The local communities EM, working with the MSD Leadership and MSD PIO implement
          outreach strategies to inform, educate, and engage the community on emergency
          preparedness.


 3.5 Develop Plans for Future Emergencies
 Maintain Plans that Support Response and Recovery
 The cities and towns serviced by the MSD will maintain operational plans and
 documents described in the table below to better facilitate disaster and emergency
 response.




25 | P a g e
                           Planning Documentation Overview




   Comprehensive           Establishes the framework for the Cities and towns serviced by the MSD to
   Emergency               respond to, recover from, prepare for, and mitigate against all hazards that
   Management Plan         pose a threat to them


 3.5.1 Update Plans Regularly
 Emergency Managers of the cities and towns serviced by the MSD have the overall
 responsibility for ensuring their plans, annexes, operation guides, and associated
 checklists are current. The city or town Emergency Manager or designee assigns
 personnel to be accountable for the upkeep of specific planning documentation.


 3.6 MSD Emergency Coordination Center Activation
 This MSD CEMP and the MSD ECC may be activated when the Chief Elected Executive,
 or their designee(s) from a city or town, have declared a local emergency, or when
 an emergency is considered imminent or probable, and the implementation of this MSD
 CEMP and the MSD ECC is considered a prudent, proactive response. (See MSD ECC
 Activation and Response Plan).

         An event may start out small, escalate quickly, or may occur at any time of day
         or night. The following are steps leading to a disaster declaration:

                  As soon as an incident occurs, the Chief Elected Executive(s), or
                   their designee(s) of the Cities or Towns affected will monitor
                   the situation and advise the MSD Duty Officer (DO).
                  The Cities or Towns will initially respond to the emergency
                   using their Emergency Response Guidelines.
                  The MSD DO will then contact the MSD General Manager (GM) and
                   Associate General Manager (AGM) to advise them of the incident.
                   (See MSD ECC Activation and Response Procedures).
                  The communities served by the MSD will use their own or
                   contracted resources first in dealing with an emergency.
                  In an emergency or disaster situation, when those resources are
                   overwhelmed or threatened to be overwhelmed, the Chief Elected
                   Executive(s) or their designee of the Cities or Towns affected, will
                   notify the MSD ECC Duty Officer, and advise them of the incident.
                   (See MSD ECC Activation and Response Plan).
                  The GM, AGM, or the Director of Planning or designee of the MSD, working

26 | P a g e
                    with the Chief Elected Executive or their designee of the affected City or
                    Town, will determine whether or not to activate the MSD ECC. (See MSD
                    ECC Activation and Response Procedures).
                   Once activated, the MSD ECC will serve as the representative for the City or
                    Town to the Salt Lake County ECC. (See MSD ECC Activation and Response
                    Procedures).
                   If the incident is beyond the MSC ECC capabilities, the MSD ECC Commend
                    will, using the most functional and available method of communication,
                    notify the SLCo Emergency Manager, or the 24-hour SLCo Emergency Watch
                    Desk (Duty Officer), of the incident and request assistance. (See MSD ECC
                    Activation and Response Procedures). When required, the communities
                    served by the MSD, will declare a local state of emergency and assist
                    emergency response coordination and operations from the MSD
                    ECC.


         3.6.1 Requesting Mutual Aid
         To expedite the resource sharing process, the MSD has entered into mutual aid
         agreements with neighboring jurisdictions and assisting agencies to access
         additional resources should they be available. Such mutual aid agreements are
         pre-established (preferred) or created at the onset of response operations. Pre-
         establishing mutual aid agreements prior to response operations is preferred as
         the agreements can be rapidly utilized during response. The MSD has already
         established contracts and mutual aid agreements.

         Mutual aid agreements often include:

               ●   Identification of the resources accessed
               ●   Reasonable assurance that resources are available when needed
               ●   Terms for compensation

         3.6.2 Salt Lake County Emergency Coordination Center Activation
          The SLCo ECC will serve as the command center for all disaster response
          operations in Salt Lake County. The ECC is located at 3380 South 900 West,
          Salt Lake City, Utah. If a disaster or emergency prevents the use of this
          primary facility, SLCo will determine the alternate ECC.




27 | P a g e
          ECC Activation Levels of Operation

         1.    The Salt Lake County ECC activation is divided into three levels
               of readiness, to establish emergency operations.

         2.    SLCo Emergency Management staff are always on-call to
               monitor and follow up on situations, threats, or events within
               the communities served by the MSD.
                  The severity of the event will directly affect the level of activation by
                  the SLCo ECC. The SLCo Emergency Manager, will help decide to
                  increase or decrease levels of activation. When the SLCo ECC is
                  activated, a centralized response and recovery will be established,
                  with operational plans and activities focused on efficiency, quality,
                  and quantity of resources.

                  The three levels of activation coordinate with the SLCo, Utah DEM,
                  and federal plan activation levels:

                         Level I: Full-scale activation (Red)
                         Level II: Limited activation (Yellow)
                         Level III: Monitoring activation (Green)

         3.    Level I – Full-Scale Activation
                  Level I is the complete mobilization and operation of the SLCo ECC
                  with full staffing, as available. The SLCo ECC may operate on a
                  24-hour schedule due to the severity of the event. The MSD ECC
                  will coordinate with the SLCO ECC.

         4.    Level II - Limited Activation
                  Level II is limited county activation, where only those Emergency
                  Services Functions (ESFs) which are necessary to support the
                  response to the emergency are activated. The SLCo Emergency
                  Manager will notify coordinators of ESFs that they are activated and
                  to report to the ECC. All other ESFs will be alerted and put on-
                  standby. The SLCo Emergency Manager may request a liaison from
                  the MSD to represent the Cities and Towns affected by the
                  emergency. These emergencies require limited staff to direct and
                  support the needed ECC operations.




28 | P a g e
         5.     Level III – Monitoring Activation
                    Level III is a preparatory step taken upon the receipt of a warning for
                    a potential disaster or emergency condition. The SLCo Emergency
                    Manager will apprise the MSD of the event. The SLCo Emergency
                    Manager will evaluate the situation and, if conditions warrant, alert
                    and advise the appropriate individuals and agencies of the situation
                    and instruct them to take appropriate action as part of their
                    everyday responsibilities. The SLCo ECC may be activated with only
                    administrative staff. They will assess the situation and may escalate
                    the activation is needed. This level typically involves observation,
                    verification of appropriate action, and follow-up. Notifications may
                    be made that will potentially affect departments and other agencies
                    or jurisdictions. The ECC may be set up and prepared for operations.
                    Communications equipment will be tested and made operational.
                    The day-to-day operations are typically not altered, and the
                    management structure stays the same.


         3.6.3 Emergency Support Functions
         The SLCo ECC uses the ICS structure, which provides the ECC staff with a
         standardized operational structure and common terminology. The ECC is
         organized into 15 ESFs which are composed of local departments, agencies, and
         voluntary organizations that are grouped together to provide needed
         assistance.


         3.6.4 Decision Making in the Salt Lake County ECC
         Activation of the ECC is to develop and maintain awareness of the entire
         situation for decision makers and to coordinate support for emergency
         responders. A common operating picture is critical because it provides the
         basis for making decisions and facilitates the release of emergency public
         information. Situational awareness is also vital to the effective coordination of
         support for responders in the field.


         3.6.5 Salt Lake County ECC Action Planning
         ECC Incident Action Plans (IAP) provide designated ECC personnel with
         knowledge of the objectives to be achieved and the steps required for their
         achievement. ECC IAPs also provide a basis for measuring the achievement of
         objectives and overall system performance.



29 | P a g e
         Action planning is an important management tool that involves the following:

                  Identification of emergency response priorities and objectives
                   based on situational awareness
                  Documentation of established priorities and objectives and the
                   associated tasks and personnel assignments
         The Planning Section is responsible for developing the ECC incident action plan
         and facilitating action-planning meetings. ECC action plans are developed for a
         specified operational period, which may range from a few hours to 24 hours.
         The operational period is determined by establishing an initial set of priority
         actions. A reasonable timeframe is then determined for the accomplishment of
         those actions.

         It is imperative that the liaison from the MSD be a part of the Planning process
         and the Policy Group.


         3.6.6 After Action and Corrective Action Plans
        As immediate threats to life and property subside and the need for sustained
        ESF operations diminishes, responsible individuals will be debriefed, and
        lessons learned will be documented. The General Manager or Associate
        General Manager of the MSD working with their liaison to the County ECC, will
        prepare a written After-Action Report (AAR) of their activities, which will be
        submitted to the General Manager of the MSD for review. A copy of this AAR is
        included in the Forms Annex at the end of this document. The AAR will then be
        submitted to the SLCo Emergency Manager for review. Matters requiring
        corrective action will be written up in a Corrective Action Plan (CAP). It will be
        forwarded to the Chief Elected Executive(s) of the Cities and Town affected by
        the emergency to be addressed as needed. Copies of the ICS 214 Log, After
        Action Form, and Corrective Action Plan are in the annexes section of this
        document.




30 | P a g e
 4.0 ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 Representatives from the communities served by the MSD may have various roles and
 responsibilities throughout the duration of an emergency. Therefore, it is important
 the MSD General Manager, or their designee(s), the cities and Town(s) Chief Elected
 Executive(s), or his/her designee(s), understand and be trained in the command
 structure established to support response and recovery efforts. Typical duties and
 roles may also vary depending on the severity of impact, size of the incident, and
 availability of local resources.

 It is also important that the Chief Elected Executive(s) from the City or Town,
 or their designee(s), and MSD personnel, are identified and receive training in their
 responsibilities to support existing response plans, procedures and policies.

 The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the City and Town(s), or their designee(s),
 and the GM and AGM of the MSD, and any MSD personnel, should be able to:


                  Maintain current internal personnel notification rosters and
                   standard operating procedures to perform assigned tasks
                   (notifications, staffing, etc.).
                  Provide the MSD ECC and the SLCo Emergency Manager with
                   current contact information and email addresses.
                  Identify potential sources of additional personnel, equipment,
                   and supplies.
                  Provide for continuity of operations by taking action to accomplish
                   the following:
                  Ensure orders of succession for key management positions
                   are established to ensure continuous leadership and
                   authority for emergency actions and decisions in emergency
                   conditions.
                  Protect records, facilities, and organizational equipment
                   deemed essential for sustaining government functions and
                   conducting emergency operations.
                  If practical, ensure that alternate operating locations are available if
                   the primary location suffers damage, becomes inaccessible, or
                   requires evacuation.
                  Be trained and understand their Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)
                  Refer to their City or Town Emergency Response Guidelines or Plan
31 | P a g e
    4.1 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
    The following are the MSD divisions that may be requested with support
    responsibilities as detailed by the CEMP or requested by MSD ECC and/or SLCo
    Emergency Management Division.


                        Planning and Zoning
                        Animal Control
                        Business Licenses
                        Code Enforcement
                        Public Works Operations and Engineering
                        Parks
                        Staff Administration and support ECC for its members

    The MSD provides these services to its member entities directly or via contract with other
    agencies, such as Parks Maintenance and Public Works Operations. The MSD should advise
    SLCo Emergency Management of any contracted services to provide support.

    4.2 County Departments and Agencies

               Salt Lake County Emergency Management
                        Maintain ESF 5 (Emergency Management) - Computer-driven
                         information management programs and ensure the training of
                         personnel on their operation and utilization.
                        Provide disaster management-related information using ESF 5’s
                         information management and response planning computer programs.
                        Provide this information to the Chief Elected Executive(s) of the
                         communities served by the MSD, to the SLCo ECC and others as
                         determined by the SLCo Emergency Manager.
                        Maintain incident logs, mission-tracking logs, mutual aid request logs,
                         and document all SLCo ECC briefings and meetings, plus other
                         information tracking procedures.
                        Develop division procedures that increase capabilities to respond to,
                         and recover from, emergencies and disasters to local jurisdictions.
                        Coordinate, supervise and manage the procurement, distribution, and
                         conservation of supplies and resources available for use by SLCo
                         government in supporting recover.
32 | P a g e
               Salt Lake County Health Department
                       Provide subject matter expertise, consultation, and technical
                        assistance to ESF 8 (Public Health and Medical Services) for its
                        partners on disaster human services issues.
                       Provide medical staff and support to augment health services
                        personnel as appropriate.
                       Provide medical care and mental health services for affected
                        populations either within or outside shelter locations in accordance
                        with appropriate guidelines.
                       Provide technical assistance for shelter operations related to food,
                        vectors, water supply, and wastewater disposal.
                       Assist in the provision of medical supplies and services, including
                        durable medical equipment.
                       Coordinate overall needs assessment and monitors potential health
                        hazards.
                       Identify critical personnel and responsibilities, emergency chain of
                        command, appropriate emergency notification procedures, and
                        alternate work locations.
                       Endeavor to provide accurate and timely emergency public
                        information.

               Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC)
                       Operate as a 24-hour/7-day a week, 911 police, fire, and emergency
                        medical services dispatch center.
                       Provide after-hours notification for the emergency management staff,
                        responders and the media if there is threat to life, property, or safety
                        of the responders.


     4.3 State Agencies

               Utah Division of Emergency Management
                        Coordinate the State of Utah’s response to disasters.
                        Support local emergency management efforts when local resources
                         are unable to cope with the situation and when a particular capability
                         or resource is required but unavailable.
                        Contact other states or the federal government for assistance if the
                         state is unable to fulfill the request.




33 | P a g e
               Utah National Guard
                        Supports statewide emergency management efforts when local
                         resources are unable to cope with the situation and when a capability
                         or resource is required but unavailable.
                        Contact other State National Guard Agencies or the federal
                         government for assistance if the state is unable to fulfill the request.


               Utah Department of Transportation
                        Supports statewide emergency management efforts for all state
                         roadways and highways within Utah.


       4.4 Federal Agencies

               Federal Emergency Management Agency
                        Coordinates the federal government’s role in preparing for,
                         preventing, mitigating the effects of, responding to, and recovering,
                         from all domestic disasters, whether natural or human-caused,
                         including acts of terror.

               Department of Defense
                        Coordinates federal military forces responding to, and recovering
                         from, all domestic disasters, whether natural or human-caused,
                         including acts of terrorism.

               National Weather Service
                        Issues severe weather watches and warnings.

       4.5 Non-governmental Organizations
         The role of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in disasters is to fill the gaps
         that governmental agencies cannot perform. Disaster response and recovery
         require a coordinated effort between various public, private and NGOs in order
         to be effective. Planning must involve everyone from these multiple sectors in
         order to ensure a coordinated response and recovery effort.

               American Red Cross
                        Provide staff to work in support of mass care and sheltering activities.
                        Provide subject-matter expertise on regulations, policy, and all
                         relevant ARC issues, including general mass care planning,
                         preparedness, and response and recovery activities as ARC-specific
                         activities in these areas.
                        Provide information on current ARC mass care activities as required.
                        Support reunification efforts through its Safe and Well web site and

34 | P a g e
                       in coordination with government entities as appropriate. (link here)
                      Provide public health and safety and lessen or avert the threat of an
                       incident becoming a catastrophic event.
                      Provide staff and support as part of an integrated case management
                       system.

               Faith-Based Organizations
                      Provide staff to work in support of mass care and sheltering activities.
                      Provide facilities for sheltering, mass care, and feeding.
                      Provide areas for Points of Distribution (POD).
                      This section outlines general roles and responsibilities for Municipal,
                       County, State, and Federal entities related to response, recovery,
                       preparedness, and mitigation operations.




35 | P a g e
             4.6 Functional Responsibilities
             This table provides an overview of emergency response functions and the
             primary (P) and secondary (S) entities that are responsible for executing those
             functions.




                                                                                                                                                Mayors/Manager Office of Finance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         American Red Cross (ARC)
                                              Mayor/Manager Office



                                                                                         Information Services
                                                                     Health Department




                                                                                                                                                                                   Police Department




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Faith-Based NGOs
                          [Municipality] EM




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fire Department
                                                                                                                               Human Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Salvation Army




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Private Sector
                                                                                                                Public Works
               Function




   Administration
   and Finance
                                S                                                                                                                          P

   Agriculture and
   Natural Resources
                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                   P

   Alert and
   Notification
                                P                                                                                                                                                  S                        S
   Communications               S                                                               P                                                                                  S                        S
   Critical
   Infrastructure and
   Key Resource
                                                                                                                    P                                                                                                                                                                   S
   Restoration
   Damage
   Assessment
                                S                                                                                   P
   Debris
   Management
                                                                                                                    P                                                                                       S

   Detection And
   Monitoring
                                S                                                                                                                                                  P                        P

   Direction, Control,
   and Coordination
                                P             P                                                                                                                                    S                        S

   Donation
   Management
                                                                                                                                                           P                                                             S                          S                S                  S
   Emergency Public
   Information
                                P             S

   Energy and
   Utilities Services
                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                   P

   Evacuation and
   Shelter-in-Place
                                              S                                                                                                                                    P                        P

   Fatality
   Management and
   Mortuary Services

36 | P a g e
   Firefighting/Fire
   Protection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                             Mayors/Manager Office of Finance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          American Red Cross (ARC)
                                           Mayor/Manager Office



                                                                                      Information Services
                                                                  Health Department




                                                                                                                                                                                Police Department




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Faith-Based NGOs
                       [Municipality] EM




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fire Department
                                                                                                                            Human Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Salvation Army




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Private Sector
                                                                                                             Public Works
          Function




   Food, Water, and
   Commodities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
   Distribution

   Hazardous
   Materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
   Information
   Collection,
   Analysis, and                 P                                                                                                                                                 S
   Dissemination

   Law Enforcement                                                                                                                                                                P
   Mass Care and
   Sheltering
                                  S                                                                                                                                                                                          P                         P                 S

   Mutual Aid                    P            S
   Private Sector
   Coordination
                                 P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
   Public Health and
   Medical Services
                                                                            P

   Public Works and
   Engineering
                                                                                                                    P

   Resource
   Management and                P                                                                                                                                                                                    S
   Logistics
   Search and Rescue                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
   Transportation
   Systems and                                                                                                      P
   Resources

   Volunteer
   Management
                                  S                                                                                                                                                                                          P                         P
   Warning                       P                                                                                                                                                 S                                  S




37 | P a g e
5.0 DIRECTION, CONTROL AND COORDINATION
         In the event of an emergency or disaster, the communities served by the MSD
         depend on SLCo's emergency response agencies, including EMS, fire, law
         enforcement, and public works.

         The senior leadership of the Cities or Towns will focus on information gathering
         and situational awareness needed to make informed decisions. The Chief Elected
         Executive or EM will contact the MSD Duty Officer and advise them of the incident
         and situation. After the extent of the emergency is determined, the MSD Duty
         Officer will contact the MSD General Manager or Associate General Manager to
         ascertain if the MSD ECC needs to be activated and/or contracts are overwhelmed,
         then an emergency may be declared. The MSD ECC is charged with coordinating
         efforts to represent the Cities and Towns during emergencies with the Salt Lake
         County Emergency Management Department. SLCo Emergency Management is
         the agency charged with coordinating local jurisdictions located within SLCo and
         the disaster response efforts.

         The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the Cities Towns, or their designee(s), and the
         General Manager of the MSD, or their designee(s), will help support response to
         major events, during the declared emergency, through the MSD ECC.

         The communities served by the MSD CEMP components will be coordinated as
         follows:

               1. This promulgated CEMP is effective immediately upon approval and
                  implementation.
               2. All communities served by the MSD are responsible for developing and
                  maintaining their own internal operating and notification procedures.
               3. All communities served by the MSD are responsible for filling any
                  important vacancies, recalling personnel from leave if appropriate, and
                  alerting those who are absent due to other duties or assignments,
                  identified in their Emergency Response Guidelines or Plan.
               4. Unless directed otherwise, existing City or Town communications systems
                  and frequencies will be employed.

               5. Unless directed otherwise, the release of information to the public or
                  media will be coordinated through the MSD Communication Officer
                  and/or SLCo Joint Information System (JIS) using the concepts outlined in
                  ESF 15 (External Affairs).

               6. The MSD ECC will identify a representative that will respond to the County
                  ECC as a liaison for the MSD. The Liaison to the County ECC will make prior
38 | P a g e
                arrangements to ensure that their families are provided for in the event of
                an emergency to ensure a prompt, worry-free response and subsequent
                duty.


          5.1 Perform Damage Assessments
          Municipal agencies conduct damage assessments during the response to
          identify incident impacts, prioritize response and restoration activities, and
          initiate the cost recovery process. The objectives of damage assessments
          include:
            ● Determining immediate life safety issues such as trapped or missing individuals
            ● Assessing economic impacts
            ● Identifying the scope of damages
            ● Determining the status of infrastructure
            ● Prioritizing response operations
            ● Documenting damages
            ● Affixing an estimated dollar amount to damage to justify the need for additional
                assistance

          New impacts, damages, or disruptions to infrastructure are incorporated into
          updated assessments and reported to relevant [ESFs/ISMs] and County, State,
          and federal supporting agencies.
       5.2 Rapid Damage Assessment
         A Rapid Damage Assessment (RDA) is an assessment that takes place within
         hours after an incident and focuses on lifesaving needs, imminent hazards and
         critical lifelines. This is also referred to as a ‘windshield assessment’ and will be
         gathered information using all means available. First responders, volunteers, or
         the Community Emergency Response Teams (CERT) can assist using the RDA
         Forms. Initial RDAs will focus on high- hazard areas (i.e., hospitals, schools,
         churches, etc.) and then residential structures.

         5.3 Preliminary Damage Assessment
         A preliminary damage assessment is conducted within the framework of a
         declaration process, identifies and affixes a dollar amount to government and
         commercial property, and percentage of damages to residential property. The
         preliminary damage assessment assists the SLCo Mayor and Council in
         determining resources available and additional needs that may be required.
         Damage assessments are to be conducted in the affected communities served
         by the MSD online program, which is then relayed to the ECC through the
         internet.
          A preliminary damage assessment team may be composed of personnel from
         FEMA, the state DEM, county and local officials, and the U.S. Small Business
         Administration (SBA). The team's work begins with reviewing the types of

39 | P a g e
         damage or emergency costs incurred by the units of government and the impact
         to critical facilities, such as public utilities, hospitals, schools, fire, and police
         departments. They will also look at the effect on individuals and businesses,
         including the amount of damage and the number of people displaced, as well as
         the threat to health and safety caused by the event. Additional data from the
         American Red Cross (ARC) or other local voluntary agencies may also be
         reviewed.

         During the assessment, the team will collect estimates of the expenses and
         damages and forward to the SLCo Emergency Manager. This information is
         used by the SLCo Mayor to support a declaration of a state of emergency or
         declaration at the county level. The Governor can also utilize this information
         to support a declaration of a state of emergency request that will outline the
         cost of response efforts, such as emergency personnel overtime, other
         emergency services shortfalls, community damage, citizenry affected and
         criteria to illustrate that the needed response efforts are beyond state and
         local recovery capabilities. The information gathered during the assessment
         will help the Governor certify that the damage exceeds state and local
         resources.

         Preliminary damage assessments also assist the Chief Elected Executive(s) of
         the communities served by the MSD, the opportunity to assess the damage in
         their City or Town. The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the Cities or Towns
         affected by an emergency, or their designee(s), working with the MSD ECC,
         will work with SLCo Emergency Management to assemble assessments in the
         ECC environment.


         5.4 Response Procedures
         If the MSD ECC is activated, a representative from the MSD ECC will contact the
         SLCo ECC within two hours. The SLCo Emergency Manager may also request a
         representative from the MSD as a liaison. Emergency response actions may be
         undertaken and coordinated, with or without activation of the MSD ECC or the
         City and Town activating their CEMP. This will depend on the severity of the
         impending or actual situation. Response priorities will focus on life safety;
         then basic survival issues (water, food, basic medical care, shelter); restoration
         of the City or Town vital infrastructures (water/waste systems, electrical grid,
         phones, roads); clean up and emergency repairs; and then recovery. The Joint
         Information Center (JIC) will organize notifications to the public, business
         community, and other parties of developments and activities via the local
         media.




40 | P a g e
         5.5 Response & Recovery
          The SLCo ECC, working with the MSD ECC will support a needs assessment
         soon after a disaster occurs. The needs assessment identifies the resources
         required to respond to and recover from the disaster. The assessment will form
         the basis for notification and resource requests from SLCo, State, and Federal
         assistance. The MSD ECC and the SLCo ECC will compile damage assessment
         information to determine the fiscal impact and dollar loss associated with a
         disaster. Damage assessment information is needed to secure a presidential
         disaster declaration; however, it is not always required before federal assistance
         is requested in a disaster.


         5.6 Continuity of Operations
         Continuity of Operations (COOP) is a function of emergency management and
         is vital during a community emergency or disaster situation. COOP is defined as
         the preservation and maintenance of the local civil government’s ability to carry
         out its constitutional responsibilities. All the communities served by the MSD
         shall have a Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP).



   6.0 COMMUNICATIONS
         Emergency communications are defined as the ability of emergency responders
         to exchange information via data, voice, and video. Emergency response at all
         levels of government must have interoperable and seamless communications to
         manage emergencies, establish command and control, maintain situational
         awareness, and function under a common operating picture for a broad
         spectrum of incidents.

         Emergency communications consist of three primary elements:
             1. Operability: The ability of emergency responders to establish and sustain
             communications in support of the operation.
             2. Interoperability: The ability of emergency responders to communicate
             among jurisdictions, disciplines, and levels of government using a variety of
             communication mediums. System operability is required for system
             interoperability.
             3. Continuity of communications: The ability of emergency response agencies
             to maintain communications in the event of damage to or destruction of the
             primary infrastructure.




41 | P a g e
   7.0 ADMINISTRATION, FINANCE, AND LOGISTICS
         7.1 Administration Information
         The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the communities served by the MSD, and the
         MSD ECC, will keep narratives and operational journals of response actions
         during an emergency in which they are affected.
         The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the City or Town, working with the MSD ECC,
         are responsible for implementing their CEMP’s. They will work with and
         support the MSD ECC and the SLCo Emergency Manager with any
         administrative and logistical needs for their jurisdiction. This will assist in the
         preparation of a list of resources necessary in carrying out their emergency
         responsibilities.


       7.2 Records, Preservation and Restoration
         All affected communities served by the MSD, as well as the MSD, must ensure
         the protection of their records so normal operations can continue after the
         emergency. Such records may also be vital to the rapid recovery from the
         effects of an emergency. The communities that are served by the MSD, and are
         affected, will support any information technology from their agency with the
         maintenance of plans for the safety, recovery, and restoration of the data and
         telecommunication systems during a disaster.


         7.3 Reports and Records
         The planning and activation of an effective emergency response require timely
         and accurate reporting of information and the maintenance of records on a
         continual basis. The Chief Elected Executive(s) of the communities served by the
         MSD and the MSD ECC if activated, will keep narrative and written log-type
         records of all actions that happened during an operational period, using the ICS
         214 form. The General Manager of the MSD or the Command Staff of the MSD
         ECC, will also keep a narrative written log-type records of all actions that
         happened within the MSD ECC and the City or Town, using the ICS 214 form.
         These reports are to include any situation reports, request for assistance, and
         damage assessments. Copies are to be sent to the SLCo Emergency Manager in
         a timely manner.

         The City or Towns and the MSD ECC Command Staff will use pre-established
         bookkeeping and accounting methods to track and maintain records of
         expenditures and obligations.



42 | P a g e
         The logs and records will form the basis for status reports to the county and the
         state. At a minimum, daily situation reports from both the City and Towns
         affected, and the MSD, will be forwarded to the county ECC during a local
         activation.

         7.4 Financial Management
         The General Manager of the MSD or their designee(s) and the MSD ECC
         Command Staff, working with the Chief Elected Executive(s) of the Cities and
         Towns affected, will track all expenditures staff time, and injuries during
         the time of the disaster or emergency in their jurisdiction. The expenditure
         tracking form will be sent to the County Finance/Administration Section of the
         County ECC, with a copy to be kept by the MSD ECC Finance/Administration
         Section Chief.

         The Finance/Administration Section Chief at the MSD ECC will ensure all
         documentation is complete, recorded on the appropriate forms and proper in all
         respects. If a community served by the MSD, is federally declared, the SLCo
         auditor will submit for reimbursement. If not declared, the documentation will
         serve as a recorded history of activity with expenditures.


         7.5 Accounting
         The General Manager of the MSD or the Finance/Administration Section Chief
         of the MSD ECC will maintain a complete and accurate account of emergency
         expenditures and obligations, to include personnel and equipment costs. Such
         records are essential to identify and document funds for which no federal
         reimbursement will be requested but might be eligible for reimbursement
         under major emergency project applications. When federal public assistance is
         provided under the Disaster Relief Act, local projects approved by FEMA are
         subject to state and federal audits.

         The MSD finance division will coordinate the reimbursement documentation
         for the FEMA Public Assistance Program during a presidentially declared
         disaster for the county government.


         7.6 Fiscal Agreements
         The Finance/Administration Section Chief will keep a clear statement of the
         agreements between all major agencies responding to an emergency
         concerning payment or reimbursement for personnel services rendered,
         equipment costs, and expenditures of materials used in response to an
         emergency is mandatory.
43 | P a g e
         7.7 Logistics
         Assumptions:
           ●   The communities served by the MSD have no local logistical capabilities.
           ●   The MSD has some logistical assets that are under contract with SLCo and may
               be requested by SLCo Emergency Management.
           ●   The MSD will supply SLCo Emergency Management a copy of the list of logistical
               assets that are available from the MSD.
         SLCo Emergency Management maintains current resource information on
         supplies, equipment, facilities, and skilled personnel available for emergency
         response and recovery operations. Unless covered in a mutual aid
         agreement/memorandum of understanding, emergency resources may not be
         sent outside the county unless the SLCo Mayor, the SLCo Emergency Manager,
         or other designated representative grants approval.




44 | P a g e
        8.0 PLAN MAINTENANCE AND DISTRIBUTION
         The MSD General Manager, or his/her designee(s), and the MSD Board of
         Trustees are responsible for the overall maintenance (review and update) of
         this CEMP and for ensuring that changes and revisions are prepared,
         coordinated, published and distributed.

         This plan shall be reviewed annually or after the following events:
          ● A major incident
          ● A change in operational resources (i.e., policy, personnel, organizational
               structures, management process, facilities, equipment)
          ● A formal update of planning guidance or standards
          ● A change in elected officials
          ● Each activation of the MSD CEMP and of the MSD ECC
          ● Major exercises
          ● A change in the jurisdiction’s demographics or hazard or threat profile
          ● A change in the acceptability of various risks
          ● The enactment of new or amended laws or ordinances.


         If the review does not generate significant changes to the CEMP, no new copies
         of this document are to be distributed. A copy will be kept with the MSD for
         their records.

         If significant changes are required, then the CEMP will be updated, and copies
         will be sent to each City and Town Council for re-promulgation.



         8.1 Emergency Operations Plan Maintenance
         To maintain CEMP capabilities and be prepared for any emergency or disaster
         that may affect communities served by the MSD, the General Manager of the
         MSD, or his designee(s), has developed and maintains a multi-year strategy.
         Table 10-1 provides a standardized list of activities necessary to monitor the
         dynamic elements of the MSD CEMP and the frequency of their occurrence.




45 | P a g e
                        Table 8-1 MSD - CEMP Maintenance Standards


                                               Tasks                          Frequency

 Plan update and                • Review entire plan for accuracy.         Annually
 certification                  • Incorporate lessons learned and
                                  changes in policy and philosophy.



 Train new Municipal            • Conduct MSD CEMP training for new        Within 90 days
 Services District                management staff.                        of appointment
 (MSD)
 Emergency
 Management

 Orient new policy              • Brief officials on the existence and     Within 90 days
 officials and senior             concepts of the MSD CEMP.                of appointment
 leadership

 Plan and conduct               • Conduct internal CEMP exercises.         Semiannually, annually
 exercises                      • Conduct joint exercises with the         or as needed.
                                  MSD, Cities, Towns and County
                                  emergency personnel.
                                • Support and participate in state-level
                                  and local-level exercises.




46 | P a g e
9.0 AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES
          9.1 Authorities
         Presidential Policy Directive 5 (PPD 5), Management of Domestic Incidents

         Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD 8), Enhance the country's security and
         resilience against emerging security challenges, threats, and risks, specifically
         acts of terrorism, natural disasters, and cyberattacks.

         Federal Authorities
           ● National Flood Insurance Act (42 U.S.C 4027) Executive Order 12146 of July 20,
              1979
           ● Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Public Law 93-
              288, as amended)
           ● National Response Framework (NFR) Policy 1410, Ordinance 2.28.160 and
              2.28.170

         The authorities under which the MSD CEMP may be activated include the following:

         State of Utah
              ● Utah Code § 53-2a Emergency Management Act
              ● State of Utah, Emergency Operations Plan Salt Lake County
              ● Salt Lake County Municipal Code § 2.86 Emergency Response and Recovery
              ● Salt Lake County Emergency Declaration

         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
             ● MSD Emergency Coordination Center (ECC) Activation and Response Plan
             ● MSD Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan


        Cities or Town
              ● Local Emergency Declaration
              ● City or Town CEMP

       9.2 Supporting Documents/Plans
           ●   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) 501, National Incident
               Management System (NIMS)
           ●   Federal Response Plan
           ●   FEMA 501-3, NIMS Basic - Preparedness
           ●   FEMA 501-7, NIMS Basic - Ongoing Management and Maintenance
           ●   Comprehensive Preparedness Guide (CPG) 101
           ●   State of Utah Emergency Operations Plan

47 | P a g e
           ●   State of Utah Hazard Mitigation Plan
           ●   Salt Lake County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)
               2023
           ●   Salt Lake County Hazard Mitigation Plan 2019
           ●   Town of Brighton Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   Town of Brighton Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   The City of Kearns Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   The City of Kearns Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   The Town of Copperton Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   The Town of Copperton Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   White City Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   White City Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   Emigration Canyon City Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   Emigration Canyon City Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   Magna City Hazard Mitigation Annex
           ●   Magna City Emergency Operations Plan
           ●   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Emergency Coordination
               Center Activation and Response Plan (MSD ECC Plan)
           ●   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Comprehensive Emergency
               Management Plan (MSD CEMP)




48 | P a g e
10 .0 GLOSSARY & LIST OF EMERGENCY SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

 All-Hazards: Describes all incidents, natural or human-caused, that warrant action to protect life,
 property, environment, and public health or safety and to minimize disruptions of government,
 social or economic activities.
 Emergency Management: The preparation for, mitigation of, response to, and recovery from
 emergencies and disasters. Specific emergency management responsibilities include, but are not
 limited to, the following:

         Reducing vulnerability of Utah people and communities to damage, injury, and loss of
          life and property, resulting from natural, technological or human-caused emergencies or
          hostile military or paramilitary action
         Preparing prompt and efficient response and recovery to protect lives and property
          affected by emergencies
         Responding to emergencies using all systems, plans, and resources necessary to preserve
          the health, safety, and welfare of persons or property affected by the emergency
         Providing for the rapid and orderly start of restoration and rehabilitation of persons and
          property affected by emergencies
 Salt Lake County Emergency Manager: A staff member who oversees the Salt Lake
 Emergency Management Division and serves as the manager when the Salt Lake Emergency
 Coordination Center is activated.

 Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC): A congressionally ratified organization
 that provides form and structure to interstate mutual aid. Through EMAC, a disaster-affected
 state can request and receive assistance from other member states quickly and efficiently,
 resolving two key issues up front, liability, and reimbursement.

 Emergency Coordination Center (ECC): A designated site from which public, private or
 voluntary agency officials can coordinate emergency operations in support of on-scene
 responders.
 Emergency Support Functions (ESFs): A functional emergency management responsibility
 established to facilitate assistance required during mitigation, preparedness, response, and
 recovery to save lives, protect health and property, and maintain public safety.

 ESF Assignment Matrix: Organizational grouping of all primary and support ESF agencies.

 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): Agency of the U.S. government
 tasked with disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery planning.



49 | P a g e
 Finance/Administration Section: Responsible for tracking incident costs and
 reimbursement accounting.

 Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-5: Enhances the ability of the United
 States to manage domestic incidents by establishing a single, comprehensive National
 Incident Management System.
 Incident Command System (ICS): An all-hazard, on-scene functional management system that
 establishes common standards in organization, terminology and procedures.

 Joint Information Center (JIC): The primary location for the coordination of media relations
 located in or near the EOC.

 Joint Information System (JIS): Provides the public with timely and accurate incident information
 and unified public messages. This system employs JICs and brings incident communicators
 together during an incident to develop, coordinate, and deliver a unified message. This will
 ensure that federal, state, and local levels of government are releasing information during an
 incident.

 Local Government: Local municipal governments, the school board and other government
 authorities created under county or municipal legislation.

 Local Nonprofits: Nonprofit agencies active in providing local community services that can either
 provide assistance during an emergency or would require assistance to continue providing their
 services to the community. United Way agencies are an example of local nonprofits under this
 category.

 Logistics Section: Provides facilities, services, and materials (including personnel to operate the
 requested equipment) for incident support.

 Municipality: Legally constituted municipalities are authorized and encouraged to create
 municipal emergency management programs. Municipal emergency management programs
 shall coordinate their activities with those of the county emergency management agency.
 Municipalities without emergency management programs shall be served by their respective
 county agencies. If a municipality elects to establish an emergency management program, it
 must comply with all laws, rules, and requirements applicable to county emergency management
 agencies. Each municipal CEMP must be consistent with, and subject to, the applicable county
 CEMP. In addition, each municipality must coordinate requests for state or federal emergency
 response assistance with its county.

 This requirement does not apply to requests for reimbursement under federal public disaster
 assistance programs.

 National Incident Management System (NIMS): A systematic, proactive approach to guide
 departments and agencies at all levels of government, nongovernmental organizations and the
 private sector, to work seamlessly to prevent, protect against, respond to, recover from and

50 | P a g e
 mitigate the effects of incidents, regardless of cause, size, location or complexity, to reduce the
 loss of life and property and harm to the environment.

 National Response Framework (NRF): The guiding principles that enable all response partners
 to prepare for and provide a unified national response to disasters and emergencies. It
 establishes a comprehensive, national, all-hazards approach to domestic incident response.

 Operations Section: Directs and coordinates all operations and assists the emergency
 management bureau chief in the development of incident operations.

 Planning Section: Responsible for collecting, evaluating, disseminating, and using information
 about the development of the incident and the status of resources.

 Primary ESF Agency: Agency assigned primary responsibility to manage and coordinate a specific
 ESF. Primary agencies are designated based on their having the most authorities
 resources, capabilities or expertise relative to the accomplishment of the specific ESF.

 Primary ESF Coordinator: The entity with management oversight for that particular ESF. The
 coordinator has ongoing responsibilities throughout the preparedness, response, and recovery
 phases of incident management. Responsibilities of the ESF coordinator include the following:

         Coordinating before, during and after an incident, including pre-incident planning and
          coordination
         Maintaining ongoing contact with ESF primary and support agencies
         Conducting periodic ESF meetings and conference calls
         Coordinating efforts with corresponding private sector organizations
         Coordinating ESF activities relating to catastrophic incident planning and critical
          infrastructure preparedness, as appropriate
 Policy Group: Consists of executive decision-makers who must collaborate to manage the
 consequences of the disaster. This group makes critical strategic decisions to manage the
 emergency.
 Public Information: Emergency information that is gathered, prepared and coordinated for
 dissemination during a disaster or major event.

 Safety/Security: Safety/security is monitored, and measures are developed for ensuring a safe
 and secure environment in which to run emergency operations.

 State liaison: Individual appointed by the Utah Department of Emergency Management to act
 as liaison during emergencies to coordinate state actions for providing effective coordination and
 communications during the event.
 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs): States in general terms what the guideline is
 expected to accomplish.


51 | P a g e
 Support ESF Agency: Entities with specific capabilities or resources that support the primary
 agency in executing the mission of the ESFs.




52 | P a g e
ESFs and their roles in Emergency Management
The 15 Emergency Support Functions (ESFs) in emergency management are organized into key areas of support
that federal, state, and local agencies provide during an emergency or disaster. Each ESF has a specific role and
function, ensuring a coordinated response to various aspects of an incident.

1. ESF #1 - Transportation
Description: Supports the restoration and management of transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges,
and public transit systems. It also coordinates the evacuation and movement of people and resources.

2. ESF #2 - Communications
Description: Ensures the availability and reliability of communication systems, including telecommunications,
information technology, and cybersecurity. It facilitates communication among agencies, responders, and the
public.

3. ESF #3 - Public Works and Engineering
Description: Provides engineering expertise, construction management, and infrastructure repair, including
roads, bridges, public buildings, and utilities. It also supports debris removal and restoration of essential services.

4. ESF #4 - Firefighting
Description: Manages and coordinates firefighting operations and resources, including the suppression of
wildfires and structural fires. It also provides support to local firefighting efforts during emergencies.

5. ESF #5 - Information and Planning
Description: Supports overall coordination and planning efforts during an emergency, including the collection,
analysis, and dissemination of critical information. It ensures that decision-makers have timely and accurate
information.

6. ESF #6 - Mass Care, Emergency Assistance, Temporary Housing, and Human Services
Description: Coordinates the provision of mass care services, including shelter, feeding, and emergency first aid.
It also provides support for temporary housing, family reunification, and human services.

7. ESF #7 - Logistics and Resource Support
Description: Provides logistics management and resource support, including the acquisition, transportation, and
distribution of essential supplies and equipment. It ensures that resources are available and accessible during an
emergency.

8. ESF #8 - Public Health and Medical Services
Description: Manages public health and medical services during an emergency, including medical care, public
health surveillance, mental health services, and mass casualty management. It also addresses environmental
health and the safety of food and water supplies.


53 | P a g e
9. ESF #9 - Search and Rescue
Description: Coordinates search and rescue operations for individuals trapped or missing during an emergency,
including urban, wilderness, and water rescues. It also supports the recovery of human remains.

10. ESF #10 - Oil and Hazardous Materials Response
Description: Manages and coordinates the response to oil spills and hazardous materials incidents, including the
containment, cleanup, and disposal of hazardous substances. It also addresses the environmental impact of such
incidents.

11. ESF #11 - Agriculture and Natural Resources
Description: Supports the protection and restoration of agricultural resources, including food safety, animal and
plant health, and natural resources. It also coordinates the provision of food assistance during emergencies.

12. ESF #12 - Energy
Description: Coordinates the restoration and protection of energy infrastructure, including electricity, natural
gas, and petroleum. It ensures the continued availability of energy resources and supports the stabilization of
energy supplies.

13. ESF #13 - Public Safety and Security
Description: Provides public safety and security support, including law enforcement, crowd control, and traffic
management. It also coordinates the protection of critical infrastructure and the enforcement of emergency
orders.

14. ESF #14 - Cross-Sector Business and Infrastructure
Description: Facilitates the restoration and resilience of critical infrastructure sectors, including communications,
energy, transportation, and financial services. It also coordinates the protection and recovery of private sector
assets.

15. ESF #15 - External Affairs
Description: Manages public information, media relations, and community outreach during an emergency. It
ensures that accurate and timely information is provided to the public, stakeholders, and the media, and
coordinates messaging across agencies.

These ESF provide a comprehensive framework for organizing and coordinating response efforts across multiple
sectors and levels of government.




54 | P a g e
11 .0 ACRONYMS



 ARES – Amateur Radio Emergency Services COG – Continuity of Government

 CFR – Code of Federal Regulations COOP – Continuity of Operations Plan

 ECC – Emergency Coordination Center

 EMAC – Emergency Management Assistance Compact EMS - Emergency

 Medical Services

 EOC - Emergency Operations Center

 EOP - Emergency Operations Plan
 ESFs - Emergency Support Functions

 FEMA - Federal Emergency Management Agency MSD – Greater Salt Lake

 Municipal Services District Haz Mat - Hazardous Materials

 HSPD – Homeland Security Presidential Directive ICS - Incident Command

 System

 ICP - Incident Command Post

 ISM – Incident Support Model

 JIC - Joint Information Center JIS – Joint Information System

 NIMS – National Incident Management System NRF – National Response

 Framework

 SARA – Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act SOP – Standard

 Operating Procedures

 TRAX – Light Rail System

 UVDD—Utah Valley Dispatch District


55 | P a g e
 VECC – Valley Emergency Communications Center

 WFZ – Wasatch Fault Zone or WVFZ – Wasatch Valley Fault Zone




56 | P a g e
    12.0 ANNEXES


 1. The Town of Brighton

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan

          d. City Map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 2. Copperton

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan

          d. City Map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 3. Emigration Canyon

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan

          d. City map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 4. The City of Kearns

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan
57 | P a g e
          d. City Map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 5. Magna City

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan

          d. City Map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 6. White City

          a. Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP)

          b. Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)

          c. Hazard Mitigation Plan

          d. City map

          e. Evacuation Map/Zones

 7. Unincorporated Salt Lake County

 The Unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County are supported directly by Salt Lake County Emergency
 Management and associated County plans, such as the County CEMP, COOP, Hazard Mitigation Plan and other
 plans. Those plans, and their annexes, may be obtained from Salt Lake County Emergency Management or
 may be included in this MSD CEMP annex for reference as needed.




58 | P a g e
