                                      EMIGRATION CANYON
                                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA
                                          May 27, 2025

                                      Unified Fire Authority Station 119
                                      5025 E Emigration Canyon Road
                                         Salt Lake City, Utah 84108

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Emigration Canyon Council will hold a meeting
at 7:00 PM on the 27th day of May 2025 at the Emigration Canyon Fire Station, 5025 E Emigration
Canyon Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108 as follows:

** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.


7:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
 1. Call to Order and Determine Quorum
 2. Pledge of Allegiance
 3. Recognize Visiting Officials

4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
   Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
   is authorized by the Governing Body.

5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
   A. Unified Police Department (UPD) – Detective Dawn Larsen
   B. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) – Chief Bryan Case
   C. Salt Lake County Animal Services – Gary Bowen

6. PROJECT UPDATES
   A. Skycrest Culvert and Emigration Canyon Road Widening Grant & Environmental Study –
      Tamaran Woodland – Engineering Manager


7. CONSENT AGENDA
   A. Approval of Council Meeting Minutes
      1. August 27, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes
      2. April 22, 2025 City Council Workshop Meeting Minutes
      3. April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes

8. PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS
   A. Resolution R2025-07, Approval of the FY2026 City of Emigration Canyon Budget.

9. PRESENTATION ITEMS - None

10. COUNCIL BUSINESS: (Discussion/Motion)
                                               1
   A. Dark Sky License Plate Initiative – Council Member Catherine Harris
   B. Discussion on Open Burning Ordinance Draft – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
   C. Reappointment of Dale Berreth to Emigration Canyon Planning Commission – Council
      Member David Brems
   D. Ordinance 2025-O-02, Adopting Updated Engineering Standards – Tamaran Woodland,
      Engineering Manager
   E. Ordinance 2025-O-03, Adopting Updated FY2026 Fee Schedule – Cameron Platt, Legal
      Counsel

11. CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (Discussion/Motion)


12. COUNCIL REPORTS
    A. Council Member Brems
            1. Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
                Area (SLVLESA)
            2. Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
            3. Community Renewable Energy Program
    B. Council Member Harris
            1. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)
            2. Watershed Plan
    C. Council Member Pinon
            1. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
            2. Utah Broadband
            3. Update on Possible High-Density Development
    D. Deputy Mayor Hawkes
            1. Website (www.emigration.utah.gov)
            2. CodeRED
            3. Association of Municipal Governments
            4. Utah League of Cities and Townes
    E. Mayor Smolka
            1. Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)
            2. Landfill Council
            3. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee
            4. Council of Governments (COG)
            5. Legislative Updates

13. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
    Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
    is authorized by the Governing Body.

14. FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS

15. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
    205
    A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
        individual.
    B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
    C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.

                                               2
  D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
  E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

16. ADJOURN

  ZOOM MEETING:

  Topic: Emigration Canyon City Council Meeting
  Time: May 27, 2025, 7:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
  Join Zoom Meeting:
  https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87013454018?pwd=q91NDapMtS0iDb5mpiFbK1t7TM9r5A.1

  Meeting ID: 870 1345 4018
  Passcode: 777539

  Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
  District will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
  assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

  Posted on: May 26, 2025




                                             3
                 EMIGRATION CANYON
                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                 AUGUST 27, 2024, 7:00 PM
                 UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                 5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                                  EMIGRATION CANYON
                             CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                            **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:                                     Council Members Excused:
Joe Smolka, Mayor                                            Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
Robert Pinon, Council Member
David Brems, Council Member
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Staff Present:
Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
Nichole Watt, Deputy Clerk
Nicole Smedley, Recorder

Others Present:
Dawn Larsen, Unified Police Department
Gary Bowen, Salt Lake County Animal Services Representative
Jay Springer, Smith Hartvigsen

   1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

Mayor Smolka, presiding, called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and noted that Deputy Mayor
Hawkes was excused.

   2. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited by all in attendance.

   3. Recognize Visiting Officials

There were no visiting officials present.

   4. Citizen Public Input

Jessica Steed voiced strong opposition to a proposed plan to widen the main road in the
canyon and add bike lanes extending from the fire station. She outlined four primary reasons
for her opposition. First, she cited personal concerns, explaining that the project would

                             EMIGRATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
              COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                              COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2


eliminate all of her parking options—both her single-car garage and on-street parking—
rendering her home unlivable and unsellable due to the loss of access. Second, she
challenged the proposal’s justification on the grounds of safety. While acknowledging that the
bike lanes were intended to enhance safety, she argued that the increased infrastructure
would actually reduce safety by attracting a higher volume of recreational users, including not
only cyclists but also runners, dog walkers, and sightseers. This increase in activity, she
contended, would introduce more congestion and hazards. Third, Ms. Steed raised
environmental and aesthetic concerns. She emphasized the natural beauty of the canyon,
noting that the proposed area is bordered by a creek on one side and a mountainside on the
other. She warned that implementing the plan would require relocating the creek and altering
the landscape, which could disrupt the local ecosystem and harm wildlife dependent on the
water source. Lastly, she questioned the financial viability of the project, pointing out that the
city has limited revenue sources, primarily Ruth’s Diner and property taxes. She argued that
the city cannot afford to invest in a project that, in her view, prioritizes the interests of non-
residents over those of the canyon’s long-term residents. Steed concluded by urging the
council to reconsider the plan and instead allocate resources toward addressing other pressing
issues in the canyon. She offered to provide alternative solutions at a later time and requested
that the council prioritize the needs of local residents who elected them.

Mike Price spoke in opposition to the proposed road-widening project, positioning himself as
someone deeply connected to multiple stakeholder groups potentially impacted by the plan. He
explained that, as a long-term canyon resident, frequent driver, avid cyclist, and runner, his
perspective represented a convergence of all parties affected—residents, road users, and
recreationalists. Mr. Price began by acknowledging the proposal’s intent to enhance safety,
particularly for cyclists, but expressed skepticism about its effectiveness. Drawing from
personal experience, he recounted two serious cycling accidents that required ambulance
transport and resulted in major injuries and surgeries. He emphasized that both incidents
occurred in wide, designated bike lanes and were caused by vehicles turning in front of him—a
type of collision that, he noted, accounts for over 60% of bike-related accidents. He argued
that widening the road would do little to address this predominant cause of accidents, as only
about 10% stem from side-swipes or unsafe passing, which the plan might potentially mitigate.
He further warned that expanding the road could inadvertently increase danger by encouraging
higher speeds among both motor vehicles and cyclists. Price expressed particular concern for
the safety of his young children, stating that he felt more threatened by speeding vehicles and
motorcyclists than by cyclists sharing the road. He asserted that the proposed changes would
create an environment that promotes riskier driving behavior rather than solving underlying
safety concerns. In closing, Mr. Price referenced earlier remarks made by Jessica Steed,
echoing concerns about the detrimental impact on property values, the potential loss of the
canyon’s unique character, and the displacement of residents. He urged the council to
consider the broader implications of the proposal and thanked them for their time and
attention.


Alyska Emerson delivered an emotional statement in response to the proposed road widening
and addition of bike lanes in Emigration Canyon. She began by reflecting on the personal and
sentimental value of her home, a property she and her late husband had painstakingly



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3


restored. Located across from a notable red wall and fronted by a 400-foot stream, she
described the property as uniquely beautiful and irreplaceable, sentiments her husband had
often expressed and which she came to fully appreciate through years of living there. Ms.
Emerson acknowledged that she was uncertain whether her property would be directly
impacted by the proposal but emphasized that her concern extended beyond her own home.
She expressed solidarity with neighbors whose homes might be affected and advocated on
their behalf, noting that many had similarly invested deeply in maintaining the character and
beauty of their properties. She specifically referenced earlier comments by Jessica Steed,
recognizing the personal and generational ties residents have to their homes and the natural
environment, including the stream that children in the community had grown up around.
Questioning the motivations behind the proposal, Ms. Emerson asked the council to consider
whom they represent, underscoring that while some residents may bike, not all do. She
appealed for the council to prioritize the voices and interests of the canyon’s residents, whom
they were elected to serve. She voiced a desire for unity and cooperation rather than conflict,
stressing the importance of transparency and open communication in city decision-making.
She concluded by expressing a hope that alternative solutions could be explored—ones that
might meet safety or access goals without compromising the well-being of the community. She
noted that residents had not had adequate time to review or respond to the proposal and
called for more inclusive dialogue moving forward. In response.

Mayor Joe Smolka briefly interjected, acknowledging that the council had only recently learned
of the plan as well, reinforcing her concerns about the need for greater transparency.

Michael Insley, a resident of Emigration Canyon, spoke against the proposed road widening
and bike lane installation, citing concerns about safety, property impact, and the potential for
unintended consequences. He began by describing his residence on a long, straight stretch of
road near Pinecrest, which he said becomes a high-speed thoroughfare at night. According to
Insley, this area is frequently used by drivers of modified vehicles attempting to reach
excessive speeds, which he identified as a significant road safety issue. Mr. Insley expressed
skepticism that expanding the road would improve safety. He argued that the real issue lies in
the lack of adherence to existing traffic rules by both drivers and cyclists. He referenced an
incident in which cyclists reportedly failed to stop for a school bus, resulting in a collision with
children—an example he used to highlight the consequences of not enforcing traffic
regulations. In his view, such behavior reflects a broader problem that cannot be addressed
simply through infrastructure changes. He also raised concerns that widening the road would
encourage faster travel for both vehicles and cyclists, particularly downhill, thereby
exacerbating existing safety risks rather than mitigating them. Insley noted that, while no
finalized proposal or detailed plans had been presented, any road expansion could affect
nearby properties. He specifically mentioned his fiancée’s father’s rental property, where the
garage is situated directly adjacent to the road, suggesting that such properties could be at risk
of being compromised or lost. Mr. Insley concluded by suggesting alternative approaches to
improving safety in the canyon. He proposed reallocating funds toward increasing the
presence of law enforcement and issuing more citations for traffic violations, whether
committed by motorists or cyclists. He believed that stricter enforcement could help
communicate to visitors that the canyon is a regulated and protected area, ultimately leading to
safer conditions without the need for costly and potentially disruptive infrastructure changes.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


Bri Adams, a resident of Emigration Canyon, expressed her concerns about the proposed
road widening and bike lane project, aligning her views with those already voiced by Jessica
Steed. While not residing directly on the main canyon road, Ms. Adams emphasized the
importance of considering the broader community impact and raised a point she felt had not
yet been fully addressed—eminent domain. She voiced strong opposition to the potential use
of eminent domain to carry out the proposed infrastructure changes. She stressed that such
governmental authority should be reserved for only the most critical situations and not used to
accommodate recreational amenities, particularly when they benefit individuals—such as many
cyclists—who do not reside in the canyon or contribute to local taxes. She characterized the
potential use of eminent domain in this context as an overreach of governmental power and
urged the council to explore alternative solutions that would not infringe on residents' property
rights. Among the possible alternatives she proposed were lowering the speed limit through
the affected area and increasing efforts to enforce safe biking practices, such as riding in
single file. Ms. Adams expressed frustration that current requests for such behavior were
frequently ignored by cyclists and questioned whether additional signage or enforcement could
improve compliance. In closing, she stated that the current plan did not appear to serve the
interests of canyon residents and instead seemed to prioritize non-residents. She appealed to
the council to protect the rights and well-being of the community, urging them not to sacrifice
the interests of local homeowners for the benefit of visitors.

Rick Funk, a resident of Emigration Canyon, addressed concerns regarding the potential
environmental and financial impacts of the proposed road widening and bike lane project. He
began by emphasizing the natural significance of the area, particularly the mature river birch
trees, some of which he estimated to be over 100 years old. Mr. Funk noted that these trees,
along with the surrounding wildlife, contribute to the unique ecosystem and cooler
temperatures characteristic of the canyon, forming an essential part of its identity and appeal.
Rather than supporting the current proposal, he offered an alternative solution aimed at
accommodating cyclists without disrupting the existing roadway or private properties. He
suggested the development of a separate, dedicated bike trail that would run from the base of
Emigration Canyon to Twin Pines, with a possible extension to the summit and even to Park
City. He explained that such a trail could be constructed off-road, potentially on BLM land,
thereby avoiding interference with private properties and preserving the canyon’s natural
landscape. Mr. Funk envisioned this trail as a state-supported project, especially in light of
increased interest in outdoor recreation and the upcoming Olympics. He suggested it could
include amenities such as water stations and lighting to support activities like night biking,
creating a safe and enjoyable experience for cyclists while also reducing conflict between road
users. He framed the idea as a long-term investment that would offer both recreational and
economic benefits without the negative consequences associated with altering the existing
road infrastructure. In conclusion, he encouraged the council to consider this alternative as a
more sustainable and community-friendly approach, and he thanked them for their attention to
the matter.

Megan Palazo, a resident of Emigration Canyon, expressed strong concerns about the
behavior of cyclists in Emigration Canyon and the implications of the proposed road-widening
project. She began by recounting her initial experience upon moving into the canyon during
winter, unaware of the influx of cyclists that would arrive with warmer seasons. While noting



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  5


her familiarity with bike trails from her upbringing in Portland, she described the behavior of
some cyclists in the canyon as problematic and, at times, dangerous. Ms. Palazo reported
regularly observing cyclists disregarding traffic laws, including running red lights and
obstructing traffic. She stated that she had begun documenting these incidents with
photographs and tracking the number of cyclists she encountered, often totaling over 70
between her home and the end of the canyon. She highlighted the safety risks posed by
having to cross the double yellow line repeatedly to pass cyclists, sometimes multiple times a
day, and questioned how such conditions could be considered safe. She also shared a
conversation she had with a now-retired local officer, who had previously told her there was
little that could be done to enforce rules against cyclists due to a lack of identification.
However, Ms. Palazo disputed this claim based on discussions she had with other law
enforcement contacts, who indicated that cyclists can, in fact, be cited using vehicle-mounted
cameras and onboard computer systems. She emphasized the importance of law enforcement
presence and accountability before encouraging additional cycling activity in the area. She
observed that recreational cyclists tend to be more respectful, whereas competitive or
sponsored riders often disregard traffic rules in pursuit of speed, sometimes even attempting
unsafe passes around vehicles. She expressed concern that if a vehicle were to collide with a
cyclist under these circumstances, the driver would likely be held responsible despite the
cyclist's reckless behavior. She concluded by urging the council to prioritize enforcement of
existing traffic laws, suggesting that consistent and visible law enforcement could help instill
respect for safety regulations among cyclists. Ms. Palazo cautioned against moving forward
with any plans that could involve the seizure of property without first addressing these
fundamental behavioral and safety issues. She noted that some of her clients, who are
experienced cyclists, deliberately avoid Emigration Canyon because of the hostility and unsafe
practices that currently exist.

A Zoom audience member who resides at the top of Quarter Mile Road, near the upper section
of the main Emigration Canyon road before Little Mountain, voiced concerns about the
proposed road widening and addition of bike lanes. The speaker, identifying as both a cyclist
and a motorist who regularly commutes through the canyon, expressed reservations that
aligned with points made earlier in the meeting, although they acknowledged joining the
session late and missing some comments. The primary concern raised was that increasing
road capacity—by widening the roadway and adding a dedicated bike lane—would not
alleviate existing congestion or safety issues but would instead attract more users, particularly
cyclists. The speaker referenced a well-documented phenomenon in transportation planning
known as "induced demand," which holds that expanding infrastructure often leads to an
increase in usage rather than a reduction. They argued that the canyon road is already heavily
used and that the proposed changes would likely restore the current level of congestion in
short order, simply with a greater number of cyclists. Instead of expansion, the speaker
advocated for exploring alternative approaches to managing the volume of cyclists, suggesting
that economic measures such as pricing or other disincentives could be more effective in
controlling usage. They acknowledged the inherent risks faced by cyclists due to traffic and
road conditions, while also noting that discourteous behavior is present among both drivers
and cyclists. They expressed hope for improved mutual respect among all road users. The
speaker concluded by stating that increasing the canyon’s appeal as a cycling destination
through added capacity would be counterproductive and would come at a high cost, both



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  6


financially and in terms of community impact. They urged the council to consider strategies
focused on reducing demand rather than expanding infrastructure.

David, a resident and regular commuter from Emigration Canyon to the University of Utah,
briefly addressed the proposed road-widening and bike lane project. Acknowledging that he
joined the meeting late and may be repeating concerns already voiced, he identified himself as
an avid cyclist who rides year-round and expressed strong support for cycling infrastructure.
However, he also emphasized his deep appreciation for the natural beauty and aesthetics of
the canyon. David conveyed concern over what he had heard—albeit secondhand—regarding
elements of the proposal that could negatively affect the canyon’s environment. Specifically, he
mentioned reports that parts of the plan might involve altering or closing off sections of the
creek. As someone who has encountered strict limitations while attempting to make changes
to his own property in the canyon, he found it surprising and concerning that such significant
environmental modifications might be considered. He questioned how these potential changes
aligned with the broader community interest in preserving the canyon’s unique landscape and
ecological integrity. In closing, David underscored that while he strongly supports cycling as a
mode of transportation and recreation, he believed that the environmental and aesthetic costs
of the current proposal may outweigh its benefits.

Jacob Steed, a resident of Emigration Canyon, expressed clear opposition to the proposal to
widen the canyon road and add bike lanes. He stated his belief that the plan would not
effectively address the core issue of cyclist safety, which he understood to be the primary
rationale for the project. Instead, he echoed sentiments shared by previous speakers, including
David, suggesting that the proposed changes would likely increase the number of cyclists in
the canyon without improving safety. Mr. Steed also voiced concern over the potential impact
the project would have on the natural beauty of the canyon, emphasizing that it is a residential
area and a neighborhood first and foremost. He urged the council to remember that their role is
to represent and support the residents who live in the canyon, rather than to prioritize the
needs or interests of visitors or non-resident users. Reiterating that the proposal seemed to
benefit outside parties more than the local community, he firmly stated his opposition to the
project.

Council Member Catherine Harris thanked everybody, noting there had been some very
eloquent and impassioned comments. Has had no idea what proposal everyone is talking
about, and didn’t think Council Member Brems did either. She inquired of where the public was
getting this information.

Mayor Smolka began by directly addressing the confusion and speculation that had arisen. He
confirmed that no formal proposal or specific plan currently exists for the road project. He
explained that the city had secured funding intended for future use to potentially widen the
road, but emphasized that no decisions had been made regarding how that money would be
used. He dismissed concerns about environmental impacts, such as creek closures or tree
removal, as premature and speculative. Smolka noted the long-term increase in bicycle traffic
in the canyon over the past 55 years and predicted it would continue to grow, regardless of
infrastructure changes. He acknowledged the need to address this issue somehow, though he



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  7


did not commit to a specific course of action. He also referenced and praised Rick Funk’s
earlier suggestion of a separate bike trail but expressed uncertainty about the feasibility of
implementing such a plan. Importantly, he reminded attendees that cyclists cannot legally be
prohibited from using the canyon road.
Council Member Harris reiterated her appreciation for the public’s articulate and heartfelt
comments and expressed surprise and concern at the perception that a formal plan was in
progress. She stated that she, along with Council Member Brems, had not been aware of any
proposal and felt caught off guard by the strong reactions from residents. She emphasized that
all council members live in the area and share the community’s interest in preserving the
canyon’s character for residents, drivers, and cyclists alike. She discussed traffic issues in the
canyon more broadly, noting that excessive vehicle speeds remain a major concern. She
referenced past efforts to explore traffic calming measures and noted that legal and
engineering constraints had previously limited the city’s ability to reduce speed limits.
However, she cited a recent example from Salt Lake City, where the speed limit near the zoo
had been reduced from 40 to 30 miles per hour, despite the road being engineered for higher
speeds. She also suggested the potential benefit of narrowing lane widths to visually cue
drivers to reduce speed, referencing the impact of narrower roads in residential areas.
Mayor Smolka made it clear that the issue was not currently on the agenda and assured
residents that any future plans would be carefully considered and developed with full
transparency. He indicated that the initial conversation on the topic may have originated with
resident Jessica Steed, and Council Member Harris inquired further about where information
had been shared, noting that she had not encountered any formal announcement online or
elsewhere. The exchange closed with a reaffirmation of the council’s commitment to
thoughtful, inclusive deliberation regarding any future development proposals.
Public Comment concluded with an extended and wide-ranging discussion centered on a
potential future project to widen the canyon road and introduce bike lanes. The conversation,
prompted by resident concerns, clarified numerous misconceptions and provided insight into
the status of the proposal, related funding, and avenues for public involvement.
Jessica Steed spoke again to explain her motivation for bringing the issue forward,
acknowledging that while no official plan currently exists, significant funding has been
earmarked for road work in the canyon. She expressed concern that once such funding is fully
secured, public input might be rendered ineffective. She urged caution about accepting
external funding without clear plans and called for transparency and resident advocacy before
formal commitments are made.
Council Member Catherine Harris responded, emphasizing that the council was not pursuing
any plan hastily and would not support a project that created long-term obligations the city
could not control.
Mayor Joe Smolka confirmed that there is no formal proposal in place. He clarified that while
funding had been approved to help address cyclist-related concerns, specific plans, designs,
or decisions had not yet been made. He cautioned against assumptions about environmental



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  8


impacts such as cutting down trees or closing the creek, which he stated were speculative. He
also mentioned that biking traffic in the canyon has grown steadily over the past 55 years and
is expected to continue, regardless of infrastructure changes. He provided updates on current
safety efforts, including the addition of a second full-time Unified Police Department officer for
the canyon as of July 1 and efforts to procure a camera and noise monitoring system to
address traffic speed and noise concerns.
Tyler Tippits referenced a 2015 study conducted by the Emigration Canyon Road
Improvement Committee (ECRIC), which evaluated possible upgrades and their costs.
Gary Vaughn added that implementing all the recommendations in that report could cost up to
$15 million, a figure far beyond anything currently proposed.
Several attendees, including council members and audience participants, discussed right-of-
way concerns and clarified the legal distinction between using public right-of-way and invoking
eminent domain. Mayor Smolka explained that there are 66 feet of right-of-way through much
of the canyon and that current road width is about 25 feet, leaving space for possible
adjustments without requiring property seizures. Council Member Harris added that eminent
domain would not be pursued lightly and noted the council’s general reluctance to use it,
referencing a single past instance where it was done with the property owner’s consent. The
conversation also explored whether funding could be used for alternative safety improvements
rather than road construction. Mayor Smolka responded that the $6.7 million in funding was
construction-specific and allocated for a defined segment of the canyon—from around the red
wall up to Pinecrest. He stated that this funding comes through the Wasatch Front Regional
Council (WFRC), which oversees major transportation projects in the region, and that the city’s
required local match would be only $371,000—a figure he described as unusually low and
highly favorable. Discussion then turned to the timeline and public participation process. Brian,
a resident, asked when a final commitment would be made and whether there would be a
formal council action with an opportunity for public input. Mayor Smolka estimated that such a
decision point would likely occur at the end of 2025 or early 2026. Michael Insley followed up
to confirm that once engineering proposals are received, there would be additional
opportunities for public comment. Mayor Smolka affirmed that the Municipal Services District
would manage engineering and bidding and that there would be public review periods
embedded in the process.

   5. Reports from other Municipal Providers

   5.1 Unified Police Department

Detective Dawn Larsen provided an update on public safety activity in Emigration Canyon, as
well as insight into current enforcement challenges related to cyclist behavior, noise
ordinances, and officer presence in the area. She reported that the police had responded to 52
calls for service, with 12 resulting in initial reports. Most of these incidents involved campers in
the canyon—approximately five or six cases—while the remainder included a few reports of
suspicious activity. Overall, she described the recent period as relatively quiet and tame.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  9


Addressing concerns raised earlier in the meeting about cyclist behavior, Detective Larsen
confirmed that she and her partner routinely engage with cyclists, especially those riding side-
by-side above the fire station or failing to stop at red lights and school bus signs. She
described a recent personal encounter with a cyclist who followed her vehicle dangerously
close—so near that he would have collided with her had she braked suddenly. She reiterated
that officers are actively speaking with violators and are fully aware that they can legally cite
cyclists, contrary to some misconceptions voiced earlier.

Chief Bryan Case then asked about the challenges involved in enforcing noise ordinances,
particularly concerning loud vehicles in the canyon.

Detective Larsen explained that enforcing such ordinances is extremely difficult. Legal noise
enforcement requires trained personnel equipped with calibrated sound meters, and due to the
canyon’s acoustics—where sound echoes unpredictably—it’s necessary to factor in those
distortions. Additionally, enforcing noise violations legally requires a significant effort, typically
involving three officers and support from the health department for accurate readings. She
shared that even during joint operations involving the health department, only one citation had
been issued, and that ticket was later dismissed. To address this challenge, Detective Larsen
discussed a proposed solution: the installation of a new sound meter camera system. These
systems are capable of adjusting for canyon acoustics and can automatically detect and
document noise violations. Once a potential infraction is recorded, the system captures an
image of the vehicle's license plate and sends it to law enforcement for review and citation
approval. She expressed optimism that this system would make enforcement more efficient
and significantly reduce noise-related disturbances.

Officer Wilson also addressed a question from a community member regarding police
presence in the canyon during nights and weekends. He explained that the department
currently has two full-time equivalent positions allocated for canyon patrols, totaling 80 officer
hours per week. The coverage primarily focuses on daytime hours, but he acknowledged the
need for increased presence during late afternoons and weekends when issues tend to spike.
He explained that he works long shifts on weekends (Saturday through Monday), while
Detective Larsen covers Tuesday through Friday. Although full 24/7 coverage is not currently
funded, emergency backup is available from Millcreek officers when needed.

   5.2 Unified Fire Authority

Chief Bryan Case of the Unified Fire Authority provided a brief but detailed report on recent
public safety and emergency management activities in Emigration Canyon. He began by
noting that the UFA had responded to two service calls over the past 30 days. One was a
motor vehicle accident that did not require medical assistance, and the other involved a group
of teenagers who had started a bonfire near the summit at Little Mountain. While the fire posed
no threat and was promptly extinguished with the assistance of fire crews, Chief Case flagged
the incident as part of an ongoing concern about unauthorized fires in that area. He reported
that the teens involved were cooperative and responsive to instructions from firefighters. He
also provided an update on the Emigration Evacuation Zone Project, which is being developed
in collaboration with Salt Lake County Emergency Management. He stated that the mapping


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 10


phase was complete and that all necessary details had been incorporated. A finalized version
of the updated evacuation zone artwork had been sent to the county for inclusion in the formal
plan. He indicated that the plan would soon be ready for review by city leadership and that he
would await their guidance on the next steps for implementation. Next, he highlighted safety
concerns related to a specific curve on the back side of Little Mountain, near Highway 65,
where a large pullout area overlooks Little Dell Reservoir. He explained that this location has
been the site of numerous traffic incidents, and that the area lacks sufficient safety features,
such as chevron signs and continuous jersey barriers. He noted that UFA Station 119 crews
brought the issue to his attention and that coordination is now underway with Salt Lake
County’s roadway engineering team to assess and implement improvements. Supporting this
concern with data, he stated that approximately 36 incidents had occurred there over the past
four years, and with assistance from Detective Dawn Larsen of the Unified Police Department,
they confirmed 53 calls for service in the area since 2019. He also noted that the Salt Lake
County Sheriff’s Office had responded to numerous incidents at that site. Chief Case assured
the council that the county is actively engaged in helping address the problem. In closing, he
extended an invitation to the council and the mayor to attend a retreat hosted by UFA. He
proposed showcasing UFA facilities, including their logistics hub and task force operations, as
a potential venue for learning and collaboration. Additionally, he announced that UFA’s
Medical Bureau is preparing to resume CPR certification classes, which will soon be listed on
the UFA website. While no classes are currently scheduled, the upcoming offerings will be
available to anyone interested in receiving training.

Council Member Catherine Harris concluded the segment by publicly thanking Chief Case for
his leadership, particularly in spearheading Firewise landscaping efforts around the station.

   5.3 Salt Lake County Animal Services

Gary Bowen reported that there had not been any meetings recently, but he received a phone
call from Carrie Seibert regarding a serious incident. A person had entered a facility and
threatened the staff with a firearm. Following their conversation, Ms. Seibert sent a letter
summarizing the situation, which Mr. Bowen then forwarded to the rest of the council. During
their discussion, Mr. Bowen inquired about the presence of regular deputies assigned from the
Unified Police Department and was informed that a deputy is stationed there full time. The
individual involved in the incident was reportedly from Heber and had become upset after a pet
was taken to Animal Services, incurring a $200 fee. It was suggested that the individual had
significant emotional and mental health issues. Although the situation was alarming, no one
was injured. Mr. Bowen expressed concern over the broader issue of firearm access and
control.

   6. Council Business

   6.1 Subdivision Ordinance Update SB 174 (2023) HB 476 (2024)

Jay Springer, an attorney with Smith Hartvigsen, addressed the council regarding recent
legislative mandates affecting municipal subdivision codes. He explained that in 2023, the
Utah State Legislature enacted an unfunded mandate requiring all municipalities to update



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 11


their subdivision ordinances to streamline processes by making them more administrative and
removing city councils from individual subdivision approval procedures. Funding for this
initiative was made available in November 2023 through the Department of Workforce
Services, and municipalities are limited to using designated external consultants for this work,
excluding internal staff. Mr. Springer clarified that his current role was separate from his
regular work with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District. He was participating under
the state-funded initiative to assist cities in complying with the new mandate. He outlined that
the changes apply strictly to subdivisions intended for single-family homes, twin homes,
duplexes, and townhomes, and do not affect commercial, industrial, or multifamily
subdivisions. Importantly, local zoning powers remain unchanged. A questionnaire had been
provided to the council to guide decisions on policy options still under local control, such as the
desired level of public involvement, which body would review applications, and whether
reviews would be administrative or involve public hearings. These decisions must ultimately
comply with state law, with implementation deadlines ambiguously defined as either November
1 or December 31, 2025. Mr. Springer emphasized that municipalities could choose to
minimally adjust their codes to comply with only the required changes or could take the
opportunity to significantly revise their procedures. He noted that final ordinances would go
through the usual public process, including a hearing before the planning commission and a
return to the city council for adoption. A tentative public hearing was scheduled for September
26, and Springer expected at least one continuation. In response to questions from Council
Member Catherine Harris, Mr. Springer confirmed that even a one-lot division could qualify as
a subdivision, provided it met certain criteria. He also explained that the questionnaire served
to simplify decision-making by focusing on policy direction rather than detailed legal text. He
offered to provide digital versions of the questionnaire for ease of use.

Council Member David Brems requested that a draft of the proposed ordinance be sent to the
council in advance of any votes, and Mr. Springer confirmed that a redlined version showing
the changes would be made available. Mayor Joe Smolka expressed a preference for
implementing a time limit on application reviews and supported public hearings at the
preliminary stage. Mr. Springer explained that while councils and planning commissions can be
involved in preliminary hearings, final approval must rest with a designated administrative land
use authority that excludes both.

Mr. Springer outlined that municipalities can create multiple land use authorities for various
functions, although most do not due to complexity. He suggested a common practice where
the planning commission reviews conceptual applications, and city staff conducts the final
detailed review and approval, based on a checklist that ensures compliance with all codes and
engineering standards. He also confirmed that the planning commission could not be
designated as the final approving body under the new law. Finally, he reassured the council
that this process would not affect the city’s Municipal Services District or local budget, as the
state would cover consultant fees directly, with invoices routed through the mayor for
confirmation.

   6.2 Reappointment of Emigration Canyon Planning Commission




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 12


Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel stated this item was done last meeting.He also provided an
update on current fire restrictions and addressed procedural concerns regarding their
enactment. He referenced a recommendation from Polly suggesting that the council formally
ratify the fire restrictions, which he still considered sound advice. However, based on his
review of the relevant procedures, he stated that if the restriction document was available
during the meeting, that would constitute sufficient notice. The council could also legally modify
the document at the meeting, whether it originated as a resolution or an ordinance, and still
enforce it effectively. He clarified that, while ratification was not strictly necessary for
enforcement, the council could opt to ratify the restrictions for additional procedural certainty,
and this action could be added to the agenda for the September meeting.

In response to a question from Council Member Catherine Harris, Mr. Platt explained that the
current fire restrictions were distinct from fireworks regulations. He noted that fireworks
restrictions must be enacted annually before May 1, which the city had already done in
compliance with legislative requirements. The current fire restrictions, on the other hand, were
implemented in response to the state's escalation of fire safety measures and remain
enforceable. Platt confirmed that the ordinance is currently valid and could be applied in cases
involving fires caused either intentionally or through negligence.

   6.3 Emigration Canyon Committee Appointments

Nothing to discuss.

   6.4 Bond for Grading Projects

Cameron Platt informed the council that recent changes by the Utah State Legislature had
limited the types of projects for which municipalities could require performance bonds.
Specifically, municipalities can no longer require bonds for residential landscaping and certain
open space or common area improvements. However, the ability to require bonds for grading
and excavation projects remains intact and unaffected by the new legislation. He explained
that the city currently lacks language in its code to require such bonds but, based on research
of similar ordinances in other municipalities, it would be permissible to require a bond equal to
100% of the estimated cost of the grading or excavation work. This bond would serve as a
financial guarantee that the work would be completed according to the submitted plans. Should
the project remain incomplete, the bond would allow the city to either finish or remediate the
work. The estimate could be based on a contractor's bid provided by the property owner, with
the city permitted to include an additional 25% administrative fee to cover inspection,
verification, and any necessary bidding processes. Thus, the total bond requirement could be
up to 125% of the project cost.

Mayor Joe Smolka provided context for the proposal, citing ongoing issues in areas such as
Pinecrest and the Butch property, where roads were graded or excavated without proper
remediation. These instances left the city without a clear mechanism for enforcing corrections.
He emphasized that the intent behind the proposed ordinance was to ensure the city had
recourse in future cases, particularly for substantial projects, without burdening typical
residential property owners undertaking minor landscaping or yard work.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 13


Council Member Catherine Harris expressed support for the bond requirement, referencing a
similar requirement she encountered through her homeowners association and stressing the
value of a proactive approach. She preferred having financial assurance up front rather than
dealing with the consequences of incomplete or unfulfilled project commitments.

Cameron Platt further noted that while the city technically has enforcement options for
incomplete projects, these generally involve upfront costs to the city followed by attempts to
recover funds from the property owner—an effort that may not be successful if the owner lacks
resources, often resulting in property liens. He characterized the bonding approach as a more
secure and preventive measure.

The council reached consensus on moving forward, and Cameron Platt was directed to
prepare a draft ordinance, with guidance to include limitations that would exclude small-scale
residential projects from the bond requirement. He agreed to coordinate with the Municipal
Services District (MSD) to define appropriate thresholds and determine procedural details,
such as bond types (cash or surety) and posting requirements.

Resident Michael Insley inquired whether the draft ordinance would be available for public
review prior to the meeting. Cameron Platt confirmed that all meeting agendas and documents,
including draft ordinances, are posted on the Utah Public Notice Website, where interested
parties can subscribe to Emigration Canyon’s updates and access materials in advance of
council meetings. Mr. Insley expressed interest in reviewing the language, particularly in how it
distinguishes larger projects from smaller residential efforts.

   6.5 Legal Issues

No updates.

   6.6 Ongoing Projects

Mayor Joe Smolka provided an update on several ongoing infrastructure projects and related
budget items. He reported that the lower fin wall project was nearing completion. Most of the
jersey barricades had been removed from the area, though not placed exactly as anticipated;
their final positioning could still be adjusted. The traffic control lights associated with this
project had also been removed, leading to improved traffic flow, leaving only one operational
light in the canyon. The stream remediation work at Pinecrest had also been completed within
the permit's designated timeframe, although some remaining shoulder cleanup would likely be
handled by Public Works or Operations personnel. Mayor Smolka noted that guard rail repairs
throughout the canyon were scheduled to begin in September. This project had been budgeted
approximately three to four years prior but had been delayed due to difficulty securing a
contractor. A new contractor had now been retained, likely due to increased demand, and was
set to commence the long-awaited repairs, which would address damage to guard rails from
collisions or other impacts. The red fin wall project was underway, with a new pipe being
installed between two drainage boxes. Once that work is completed, the focus would shift to
drainage improvements along the same section. The plan includes removing jersey barricades
and potentially the associated traffic light, replacing the signal with flaggers for traffic control.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 14


At one point during this phase, the road would need to be closed to cyclists to allow for
installation of a new drainage line that will cross the road near a large metal telephone pole,
approximately 11 feet from the structure. He also addressed updates regarding bike
infrastructure funding. Preliminary approval had been received for a grant, with funding initially
expected in 2029 but now projected to be available sooner, likely between 2026 and 2027.
Further details would be forthcoming over the following months as planning progresses.
Regarding budgetary matters, He stated that the city had incurred routine expenses, including
attorney and clerk fees and the payment of insurance premiums. Additionally, the city had
released a landscape bond. No other significant budget items were noted at the time.

   6.7 Budget Items

Mayor Smolka reported normal expenses, attorney fees, clerk fees and insurance premiums
He also reported the release of a landscape bond.

   6.8 Consideration of Minutes 2/22/2024 & 4/23/2024

Council Member Harris motioned to approve the minutes as approved, seconded by
Council Member Brems. Vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor.

   7. Council Member Reports

   7.1 Council Member Brems

      (a) Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
   Area (SLVLESA)

Council Member Brems reported on August 15 UPD meeting where Chief Mazuran requested
UPD complete a strategic plan. The city has been asked to forward three priorities to the UPD
as part of that plan. As number one on that list he has solving Emigration Canyon’s unique
problems of speeding and noise, asking for any other items to add to the list from the council.

Council Member Harris noted that education seems to help with both the enforcement and
obeyance of the problems discussed above. She specified including bike education for both
cyclists and drivers, and asked for that to be made a priority.

Detective Dawn Larsen discussed her previous efforts towards yearly education for all
regarding bikes, noting that this year with the split she has been unable to make that happen.
She does still consider it a priority and agrees it is helpful.

Council Member Brems continued by noting that Chief Mazuran indicated things were going
well, and there will be an invitation coming to view their new facilities. They are also working on
updating the UPD Manual. UPD is currently down 31 officers and five civilians, which is a
critical shortage that has created discussions regarding advertising in new places like social
media and billboards. The shortage is currently filled with mandatory overtime for UPD offices,
which will continue until the shortage is resolved. For SLVLESA, there was a vote to explore


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 15


an intent to increase the tax levy. There is a lot of things going on that would affect that levy,
and they are hoping the increase in property valuations will solve that problem. There are
hopes that in the next few years they will be able to increase that levy.

       (b) Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

Nothing to report.

       (c) Community Renewable Energy Program

Nothing to report in terms of progress on that program.

   7.2 Council Member Harris

          (a) Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

Council Member Harris reported that things have been quiet recently, but that will change
coming up on the budget season. Chief Burchette and Tony Hill, CFO for UFSA, discussed
another potential tax increase. She will have more information next month. She is meeting ni
two weeks with Mike Swinzcek and Lloyd from Fire Forestry and State Lands. She met with
Chief Wittison and Chief Case about ongoing Firewise efforts, particularly planning, for the
change in the community wildfire protection plan. There were suggestions that the city would
be better served having a five year plan for fuels projects, rather than the year to year that has
been happening. She will be coordinating with Chief Case and Zach through their volunteer
efforts with Firewise and the Chipping Days.

       (b) Watershed Plan

Council Member Harris stated nothing has happened here with no responses to her inquiries.

   7.3 Council Member Pinon

       (a) Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

Council Member Pinon reported he did not attend the board meeting yesterday due to other
commitments. The notable item there was a small salary adjustment for all of the operators,
which was approved. Regarding the dumpsters down at Sunnydale, you could walk barefoot
inside the area for the last month. The locks are working and the residents of Sunnydale have
been able to use them and are very appreciative. He received a thank you note from the HOA
president there for the council’s help in assisting to control the abuse of the dumpsters. There
are some repairs that need to be done and those have been forwarded to Pam for further
work. He is curious as to whether there is an increased burden in other areas due to those
steps taken, and Mayor Smolka noted an increase at Pinecrest. This led Council Member
Pinon to suggest looking at Pinecrest next. He reminded those in attendance that the
dumpsters are intended for those residents without access to cans because of their physical
location in the canyon.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  16


       (b) Utah Broadband

Nothing to report on grant application efforts.

       (c) Update on Possible High-Density Development

Council Member Pinon spoke with Chrissy Gilmore this afternoon, the previous planning
commission’s meeting minutes have been adopted, and the next step is for the applicant to be
put on the future agenda. All public comment will transfer with application to City Council, and
the application is receiving a negative application from the planning commission to the city
council.

   7.4 Deputy Mayor Hawkes

       (a) Website (www.ecmetro.org)

       (b) CodeRED

       (c) Association of Municipal Governments

       (d) Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

   7.5 Mayor Smolka

       (a) Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Mayor Smolka shared there were some changes to the Personnel Policy, which was adopted.
A new Human Resources employee was hired who will be great. They are preparing to move
to the new building in January. The budget is all done for the coming year, with some odd
financials resulting from this half year cycle. They were also able to finally purchase two new
vehicles, Ford Rangers, which will be seen in the canyon soon.

       (b) Landfill Council

Mayor Smolka stated they met in person, had a lunch and went through the entire budget.
They are staying on target with their budget and are ahead, which means they can put
additional money into the final closure. Nothing odd on the agenda for tomorrow on that
council.

       (c) Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee

Mayor Smolka reported they approved moving forward on several projects, half of the land
widening money is coming from the TIP, with the other half from the STD fund.

       (d) Council of Governments (COG)



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 17


The COG members were invited by Sandy to go to a Real Salt lake game which was fun and a
great networking opportunity.

        (e) Legislative Update

He reminded the council to begin using their .gov emails as required by the new law passed.
November 4 is the Wasatch Choice Meeting for elected officials from 4-6pm at the Millcreek
City Hall; this is very worthwhile for this council to attend, as they explain a lot of the projects
coming up and share education regarding those projects so the councils aren’t surprised when
they come up.

Council Member Harris thanked Chief Case for offering to do a retreat, and she will get more
details from him regarding those details.


    8. Citizen Public Input

There were no public comments.

    9. Other Announcements

None.

    10. Future Emigration Canyon Council Agenda Items

Cameron Platt mentioned questions about special events and what can be done to funnel
those through the city better than when it’s done through the county. He is looking into whether
there is someone at the MSD that can handle those instead, or use the MSD to filter requests.
They will need to alter their code as well to accommodate these changes.

Mayor Smolka got an email about billboards, there will need to be an item to discuss billboards
being banned in the city.

The council discussed the potential for the new noise control equipment and potential
purchasing in the future.

    11. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

        (a) Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental
        Health of an Individual.

        (b) Pending or Reasonably Imminent Litigation.

        (c) Purchase, Exchange, or Lease of Real Property.

        (d) Deployment of Security Personnel


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 18



There was no need for a closed session.

    12. Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Council Member Brems moved to adjourn the meeting. Council Member Harris
seconded the motion. Vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor; Council Member Hawkes was
absent from the vote.

Mayor Smolka declared the meeting to be adjourned at 9:01pm.


The Emigration Canyon City Council approved the August 27, 2024 Emigration Canyon
City Council Meeting Minutes on May 27, 2025:




                                                          Joe Smolka, Mayor


ATTEST:




Diana Baun, City Recorder




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                EMIGRATION CANYON
                CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                April 22, 2025, 7:00 PM
                UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                                 EMIGRATION CANYON
                            CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES

Council Members Present:
Joe Smolka, Mayor (via Zoom)
Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
Robert Pinon, Council Member
David Brems, Council Member
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Staff Present:
Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Dawn Larsen, Unified Police Department
Bryan Case, Unified Fire Authority
Chief Jason Mazuran, Unified Police Department (via Zoom)

Others Present:
Steve Proper, Nate Martinez, TJ Winger, Michael, Nick, Lanette’s iPhone, Courtney Flint,
Naomi Keeson, Jason Klaupass, Lisa Fitzgerald, Maybrook Townsend

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

Mayor Joe Smolka, presiding, called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM and determined a
quorum was present.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

3. Recognize Visiting Officials

4. Public Comments

Naomi Keeson – I live in the Skycrest neighborhood with my husband and my daughter, we
moved there this past summer. We love living in Emigration Canyon, we love our
neighborhood and feel super lucky. Since this fall, I think you’re all aware of the culvert
replacement project in the Skycrest neighborhood as well as two other locations. Since this

                            EMIGRATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
                   MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
             COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                             COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2


summer we have been coordinating with the county, now MSD, on that project. We obtained
the 50% design plans and made some comments. They recently sent us their 75% design
plans last week which we appreciate they incorporate some of our comments into that.
However, we do have some remaining concerns that I wanted to communicate to the mayor
and council and make sure you are aware. The first couple are a little more specific, and then I
think there is a concern that I think some of the other folks are here to talk about. On the 75%
design plans, based on the schedule proposed by the MSD, they would like to start
construction in August. Our first concern is the culvert impacts four properties directly. They
would require a permitted easement for the culvert itself and temporary construction
easements for the construction footprint. Those would require a survey, appraisal, easement
documents and negotiation, and based on the temporary construction easements we will
probably be dammed as needed to cure as part of the easement negotiation process. That
process has not begun, and it is a fairly lengthy process, so our concern is trying to understand
where that fits within this timeline. The second concern is the Spring Glenn Water Company,
main line, of which we have a representative here from if you have questions about that. She
has previously communicated with the county, MSD, about the existence of this water line.
Reviewing the plans, we do not see it shown on the plan set, so that is a concern. We also
don’t see any laterals to the homes, so we don’t know where those are. Those are some
concerns we have there. We have some minor concerns which I will leave off the table for
now. The major concern that affects our whole neighborhood is access. Access to 13 homes in
the Skycrest neighborhood is only across Skycrest Lane, there is no secondary access. This
project would propose to remove the existing culvert, which is about five feet in diameter. That
is a pretty major undertaking. Once that is pulled out, they will put in a precast concrete box
culvert which will require a fairly large trench, around the area of about 50 feet wide. Currently
in the plans the only information provided about access in the notes says that the contractor
will provide access to the residents in non-working hours by backfilling and plating the
trenches. You cannot backfill and trench an excavation area this size. Clearly this is a concern
for everyone who lives there. I think about the burden this places on the residents to access
their property, but also in terms of safety for emergency services and those types of things. We
would like to have a conversation with MSD. To my knowledge the only person that they have
had that conversation with is my husband and myself because we have reached out with our
concerns. I would like to see them coordinate with the entire neighborhood to help resolve this
issue and hopefully come to a solution that is agreeable for everyone.

Jason Klaupass – My wife just spoke and I think she covered the large number of points that
have us worried. I myself am an Engineer that does civil engineering work, so I am familiar
with the work that needs to be performed to replace the culvert. Just looking at it I think maybe
our absolute two highest concerns are can we get some communication out on this, or people
just assume we’re going to hand over a temporary easement. We would like to know what it’s
going to take, for how long, how it’s going to be repaired. Also, just the access issues which I
think are pretty obvious and I think Naomi already covered really well. We have got some
people that I don’t think would be able to walk down the trench and walk up, and where are we
going to park, how are we going to get trash out. I guess, based on the speed of some of the
retaining walls that went up in the canyon, I am a little concerned that if there aren’t any
incentives or disincentives in place for the contractor they could treat this as filler work that we
don’t see a regular consistent effort, that the work would be ramped up in a timely manner.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3



Lisa Fitzgerald – also in the Spring Glen neighborhood. The person from the Spring Glen
Water Company covered all the concerns about the culvert, but one of the other projects that I
had a meeting with back on December 9th was Rocky Mountain Power burying the lines up the
canyon. One of the things we discussed with them was running a line over the culvert. So, I
asked them at the time since the county, the MSD, Rocky Mountain Power, and myself were
all in the meeting I said are there any plans to coordinate so we don’t have this torn up and our
access limited twice in the same summer. They said no, we do not plan to coordinate, if by the
grace of god it happens, it happens. There is no plan for them to coordinate, so our concern
again is it’s not going to be as big as actually replacing the culvert, but with gas lines, two
water lines, phone lines, power lines, to get all these things in it just seems so logical to do
them all at once. I have contacted them again and have not heard anything back, but just
wanted to get that out there that these projects seem to go together.

Council Member Catherine Harris addressed the public, sharing that Rocky Mountain Power
has been sending emails and seems to be very interested in reaching out to people. They are
having a community meeting here on May 6 and she encouraged everyone to come to that
meeting.

Ms. Fitzgerald has not gotten those emails. She said it was interesting because she was
invited to the original meeting but now she is apparently not on the invite list.

Mayor Joe Smolka noted this is a meeting for the entire community, not just a specific area.
This came up in the last few weeks and they are working on doing a mailing to all the billing
addresses. A member of the audience spoke up and said they received their notice today. He
gave some basic details on the four projects being proposed at this time, including the
information on their funding.

Council Member Harris noted that information will also be in upcoming newsletters that are
sent out.

Maybrook Townsend – I live in The Oaks with my two kids and husband. I know that the
school board was here to meet with you last meeting, but I just wanted to share some of my
concerns about potential closing and the study, how it is impacting families in the canyon. You
may know, but Eastwood is the 10th ranked elementary school in Utah, the third in the district.
It has a strong PTA, parent involvement, it is a STEM school, it is going through Kindness
Certification. It has events like art night, dance fest, field day, and it’s not a failing school by
any means. It’s not test scores, it’s not anything but population. The problem is that it’s a small
school, and that’s what the district sees as a problem. But when you look statistically at how
it’s actually functioning there is no problem with it. It is negative for our community for a lot of
reasons. This is the same district that just closed three schools on the west side in 2023, and
they also closed Western Hills Elementary in 2024. Since all those school closings there have
been no follow-up, no statistics on how the students are doing, how the parents feel, what has
gone on with the communities, any potential problems with overcrowding, nothing has been
asked, nothing has been told, there is no information and that just happened last year. I have
worried that our unique location and our smaller population gives us a quieter voice and little



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


protection in this matter. Even though it has been said that the studies about population in
elementary schools, Julie Jackson, who is our area board rep, said that it could change our
district boundaries for middle and high school. The district has made a lot of moves that is
pulling students away from Eastwood, such as having special programs, none of which have
been awarded to Eastwood. It also has a lot of school choice going on, some of that is bringing
students there, some of it is taking away. Currently, I just heard as of this week they are cutting
their preschool program in half, so half of that students that might attend Eastwood they have
already cut, even though enrollment was just a week ago, so I don’t think it’s really based on
numbers. I worry that the district is doing these things and not really looking at the big picture
and how it’s impacting families. Things that we have to be concerned about are bussing costs,
and the length of bus rides for our students who live in the canyon. Any school would be
further away than Eastwood is.

TJ Winger – I wanted to add my comment to those given already, but first thanks to the
council for all that you do to take care of our canyon and keep us a strong and well recognized
place to live. I recognize your efforts are not easy, and thank you for what you do. Regarding
our lane and the culvert, just wanted to echo the comments that had been shared previously, I
think our concern is for life safety and a complete closure without vehicle access would be
difficult. I think you lead out the first world problems of having to walk across the bridge, and
address the other concerns of life safety which is really fire access. I understand the reasoning
for wanting to do the project in August, when water flows are the lowest. Seeing the winter that
we had, our fire awareness will be quite high in August, so if we are in a situation, heaven
forbid, like California and not have fire access to our side of that canyon that could be
catastrophic to those homes on that side of the stream. Also, it sounds as thought maybe not
planned, just assumed, that 30ish cars will park on the street side of the stream, but I’m not
sure if you’re aware but plenty of those people work from home, plenty work swing shifts,
plenty work in different way, so getting 30 cars to park on the area that’s there is probably not
going to work because the cars aren’t going to be gone during normal business hours, some
percentage will be there and to get dump trucks in and out or to have trailers unloaded or
equipment brought in, or staging, is going to be a real challenge if that’s the case. If people like
Averys will want to put both of their cars on the other side of the stream, that’s 1500 feet for
Bob and Francine to walk from their house down, and about 100 feet in elevation grade for 80
year old people that’s just not an option. Then you start thinking about we have probably three
families in the neighborhood that within a moment’s notice could need an ambulance just
because of their age, so emergency care is a real thing. I think the biggest concern for me
personally is just life safety with the approach of no cars going across there. I am just being a
huge advocate for making sure cars can access across that during construction. I realize that’s
probably a bigger pain, having two phases with a lower half and upper half, which is dollars
and time, but it’s also life safety and it would be my recommendation that that life safety trump
a few dollars for scheduled time.

Steve Proper (Comcast) – you may recall I had the opportunity to meet with you back at the
March meeting with regards to the State Utah Broadband Center’s grant process for identifying
unserviceable areas in communities and providing some assistance to providers to being
broadband service to areas in communities that are either unserved or underserved. You might
also recall the state has identified over 200 areas through Emigration Canyon that may qualify



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  5


for that. Also, you all were gracious enough to approve a nonexclusive letter of support to
Comcast and other providers, as we make our application process to the state. When I met
with you the due date was April 9, and that has been pushed out 2 weeks and the due date is
now this Friday. As part of that application process we would certainly like to include that letter
of support as we make our application. I think we sent some sample letter that other
communities have done. I will underscore again this is nonexclusive, because there are other
providers interested as well and it will be up to the state to determine who receives the grant.

Mayor Smolka thanked Steve, noting that he had his letters and that they will be addressing
them later in the agenda.

Council Member David Brems noted that they’d all like Fiber to their homes, and asked what is
being done about that.

Mr. Proper responded that is what this would do, this brings gigabit symmetrical speeds over
fiber to the homes. In addition to that, there was a presentation with more about the program
that indicated they were guaranteeing internet service rates through five years as a part of that
application.

Michael Greer – local resident on Skycrest Lane, which is pretty much right next to the culvert
that wants to be fixed. I was wondering mainly about if you guys were planning on staging
machines or trucks or anything there, or other cars. I have very different working hours than a
lot of other people and we have four cars that park there, and making sure that all of us have
easy access to get in and out whenever we need to go to work.

5. Stakeholder Reports

   A. Unified Police Department

Detective Dawn Larsen reported 47 calls for service for the month of March, 14 reports were
written, and we issued 19 citations. Fifteen of those 19 citations were for speeding. There was
a big bike crash where one of the bicyclists was going too fast on the upper canyon above
Pinecrest and went over the guardrail, transported to the hospital in fair condition. We towed
three cars this month for exhibition of speed. Has been talking to a bunch of commercial
dogwalkers, and most of the ones originally spoken to had 10 dogs. She has seen return
dogwalkers, and the ones she spoke with previously are coming back with the six dogs. The
law is that as long as you have a business license you can walk six dogs total, as long as it’s
not on forest service, an open trail. She has spoken with them about cleaning up after
themselves and they stated they are, she just makes sure they understand they need to watch
where those dogs are using the restroom and they seem to be paying more attention. I also
saw a lady walking 14 dogs, but she actually bought 13 acres so she can walk her 14 dogs on
her private property. Investigated a complaint about a helicopter delivering an ATV to some
property, she hiked up to the property and did some investigation up there and let the proper
people know what’s going on, and that is in the MSD’s hands as of now. There is a new officer
who started April 6. Officer Wilson moved up to Brighton, so Emigration now has Officer
Curley. He is in training for the next few months, but they have coverage on Saturday and



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  6


Sunday filled in with different officers who signed up to cover those shifts. Mondays will be
empty but Millcreek will fill in if there are any calls in the canyon. Millcreek Canyon is actually
starting their project May 1. They are closing the upper canyon and she shared a handout with
information (Attachment A), they are closing their upper gate, which will not open. They will be
doing construction for two years. The only way to access that upper canyon is through the
Pipeline Trail, the road is closed off.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes asked what speed equals impounding the car.

Detective Larsen said it depends on the situation. The areas they towed this past month were
40 mph zones, and those cars were going almost 100 mph.

   B. Unified Fire Authority

Chief Bryan Case reported seven total calls for UFA in the canyon, including a motorcycle
accident, three false alarms with cancellations for Station 119, two public assists with no
medical care provided, and one unique fire response that came in at approximately 450 N East
Canyon Road. This was a report of a fire sight that had been started on the roadside, when
crews arrived fire was out but they could see where the fire had been set. The area was
soaked and cleared of embers before clearing the scene. Still working with the MSD on
communicating with working with the correct council people regarding evacuation zones. The
CEMP has some tabletop exercises coming up, and they are still waiting on confirmation
through the MSD on the up canyon and down canyon temporary evacuation holding zones.
Once established, that will come to the mayor through the MSD and they can move the
process further alone. May 6 Rocky Mountain Power hosted event is moving forward, they
have Chief Burchette and a few others expected to be in attendance. May 17 Firewise event is
still in planning and going forward. He has been working with Council Member Hawkes in
updating and providing UFA fire safety material for the website. Related to the tabletop
exercises for council training, he has been in contact with Salt Lake County Emergency
Management and a few others to find out about the NIMS training for elected officials. He is
trying to push that through the MSD since there are elected officers from multiple cities
involved that need that training. He is waiting to hear back on fire danger signage, and
confirmed that Chipper Days will be held the weeks of July 7 and July 14, a sign up should be
coming.

Brian Johansen – helping coordinate the chipping program, and he wanted to discuss getting
information out to the community. In the past he was told there was a mailing list, but after the
ECC was disbanded he created a notice, giving it to Council Member Hawkes to send out as
an email blast that came together with the Firewise event. He has a template he could use to
put that together again to send out, and he will be at the event again to collect information.

Council Member Harris shared she is having a meeting with Mike Swinsick with Chief
Whittison as well. They will be discussing the process for getting more people qualified to do
property assessments.

Chief Case indicated he has the date on his calendar.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  7



Council Member Hawkes brought up the tabletop exercise and coordinating those dates. She
asked the council to think about their schedules so it can be discussed later in the meeting.

   C. Salt Lake County Animal Services

Gary Bowen was absent from the meeting but did send information included in the published
packet regarding Salt Lake County Animal Services.

6. Project Updates

Mayor Smolka shared the following:
  - Rocky Mountain Power’s start date is May 5 to begin just above the fire station with the
      underground work. They will work in 15oo foot segments to keep the traffic disruptions
      to a minimum. They will make their way up the canyon. No start date for the two
      projects on Little Mountain. Report of no funding on the lower part of the canyon for
      underground work.
  - The culvert leak at the bus turnaround in Pinecrest is complete, with the exception of
      picking up steel plates and cones.

Council Member Hawkes asked for copies of culvert plans for Skycrest.

7. Consent Agenda - None

8. Presentation Items

   A. Engineering Standards

Tamaran Woodland reviewed her prepared presentation (Attachment B) regarding the
proposed updates to engineering standard drawings.

The council discussed a previous moratorium for completed roads and potential expiration
dates.

Mayor Smolka indicated this only applied to Pinecrest and Killian’s for between one to two
more years.

Council Member Harris added that was put in place for when the main road was repaved along
its entirety so people wouldn’t come in and dig smaller areas out of a brand new road.
However, she believes it applies to any new road for the first three years, beyond that they
would go with the standards proposed by Ms. Woodland.

Ms. Woodland shared what other municipalities are doing to comply with the recently legislated
changes on her presentation (Attachment B), noting that APWA is accepted across the state
and sharing that Lizel Allen, MSD Engineering Director, did call various other cities to find out
how they were addressing the mill and overlay issue. She shared that West Valley City has its



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  8


own standard, Salt Lake City requires it on new roads for seven years and repaved roads for
three years, which is fairly close to Emigration’s current code. Engineering’s recommendation
is something similar, that they accept APWA Plan 255, but base it on years. If they know they
will be doing a project within two years, they would not require the mill and overlay knowing the
road would be torn up anyways. In addition, they also want to base the decision on the age of
the road, with the proposed standards presented. This is not up for a vote tonight, this
information is just for the council’s consideration. She asked the council to send her any
change they would like to see so she can include those options in her presentation when she
returns in May to adopt these drawings.

Council Member Hawkes asked if it was within the two years, would that just be a cold patch or
something similar, to fill the space until the road is redone.

Ms. Woodland responded that if the road was over seven years old they would not require the
mill and overlay, just the T-patch. Any work done would have to be permitted by the MSD, with
an inspector on site to ensure the project is completed to industry standards.

The council discussed issues the city has had in the past with damaged roads after completed
projects, and Ms. Woodland suggested possibly requiring mill and overlay regardless on the
main road if the council desires.

Council Member Robert Pinon believes that a similar issue was brought before the council
recently, where they addressed the width of patches to repair the road after smaller
connections. Council Member Hawkes noted that in that circumstance it fell within the
moratorium and they were required to go from the center line to the edge of the road, which
was extensive and costly for the small project. She indicated that specific project was given an
exception, and Council Member Pinon them asked if the council was being asked to revise this
requirement for any road cuts.

Ms. Woodland reminded the council she is only asking them to think about what is being
presented tonight, and ensure that any suggestions still match their city code. For the patches,
the current suggestion is the 15 feet, which matches the city code, or they change the code to
accommodate a different solution.

Council Member Hawkes asked if they could go outside of the APWA and other industry
recommendations to have their own requirements.

Ms. Woodland responded yes, and indicated that in the packet, Emigration Canyon’s specific
details were included in the booklet. The general plan indicates the city is adopting the industry
standards as updated throughout the years, but anything the council wants included that is
different from the current industry standards indicated would just need to be included in the
booklet for the city to detail the exceptions.

Council Member Hawkes shared her personal preference, noting she feels like they should not
use curb and gutter in certain design standards in the canyon because it’s a natural




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                   9


environment. They should be opting for the creation of swells, retention/detention, whatever
works best for the location.

Ms. Woodland responded that curb and gutter was pulled from their suggestions, as were
sidewalks. The storm drain is still included because there are still drainage issues where they
have to get the runoff from one side of the road to another. She then offered to look into other
more natural options for the council to review. It is her opinion that the grate inlets still apply in
Emigration Canyon, due to drainage over the road being needed.

Council Member Harris urged the MSD and the members of the council to be driven by the
overriding philosophy that it’s a lot easier to do things right the first time, than come back. If the
standards seem more stringent, it’s because they don’t have the money to do multiple repairs
and they want to do it correctly the first time. She is okay with more stringent standards, as
long as they make sense.

Council Member Pinon asked about the details for width of cuts and similar topics, as they
were not listed out in the booklet.

Ms. Woodland indicated those measurements would be taken from the city’s code. The council
then brought up the idea of having fiber installed and how they would deal with that, noting that
it could be done on the side of the road.

Council Member Pinon responded that topic with solutions has come up in many meetings he
has attended, and that they can bore underneath to get materials under the road as well. He
discussed when they had a fiber line installed 4-5 years ago and they bored underneath the
shoulder on the north side of the road, rather than in the asphalt.

Ms. Woodland believes that for these situations, the widths required should be called out per
the city’s code, so if the code is changed in the future the details would automatically update in
the engineering requirements. She indicated she would update that section to call out the code
before returning in May.

Council Member Harris also asked to have a mechanism for someone to approach the city for
a variance if desired.

Attorney Cameron Platt noted that opening that door now means they almost have to figure out
how to do what they want by variance. Variance opportunities should be seen as something
extremely valuable for applicants, rather than something they are entitled to.

Ms. Woodland concluded by pointing out that the new standards state “The City Engineer may
approve exception” which would be Lizel Allen or Ms. Woodland currently. If the council would
prefer the appropriate MSD staff not have that authority, they need to let her know so that can
be stricken and any exceptions will have to come before the council.

The council agreed that they would rather have applicants bring those issues before them to
be heard, and that will be adjusted in the paperwork.


      Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 10


Mayor Smolka asked if Ms. Woodland had any updates on the bicycle lane.

Ms. Woodland responded UDOT is the administrator of the grant, and they are asking for the
MSD and city to get the project moving. However, she is not sure if she understands the path
forward because her understanding from Tolin’s last presentation that there are a lot of
concerns about moving forward with the environmental documents. He put together a memo
signed by Lizel that went through the details of the environmental document and the process,
and asked if the council had reviewed that. Mayor Smolka indicated he had received it and
forwarded it to everyone on the council prior to the meeting tonight. She then noted that Tolin
has been in discussions with UDOT about the process, and there are two processes being
considered. She indicated that the mayor had specifically requested an RFP be done, but
UDOT typically uses the RPLOQ (request for pool letter of qualifications) process. UDOT is
willing to do the RFP process if that’s the city’s desire. Tolin also outlined all the additions
requested by the council, including more public outreach and meetings, and they are willing to
include that as long as they don’t overextend the total of the grant. If the total is overextended,
then those costs would be the responsibility of the city to provide the difference. She doesn’t
see that happening, but it really depends on the length of the environmental process.

Mayor Smolka indicated that the council’s main concern isn’t the name of the process (RFP
versus RPLOQ), it’s that public engagement is included in the process with all the studies
previously completed.

Council Member Hawkes indicated she had two additional traffic studies in include in that
process, and she will find those and forward them on.

Naomi Keeson, a member of the public, asked to speak out of turn. Her understanding is that
this project is being done with Federal Highway Funds from the WFRC, which means you
cannot use those funds for the environmental process; that is a WFRC policy. They can be
used for the remainder of the project, but they’ll have to advertise the environmental document
process through the MSD and then as part of that environmental process, when a project has
potential for controversy, it is offered an opportunity for public engagement.

Ms. Woodland referenced the CatX project being doing in Magna, noting that has to paid for by
the municipality. However, UDOT is saying that this is included in the grant. She added that
she can’t speak to the differences between the two projects, allowing the difference in fund
usage.

Ms. Keeson stated she is the Senior Environmental Program Manager for UDOT, so she thinks
there is some miscommunication, but she is happy to, in a personal and not entirely
professional but helpful capacity, offer some clarification, but it is true that WFRC funds cannot
be used for the environmental process and it’s true that this will be done as a categorical
exclusion. She has talked to UDOT Region 2 about the potential for controversy on the project
and noted they are aware.

Ms. Woodland indicated she would check into everything discussed tonight and get back with
the council at a future date.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 11


Council Member Pinon asked about the drawings for the Skycrest culvert project. He shared
his frustration getting information from the public when the council hasn’t received anything. It’s
difficult to sympathize or understand what’s coming up when the council isn’t given that
information to review. He also asked if the MSD is doing the construction, or contracting it out
to a third party?

Ms. Woodland indicated her understanding is that the project is large enough that it’s being
done through a third party, but she prefaced that by saying she is still new and could be
incorrect.

Council Member Pinon noted that when projects are put out to bid, the contractors can build
that project however they choose. However, in this instance, he believes it is important for the
council to understand the sequence, the means and methods, so the council can be educated
as well as to whether or not the successful bid is appropriate. He thinks there could be a few
extra steps for the neighborhood and council that would be prudent to understand how things
will be built. As TJ asked, are they going to do the east half and west half separately, and if so,
that’s extremely complicated to shore up because that pipe is 20 feet down. How will they keep
homes protected, maintain access back and forth. If it’s a two day project, that’s great but can
they put residents in a hotel for those two nights so they don’t have to use their homes. He just
wants to understand more, in a detailed manner, how that contractor is going to execute the
project. He feels it is important in this instance to recognize what that process is going to look
like.

Ms. Woodland will plan on speaking more to that on the 27th when she returns to discuss the
standards, and they will be addressed separately.

Council Member Hawkes added that the bid also needs to include the details covering the
resident concerns like staging and sequence of events.

Ms. Woodland shared as a form of recommendation, that Magna Main just went out to bid, and
for the first time the MSD did a two-step process for bidding that included prequalifying. There
were seven contractors that submitted, and only four were prequalified, which means she is
confident that the low bidder is a qualified and competent contractor.

Council Member Pinon said that doesn’t tell anyone how the contractor is going to build out the
project, that that’s really important in this case.

   B. Firewise and Chipping, Email Communication

Mayor Smolka indicated that Chief Case already addressed the Firewise and Chipping
updates at the beginning of the meeting, before leaving.

Council Member Hawkes asked to address concerns with communication, noting that an email
went out asking if the council had the ability to send out an email for Firewise as a save the
date. She sent a draft newsletter and indicated she wanted to include anything that would be
beneficial in terms of Firewise. She feels that Chipper Days information needs to be included,



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 12


and she worked with Chief Case to get that information that was included in that newsletter.
She doesn’t have an updated email list and will add a section for residents to sign up to
receive an email newsletter in the future, but it’s really important if they are going to use a
newsletter for communication that they get a majority of the community involved. She is
suggesting for the upcoming Firewise that they send out an email, a CodeRED message, and
perhaps a mailer or doorhanger to get the information out since the email list is less than 300
and CodeRED doesn’t cover the entire canyon.

Council Member Harris shared her desired additions, to include something about the upcoming
election and declaring candidacy. She also suggested using the information section of
CodeRED to push signing up for the newsletter.

Council Member Pinon noted that at the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) they
discussed using email as a communication method. He asked if the MSD supports
communities with any kind of mailing list accessibility, and City Recorder Diana Baun
responded that they do not. The MSD helps cities with their websites if they request it and we
have access to them, man of which have that capability and have had Communications
Manager Maridene Alexander set those up for those communities to use, as well as helping
advertise those newsletter sign-up opportunities.

Council Member Hawkes noted that her website she created does support that, but it’s only as
good as the list of residents they can gather.

Council Member Harris noted that the email she received from that test was from a no-reply
address, so she wasn’t even sure who it came from, which was a little confusing.

Council Member Harris noted that after sending it and realizing that she corrected it.

Council Member Pinon went back to discussing the training from the ULCT, who indicated that
email newsletters and lists are the main way municipalities should communicate with their
residents. It is as effective as a website, but they did caution against using social media as a
way to communicate because there is a lot of back and forth required. The city and council
need to present, pushing that information to ensure everyone on the list receives it. He agrees
that using an email list is the best option they can build right now, ideally not having to print a
newsletter at some point in the future, making it all electronic, which could also save money in
budgeting.

Council Member Hawkes suggested contacting neighborhoods, HOAs, etc., to try and grow
those addresses as well. She has not added it yet, but there will be a button eventually on the
website residents can click to add their email to that database, as well as links to current and
previous newsletters for residents to click on.

Diana Baun noted that according to the Utah State Code, in the next week or so the city is
required to post the election notices she will be publishing on their website and encouraged
Council Member Hawkes to watch her email for those notices prior to May 1st to ensure the city
stays in compliance with the state requirements.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  13




   C. Utah Wellbeing Survey Project Results

Courtney Flint reviewed the Utah Wellbeing Survey Project Results as published and printed in
the meeting’s supporting documents.

Council Member Pinon expressed his appreciation that residents appear to be happy, loving
where they live, protecting and wanting to do the best for nature and that physical outdoor
lifestyle that many residents crave. This report is helpful to the council because it helps identify
where some potential blind spots might be, and areas they can work on including issues with
wellness to be more connected and try to figure out the council’s role to hear the community
out. This now creates a baseline the council can use to improve moving forward. It’s no
surprise that noise, traffic and cycling are the issues that need continued focus. Ms. Flint didn’t
mention it, but these survey services are provided for free and they accept charitable
donations that the city can budget for with the next survey.

Ms. Flint indicated they are working on a funding model for 2026, as funding has become a
challenge, and they are hoping to do a survey in 2026 at no cost or a minimal cost. She will
keep in touch with the city and hope to have things figured out by the summertime. The ideal
situation is communities continue doing the surveys for multiple years so they can then collect
and share comparison data, which is also very important to review changes and see how
things change over time.

Council Member Pinon shared the donations requested were $500 for small communities and
$1000 for larger communities, which he believes is money well spent in the budget for next
year.

9. Council Business

   A. Dark Sky License Plate Initiative

Council Member Harris has been unable to reach her contacts with the organization promoting
this. She believes they need 500 different people to commit to getting a Dark Sky License
Plate, and they are short on that number. She tried calling the DMV but wasn’t able to get any
additional information. If she gets any further information she will share that with the council at
that time. This is an initiative that began in 2018 which didn’t gain a lot of traction. It looked like
it might get some support from the Utah Legislature, but it didn’t get enough support to warrant
funds back in 2021.

   B. Resolution R2025-04, Adopting the FY 2026 Tentative Budget

Mayor Smolka shared that they reviewed the budget in the workshop meeting, noting there are
some questions from the council, but he doesn’t believe those questions should prohibit the
council from adopting the tentative budget since they can still make changes before adopting
the final budget. They can also make changes after that adoption point by doing a budget




      Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 14


amendment, which has been done before. He briefly reviewed the discussions from the
workshop meeting for Council Member Pinon who was not in attendance at that meeting.

Council Member Hawkes asked about the possibility of getting more detailed information in a
simpler format for them to review prior to the next meeting.

Diana Baun shared that there is additional information available from the last meeting where
Stewart Okobia addressed questions, including the numbers from previous years for
comparison. She also recommended the council members contact Stewart Okobia with any
specific questions they have before the next meeting to allow staff time to compile additional
information if needed. She also noted that council members don’t need to wait until the next
meeting to ask their questions, they can contact Stewart directly to address their concerns and
he would be happy to have those discussions.

Council Member Brems moved to approve Resolution R2025-04, Adopting the FY 2026
Tentative Budget. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote was 5-0,
unanimous in favor.

Diana Baun indicated this approval would trigger the public hearing notice for the May 27th
meeting, and that will be on the agenda to approve the FY 2026 budget.

   C. Resolution R2025-05, Designating an Alternate Attendee for MSD Board Meetings
Council Member Brems moved to approve Resolution R2025-05, Designating Council
Member Hawkes as the Alternate Attendee for MSD Board Meetings. Council Member
Harris seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   D. Resolution R2025-06, A Resolution Finding Hazardous Environmental Conditions and
      Restriction of Fireworks Within Emigration Canyon
Cameron Platt gave a brief overview of the fireworks restrictions, noting they are the same as
previous years. The council discussed the reasons for having renewal this every year, as they
are in a wildfire high risk area, and Mr. Platt explained it’s due to the Utah Legislature requiring
it if a community wishes to restrict fireworks more than the state minimum.
Council Member Harris moved to approve Resolution R2025-06, Fireworks Restrictions
in Emigration Canyon. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion.
Mr. Platt explained that after June 1 the updated maps will be available on UFA’s website for
the public to review, all of Emigration Canyon will be red or restricted.
Council Member Harris asked about other restrictions on open burns, welding, etc., and
whether those have to be renewed annually as well.
Mr. Platt responded that if the council wishes those rules to be different than the state
restrictions or UFA’s restrictions, it would have to be renewed. The code already restricts open
burning and many other ignition sources, but if they want to go further than the current code
there would be a separate process to change that. If the council wants those restrictions to




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 15


stay the same for every year, it should be put in the code. But when they are implemented
during times of extreme risk, they can be done as a Resolution.
Council Member Harris requested this discussion be on the next agenda so they can ensure
they have everything covered.
Mayor Smolka noted that he doesn’t believe they have had to do the additional restrictions
annually, and that they typically wait until UFA and the state release their recommendations
before adding additional restrictions beyond the city code.
Chief Case shared that he has given Council Member Hawkes the updated information for the
city website, and he encouraged everyone to review UFA’s Memo 24-054 issued to all
personnel regarding recreational and open burning fires. That was also shared with Council
Member Hawkes. He also referenced the 2024 Emigration Fireworks letter that also came from
UFA to the Emigration Canyon community, citing Utah Code as justification for restricting
fireworks. He has spoken with the new fire marshal in regards to what has been done in the
past and he is checking on that previously issued information regarding renewal and issuance.
He also shared there was information released in July of 2024 from the State Department of
Natural Resources that had an order number and came with information stating Fire
Restrictions, Stage 1, were in effect. He acknowledged there is information that comes from
UFA and from the state.
Mayor Smolka asked to bring the conversation back to the motion currently on the table for the
fireworks restrictions. Vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor. He then asked Council Member
Harris to work with the city’s legal counsel as well as Chief Case to prepare those resolutions
for the next meeting.
Mr. Platt asked if the council had a preference on whether those proposed resolutions coincide
with the state’s restrictions or if they would like to look at changing the city code.
Mayor Smolka noted that from past experience where the severity of fire danger fluctuates, if
this is done annually it allows for adjustments as things change.
Council Member Hawkes suggested adopting the state standards to avoid having to remember
every year.

   E. Special Events Policy
Cameron Platt reviewed the previous discussion last fall, as well as the draft policy included in
the supporting documents for tonight’s meeting. They will have to coordinate with MSD Staff
for implementation but he wanted to bring this to the council and get feedback before that time.
Council Member Hawkes asked about filming and Mr. Platt clarified that would be included
under the entertainment category of permits.
Mr. Platt discussed bike gathering in the canyon and their disruptive nature when not when the
city is unaware, this permit would allow the city to issue civil code violations and require
permits.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 16


Council Member Pinon noted the previous discussions on numbers of participants in bike
events and whether that was 20 or 50.
Detective Larsen noted that she is not ticketing groups larger than 20, but she does stop them
for impeding the flow of traffic when present. The Tuesday bike group claims they are not
holding an event and it’s less than 50.
Mr. Platt noted 50 is an arbitrary number adopted from the county’s code, but that can be
adjusted for the city.
Council Member Pinon asked to discuss the best number allowed for bike groups in the
canyon, and Detective Larsen noted there are some organizers who always obtain permits
despite the numbers involved, and that is very helpful with educating bikers on appropriate
behaviors. However, for the ones that don’t, it’s much easier for her to enforce the rules with
20 people rather than 50.
After some discussion the council agreed to separate bike event permits and require that for
more than 20 participants for safety purposes. If they have more than 20 participants and don’t
want to get a special event permit, they will be required to break everyone up into smaller
groups of 20 or less. They briefly discussed motorcycle groups, and it was decided that the 50
participant number was appropriate since they can maintain the speed and stay with the flow
of traffic, rather than impeding it.

   F. Update Current Fee Schedule to Include Candidate Filing Fee

Diana Baun reviewed the reason for amending the city’s current fee schedule to include the
$50 candidate filing fee previously charged by the county. It will then also be included in the
proposed fee schedule at the next meeting.

Council Member Harris moved to amend the current Fee Schedule to include the $50
Declaration of Candidacy Fee. Council Member Brems seconded the motion; vote was
5-0, unanimous in favor.

10. City Attorney Updates

No updates at this time.

11. Council Member Reports

   A. Council Member Brems

       1. Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
          Area (SLVLESA)

UPD is working on their budget. Chief Mazuran has presented a strategic plan being reviewed
and Council Member Brems will be reviewing that. He would like to see a meeting with each of
the communities to discuss their unique problems, with potential solutions. They have been



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                   17


looking at compensation as part of the budgeting process, encouraged labor group to work on
their compensation request before the new law goes into effect outlawing collective bargaining.
They have also been reviewing medical benefits which have increased, as part of the
budgeting process. SLVLESA is dealing with Salt Lake County’s withdrawal and looking at tax
forecasting, noting there will be future work needed with the legislature on increasing taxes. He
discussed fund balances for both the cities and SLVLESA, and how there needs to be a
consistent policy across the board for fund balances.

        2. Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

They are working on updating ordinances, as well as a new document “Potential Development
Hazards in Emigration Canyon.” This will be a guideline to anyone contemplating developing
the area, and that is an ongoing process

        3. Community Renewable Energy Program

No updates at this time.

   B. Council Member Harris

        1. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

Some of her updates were reviewed earlier in the meeting, but she noted the following:

   -    Rocky Mountain Community Fire webinar, April 30 from 1-2pm
   -    Rocky Mountain Community Wildfire event in the city on May 6, at 5:30pm
   -    Firewise May 17
   -    Chipping Days beginning week of July 7
   -    Meeting with staff from Fire, Forestry and State Lands along with UFA Staff and
        community representatives to discuss Emigration Canyon Projects including the
        ongoing effort to bury lines beginning soon with Rocky Mountain Power.

She would love to see a defined time when no burning is allowed in the code, and that will be
discussed next month for feedback. No UFA board Meeting this month, the finance committee
met and proposed budget has been released. There is a UFA public hearing on June 17 for
the upcoming budget adoption, she will send that to Council Member Hawkes for the website
and Diana Baun for public notice.

        2. Watershed Plan

Had a few phone calls with Sandy Winger, she and staff are continuing to edit the draft and
there is progress.

   C. Council Member Pinon

        1. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)


       Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 18


No updates at this time, meeting next week. He discussed moving to the monthly pay system,
which will help with the district’s cash flow.

       2. Utah Broadband

Comcast representative was present on Zoom tonight. Diana Baun shared the template letter
that was sent and asked the council to fill in the blank area, send it to her, and she will have it
prepared for signatures before the Friday deadline.

       3. Update on Possible High-Density Development

No updates at this time.

ULCT Updates

Council Member Pinon attended the Utah League of Cities and Towns Spring Conference last
week, excellent event. A few things he wanted to bring back and discuss with the council:
Crisis Proof for City Communication – having an email database is important. Heard from
member of Salt lake City who is available for further mentoring if desired. When there is good
information the mayor communicates, when there is bad information it is not an elected official,
it is a communications specialist for the city because you don’t want that to be used as
campaign messaging against yourself later. During crisis, rely on police and fire to help
communicate things. Ensuring that as they need CodeRED that templates are set up for quick
release of communication and information. Content needs to be fully vetted before release as
well, and noted more than Council Member Hawkes should be trained and have access to that
system in case of emergency. Many of the crises happening are through social media, with the
biggest concern being TikTok. A few stories were shared that went viral, and they were able to
see how things could have been different if they had been able to handle the problem at the
very beginning, rather than it being left to spread on social media. Even in small cities, this
information was very important and the understanding that they need to stay ahead of
communication. When the Next Door app was brought up, he noted that is low risk because it
does not have the potential to go viral and then become a crises they have to react to. The last
thing they want to do is allow social media to tell a story that isn’t true. Related to the Utah
State Survey, he brought up the option for a “Healthy Utah” designation. He participated in one
of their training sessions last year, and went to another one that was wellbeing focused, and
he encouraged the city to consider filing for that designation as it helps them connect with the
community, provide opportunities for engagement and other physical events and activities.
Also suggested doing more with Camp K as a community, whether hosting new events like
Farmers Markets, or other options. Applications are due in August if the council is interested.

The council encouraged Council Member Pinon to get more information on the program to
present next month.

   D. Deputy Mayor Hawkes

       1. Website (www.emigration.utah.gov)


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 19


Working on a new newsletter, hesitates putting all the current news in the newsletter because
it would be too long. She suggested putting some of the information on the website versus the
newsletter. Mayor Smolka suggested at least adding the dates for upcoming events to the
newsletter. She will add the information and send that to the council for review. Website has
the ability to send marketing emails, as well as social media account linking.

      1. CodeRED

Suggested continuing with the concept of releasing via multiple modalities to ensure everyone
sees it, with the additional “add your email” option to the website to capture even more emails.
She can link things like attachments to the CodeRED emails as well. She indicated the
messages are vetted before being released.

      2. Association of Municipal Governments

No updates at this time.

      3. Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

Seminar on the 28th on Planning for Utah’s Water Future, she has the information for that. She
briefly reviewed the Outdoor Recreation Initiative Program introduced through the League, and
noted this might be a good chance to get funding for the restrooms, road clearing, etc. Phase
one is the application and she will forward that to the council to decide what they’d like to do.
Outdoor Recreation Grant deadlines are May 7. Mayor Smolka expressed a preference to go
through the MSD’s new grant writer and Diana Baun encouraged Council Member Hawkes to
contact Marla for contact information on the new grant writer.

   E. Mayor Smolka

      1. Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Open House which was well attended with a ribbon cutting, got to meet the new staff and see
the new offices. MSD Meetings are now held at the new location, with very easy access off the
freeway. Tomorrow they are having their public hearing on the MSD budget, including
Emigration’s budget numbers. Legislature passed a bill changing bond as elected officials to
criminal insurance, the MSD is taking care of that for all member communities.

      2. Landfill Council

Meeting is tomorrow and have opened Pod 8, which is working very well. There was a big fire
a week ago, which most likely started from something illegal being dumped.

      3. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee

Meeting is Thursday, they will be addressing amendments for the TIP for the 2026-2030
session.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 20


      4. Council of Governments (COG)

Missed the meeting this last month, there was discussion on elections and information on how
the laws have changed regarding elections.

      5. Legislative Update

Receiving those updates tomorrow night, specifically things affecting districts and local
municipalities. He will give that report next month.

Council Member Hawkes asked about the possibility of reviewing the content of the MSD
newsletter prior to publishing. She was not comfortable with what was sent out since their
names are on it.

Mayor Smolka asked for her to remind him in August to send her what he is planning on
sending for review in the September newsletter. He also noted that he often asks the council
for input on what goes into the message, but usually gets no response.

12. Public Comments

Lyska Emerson – The main comment is all of this popping up about UDOT pushing us to a
project all of a sudden, that is concerning. I just don’t know where we’re at, so I feel like as
hard as we’re trying in the neighborhood to get communication and information, we feel like we
don’t know what’s going on and where we’re at, what the path forward is and the steps.
Speaking to communication I think that’s key, I just would like to encourage that there is some
clear communication on what the steps are, will we have a feasibility study and what that
entails, means and is. Is it environmental, I don’t even understand if that’s separate from an
RFP. We haven’t even answered the question of whether or not this whole project is a go with
a green light, in the sense that have we answered the question whether it will meet our overall
arching goal of increased safety, what if is actually worsens the situation in an evidence based,
well designed study. That hasn’t been done, and is that feasibility study one we are going to do
prior to proceeding. Do you understand what I’m saying?

Mayor Smolka responded that the council has addressed that, but Ms. Emerson is just asking
the same question they’ve asked the professionals to do.

Ms. Emerson then noted the discussion shifted to environmental issues, which are important
as well, but feasibility of the whole project, are they going to proceed, undercuts that even.

Mayor Smolka noted there are many steps involved in the first step, which is when the
engineering groups gets the consultant on board and starts getting answers. Until then, there
is no additional information. The council has asked for the information requested, and they
have been heard, and the engineering group is working on getting that information.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 21


Council Member Hawkes noted that the report today was what prompted these questions, and
even she felt she hadn’t heard about it from UDOT before the meeting, and that’s where the
concern is. She asked for possibly monthly updates.

Mayor Smolka noted that they are at a point where things will start happening monthly, and
this was already discussed regarding having it on the agenda as a recurring item as the
“Project updates” section.

Council Member Hawkes noted that if the council has no idea what’s being brought up, and
they are just as surprised as the residents showing up, that’s not ideal.

Mayor Smolka understood her point, but noted that Ms. Woodland came to the meeting to give
the council an update, and that’s what was done. Wouldn’t that be the update they’re looking
for, and a part of the communication process.

Council Member Harris agreed that Ms. Woodland’s update was great, but it was the woman
who claimed to be the UDOT employee that disagreed with everything presented created
questions they weren’t expecting.

Mayor Smolka noted that the UDOT employee is a canyon resident.

Ms. Woodland noted that what the resident working for UDOT stated is not what Ms.
Woodland has been hearing from UDOT, and Tolin has been copying her on all emails from
UDOT. She now has a lot of questions as well that she will be getting answers for after this
meeting.

Council Member Harris stated it would be helpful to get a quick summary email prior to the
meeting so they’re aware of what’s coming and Ms. Woodland said she could commit to send
a few sentences beforehand, but that’s about all.

Diana Baun reminded the council that the information presented tonight was also in the
supporting documents posted prior to the meeting and sent to the council, so that can also be
reviewed prior to the meeting for information ahead of time.

Tyler Tippits – wanted to point out as you were talking about boring for the different internet
providers that are going to come up here, again, this is more for your Cameron, I am going to
mix two different items, the boring and the road repair. I am going to tell you that yes they can
bore on the side of the road, but in this canyon they are going to unload a horizontal bore
machine that is tractor driven, which plays hell on asphalt. When you’re talking about road
repair and contracting with whoever it’s going to be, you’re going to want to account for that
because whether they’r boring along the side of the road or they’re doing the boring to get up
to the end user’s home, especially there, that’s going to end up on the roadway, that tractor
just plays hell on asphalt, especially if it’s done in the summertime.

Janet Haskill – Two questions, on the UDOT running the project, which I knew, I think I told
you that recently that I had heard that through the funding place, when do they get involved.



     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 22


Are they going to be involved in the feasibility and environmental, or do they come after that
when the project construction actually starts.

Ms. Woodland responded that if it’s a CatX, we do it first and then UDOT gets involved. If it’s
not, then UDOT gets involved for the whole process, and she will get more information on that.

Ms. Haskill – I wasn’t clear after that discussion about who pays for that, who pays for the
feasibility and environmental study.

Ms. Woodland responded if it’s a CatX then it’s us, Emigration Canyon City. If it’s not a CatX
then it’s part of the grant – she will find that out and report back.

Jessica Steed – My question is actually unrelated and follow-up from a few months ago when
we talked about the Tuesday night group of riders that meets at the bottom of the canyon on
Tuesday Nights. Detective Larsen was going to address that issue and I wanted to get some
follow-up and see. I know it’s ongoing, but there are huge packs on Tuesday nights going up
and I wanted to follow-up on that.

Mayor Smolka responded that the council had that discussion between the time Ms. Steed left
the meeting and rejoined online. Tonight the group size was changed from 50 for a normal
special event permit to 20 for bicycles – we have asked that to be written up to change the
code at the next meeting.

Ms. Woodland noted she was coming up the canyon about 6:15-ish, and they were coming out
from Rotary Lane just as she was passing; it was terrifying. She made it past them, but she
counted from 6:24 to 6:29, for 5 minutes, there were 119 riders and the bulk of those were in
the first minute.

Mayor Smolka shared a few announcements:
  - Jeff Carlstom, their historian, is ready and able to take anyone on a walk and show
      them the history around Donner Monument, across the Sun and Moon where the wagon
      ruts are, etc.

Asked to clarify that the public hearing for the budget adoption will be at the May meeting.
Diana Baun noted it was stated during the meeting and will be posted accordingly via public
notice more than 10 days before the meeting. Mayor Smolka asked those in attendance if
there were any issues with that, there were no conflicts. The council noted the day before the
meeting was Memorial Day as well.

Mayor Smolka brought up the concept of enacting changes to Mayor wages, and noted those
changes should go into effect January of 2026 if they are made. Diana Baun reminded the
council that they need to let her know ahead of time if they want to have that conversation so
she can file the appropriate public notice for the public hearing.

13. Future Agenda Items




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 23




14. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205
   A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental Health of
      an Individual.
   B. Pending or Reasonably Imminent Litigation.
   C. Purchase, Exchange, or Lease of Real Property.
   D. Deployment of Security Personnel.

No closed session needed.

15. Adjourn

Council Member Pinon moved to adjourn the April 22, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council
Meeting. Council Member Harris seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

The April 22, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council Meeting adjourned at 10:00 PM.

The April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes were Approved by the City Council on
the 27th day of May 2025:


ATTEST:




                                                          Joe Smolka, Mayor


Diana Baun, City Recorder




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                EMIGRATION CANYON
                CITY COUNCIL WORKSHOP MEETING

                APRIL 22, 2025, 7:00 PM
                UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                               EMIGRATION CANYON
                     CITY COUNCIL WORKSHOP MEETING MINUTES


Council Members Present:
Joe Smolka, Mayor
Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
David Brems, Council Member
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Council Members Excused:
Robert Pinon, Council Member

Staff Present:
Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
Diana Baun, City Recorder

Others Present:


1. CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Joe Smolka, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:05 PM.

2. COUNCIL DISCUSSION TOPICS
   A. Discuss Compensation Wages for Position of Mayor.

The council began their discussion of mayoral compensation. Mayor Smolka, who announced
he would not seek re-election, stated that the current compensation for the mayor is $1,500
per month, with additional pay of $100 per MSD (Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District)
meeting—typically two per month—if the mayor serves on the MSD board. He added that
although it is not mandatory, he believes the mayor should serve on the board to oversee
financial matters, given the mayor's responsibility in signing relevant documents. He clarified
that not all MSD board members are mayors; currently, a council member serves as the
board's chair. There are seven members on the MSD board.




                            EMIGRATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
              COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                              COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2


Council members inquired about appropriate compensation and comparative data. Mayor
Smolka indicated that packets distributed to the council included budget information, though
not specific to mayoral wages. Comparisons were made with other cities. For instance,
Springdale’s mayor, who works full-time, reportedly earns $6,500 annually. Various council
members reviewed documents referencing municipal budgets and comparative wages. They
noted that some cities, such as Magna and Brighton, include the salaries of city administrators
or managers in their budget figures, making direct comparisons difficult. It was pointed out that
some budgets also include employee benefits.

Using data from Transparent Utah, the council examined specific salary figures. For example,
Kelly Bush’s salary was cited as $18,500 in 2022. Mayor Smolka mentioned that the original
$1,000 per month wage had been suggested during the Metro Township period and could be
adjusted based on local discretion. Discussion also highlighted an instance where Mayor
Smolka was overpaid in 2021 and subsequently returned $5,000 to correct the error.
Clarification was made that mayoral compensation for attending MSD meetings comes from
MSD’s budget, often indirectly supported by sales tax revenues. Further inquiries were made
into whether additional compensation is offered for extra meetings, which it typically is not. The
council briefly discussed how state oversight of compensation for district board members had
changed and noted that MSD’s payment structure is determined by its board.

Attention then turned to differences in city structures. Some municipalities have city
administrators or managers with significant salaries, which affect overall compensation
assessments. For example, Magna has a full-time City Manager, David Brickey, and pays for
other contracted roles, such as IT support. White City has a part-time Administrator, Rory, who
also works full-time for Midvale as its Recorder and handles duties for White City on
weekends. Such dual roles contribute to a wide range of compensation figures among similarly
sized municipalities.

The council briefly debated the feasibility and potential benefits of hiring a part-time City
Manager to alleviate the mayor’s administrative burden. Council Member David Brems
suggested it could reduce the load on elected officials. However, concerns were raised about
whether sufficient funds could secure a qualified candidate without the need for extensive
training. The group reflected on past experiences with city management and discussed
whether reallocating funds, such as reducing council wages, could support hiring an
administrator. Discussion continued centered on the roles and workload of elected officials,
specifically the mayor and council members, and how these responsibilities might justify
adjustments to compensation or necessitate structural changes in governance.

Council Member Hawkes raised the idea that many responsibilities currently handled by the
mayor—particularly participation on various boards—could potentially be delegated to other
council members, thereby reducing the mayor’s workload. Council Member David Brems noted
his own extensive involvement, including chairing a Compensation Board and serving on the
UPD and SLVLESA Boards, all of which required significant time commitments. Mayor Smolka
added that he had tracked his hours one month and found that mayoral duties equated to
roughly 40 hours per week.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3


The council members then debated what a reasonable mayoral salary might be, with
suggestions ranging between $2,500 and $3,000 per month. This discussion evolved into
considerations about the formal structure of the city's government. Diana Baun clarified that
the city had not yet formally changed its form of government, which would require passing an
ordinance. She explained that under some models, the mayor serves as a voting member of
the council, while in others, the mayor serves more as an executive with no voting rights
except in tie-breaking scenarios. The decision about the city’s future governance structure
remains pending.

The conversation then shifted to funding concerns. Council members discussed the need for
new revenue sources to support upcoming projects, such as a feasibility study for a community
center and potential property acquisition or construction. Council Member Brems suggested
implementing a franchise tax, and Council Member Catherine Harris confirmed that as a newly
incorporated city, they have the authority to levy municipal taxes, which could also include a
municipal property tax if needed to back bonds or other long-term investments.

Financial documents were reviewed, revealing that the city appeared to be operating at a
deficit, with significant transfers out of revenue. A projected shortfall of approximately $319,000
was noted. Mayor Smolka and Diana Baun explained that sales tax allocations and MSD
budgeting practices were how this difference was covered. Council members expressed
confusion over how much of their funding came from the MSD and how much of their
administrative expenses were subsidized by other municipalities. There was also concern over
the fairness of sales tax allocations, given that they are based on population algorithms and
may not accurately reflect the city's actual tax contributions, especially from online purchases.

Diana Baun offered to arrange for MSD officials to attend the next meeting to provide detailed
explanations of the city’s financial status and the MSD budgeting process. The council agreed
that this would be necessary before making any decisions about taxation or staffing changes.

   B. Discussion on Commercial Dog Walkers

The council agreed to carry over the discussion on commercial dog walkers to the next
meeting’s agenda, as there was insufficient time to address it during the current session.


3. Adjourn

Council Member Harris moved to adjourn the April 22, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council
Workshop Meeting. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote was 4-0,
unanimous in favor. Council Member Pinon was absent from the vote.

The April 22, 2025 Emigration Canyon Council Workshop Meeting adjourned at 6:55 PM.




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


The April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting Workshop Minutes were Approved by the City
Council on the 27th day of May 2025:


ATTEST:




                                                          Joe Smolka, Mayor


Diana Baun, City Recorder




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                             Emigration Canyon Monthly Report April 2025
                                             Calls for service: 37   Initial Reports: 14    Citations: 10




Crime/Police Stats:

In the month of April 2025, Unified Police Department responded to 37 calls for service. Of those 37 calls for
service, 14 reports were written. There were 10 citations written, 5 for speeding and 5 for other various traffic
related incidents.

Several incidents of note:

Several residents in Emigration Canyon called on shots fired call, these calls were responded to by UPD and the
Sheriff’s Office. By the time the Officers arrived on scene, no one was located. However, rifle shell casing were
found the next day on Emigration Canyon Road, above Pinecrest and below Little Mountain.

Several transients were spoken to about camping in the canyon.

A utility trailer was stolen from Sunnydale Lane and the trailer was listed NCIC.

 CALLS FOR SERVICE OFFENSE                                           COUNTS
 Cell Hang Up                                                        5
 Traffic Stop                                                        6
 Parking Complaint                                                   1
 Reckless                                                            3
 Agency Assist                                                       1
 Citizen/Motor Assist                                                5
 Suicidal Threats                                                    1
 Stolen Vehicle                                                      1
 Suspicious                                                          2
 Shots Fired                                                         6
 Illegal Dumping                                                     1
 Transient Problem                                                   1
 Patrol Check                                                        1
 Found Property                                                      1
 Noise Complaint                                                     2




 CITATION OFFENSES                                                   COUNTS
 Speeding                                                            5
 Passing in no passing zone                                          1
 Parking                                                             1
 Failure to operate in single lane                                   1
 Impeding the Flow of traffic                                        1
 Following to close                                                  1
Heat Map of Calls for Service in Emigration Canyon
Protect Your Pet from Summer Fun
Salt Lake County Animal Services
More pets go missing in the summer months than at any other time of year. Make sure they always have
on a collar with an ID tag, with up-to-date info. Microchipping your pet is also important in the event
your pet goes missing.

Watch out for these sounds of summer:

Barbecues: If guests are going to be coming in and out of the front door or back gate, keep your pets in
a secure area, or put them in their crate. An unsecured gate or door left open is the perfect opportunity
for your pet to take themselves on an adventure without you.

Thunderstorms: According to the ASPCA, 1 in 5 pets goes missing after being scared by loud noises. Be
sure to bring your pet indoors and keep them away from open windows when summer storms roll into
your area.

Fireworks: The loud noise of firework displays, big or small, is scary and disorienting to pets. Leave them
at home, inside with a loud fan, or calming music. If the fireworks display is in your driveway, be sure to
clean up the leftover firework debris, never underestimate what your dog may try to eat. Fireworks are
poisonous to pets.

All pets in Salt Lake County can receive a free microchip at Salt Lake County Animal Services. We
welcome you to bring in your pet to Animal Services at 511 W 3900 S, Tue – Sat, 10 AM -6 PM, to get
your pet microchipped.

Find a lost pet? Contact your local animal control! The first place pet owners look for a lost pet is at their
local shelter. How you can help if you find a lost pet: post a photo of them, where you found them, and
what shelter they went to on the NextDoor App or Utah Lost & Found Pets Facebook Group. All pets at
Salt Lake County Animal Services can be seen online at AdoptUtahPets.org.
ENGINEERING
STANDARDS &
DRAWINGS
2025 Edition
Planning    Commision
Planning Commission Approvaladopted:  xx/xx/xxxx
                             & Recommendation: May 8, 2025
City Council Approval & Adoption:
City Council adopeted: xx/xx/xxxx




                       860 W Levoy Drive, Suite #300
                               Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                     (385) 910-7027
                         msd.utah.gov/engineering
                         GENERAL PROVISIONS
Emigration Canyon automatically adopts the latest revision of AASHTO “A Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets” (Green Book), the Utah Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD), and APWA Manual of Standard Plans and Manual of Standard Specifications,
with exceptions noted in this document.
               EXCEPTIONS TO APWA STANDARDS
 APWA Plan No./
Specification Section
                          Exception
                          APWA Plan No’s. 221.1 and 221.2 are acceptable for use. APWA Plan
215, 216, 221.1, 221.2,
                          No’s. 215, 216, 225, 229.1, and 229.2 are not acceptable for use unless
 225, 229.1 & 229.2
                          otherwise authorized by the MSD Engineer.
                          When adverse slopes, right-of-way limitations, or existing obstructions
     221.1, 221.2         occur, MSD Engineering may authorize deviations from the APWA
                          apron/slope geometry.
                          Bituminous Concrete (asphalt) T-Patch thickness is 6” minimum for both
         251
                          residential and non-residential streets.
                          Bituminous Concrete (asphalt) T-Patch thickness is 6” minimum for both
                          residential and non-residential streets.

                          2” mill and overlay are never required if there is a known upcoming city
         255              Capital Improvement Project that will reconstruct or overlay the road within
                          two (2) years. Otherwise, the mill and overlay is only required when length
                          of T-patch is over 300 feet, and existing pavement (full depth or overlay) is
                          less than seven (7) years old. Mill and overlay must meet requirements in
                          Emigration Canyon Code 14.16.010.C.
                           Steel tube is to be 12’ x 2” x 2”. Standard Plan 140 in this book applies in
         292
                           locations where sign is installed in concrete.
                          Where APWA inlet plans refer to frame and grate per APWA Plan No.
  315.1, 315.2 & 316      308, contractor shall use Standard Plan 201 in this book, unless otherwise
                          authorized by the MSD Engineer.
                           The use of pre-cast "knock-out" boxes in storm drain facilities may be
                           authorized by the MSD Engineer, upon written request and provided the
                           following conditions are met:
                           a) All other requirements of APWA Plan 332 - Precast Box, are still met.
                           b) Boxes shall have engineered design for AASHTO's HL-93 live load
                           and shall be designed for lateral soil loads appropriate for the burial depth
                           and conditions.
         332
                           c) The thickness of concrete collars where the pipe enters box at the
                           knockout face shall extend 6” to 9” from the exterior face of the box and
                           shall cover the entire side of the structure with no less than 12” concrete
                           all the way around the pipe. Collars shall have a minimum of four (4) #4
                           dowels tying the collar to the precast box and include a #4 rebar ring or
                           square tie around the pipe.
                           d) Inspection and certification required on all precast boxes.
         381              (Note 2A) - Use granular backfill borrow for common fill.
                          (Note 2B) - Use granular backfill borrow for common fill.
         382              (Note 3A) - Minimum trench width is to be Pipe O.D. + 24” or (Pipe O.D. x
                          1.25)+12”, whichever is greater.
                          Public storm drain pipes and culverts shall be 15” dia.or greater RCP unless
                          otherwise authorized by the MSD Engineer. Installation must follow
                          manufacturer’s direction. Provide a minimum amount of 1’ cover over top
       33 05 02
                          of concrete pipes and 2’ cover over the top of pipes of other materials
                          unless approved otherwise by manufacturer and MSD Engineer. Corrugated
                          metal pipe and vitrified clay pipe are not allowed.
            STANDARD DETAILS TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION 1 – ROADWAYS

General
Legend and Symbols...................................................................…........................…......100
Abbreviations......................................................................…........................…..............101

Details
Roadway Section.........................................................................…........................…......110


SECTION 2 - STORM DRAIN FACILITIES

Hardware
Curb Opening Frame and Grate...............................................…....................................201
Ladder Rung.........................................................................…........................................208

Drainage Facility Guidelines
Detention Basin Guidelines..........................................…................................................300
Outlet Structure Guidelines................................…...........................................................301
                                 SYMBOL LEGEND                                                                      LINE LEGEND
     DESCRIPTION        EXIST.   PROP.          DESCRIPTION             EXIST.   PROP.           DESCRIPTION          EXISTING    PROPOSED
  SANITARY SEWER                                IRRIGATION                               STORM DRAIN

CLEANOUT                                 IRRIGATION SHUT-OFF VALVE                       SANITARY SEWER

SS MANHOLE                               IRRIGATION CONTROL VALVE BOX                    WATER

SS VALVE                                                                                 IRRIGATION

SS METER                                 IRRIGATION GATE                                 NATURAL GAS

SEWER STUB                                      NATURAL GAS                              OVERHEAD POWER

    STORM DRAIN                          GAS METER                                       UNDERGROUND POWER

CATCH BASIN                              GAS VALVE                                       OVERHEAD TELEPHONE

DRY WELL                                 GAS MANHOLE                                     UNDERGROUND TELEPHONE

SD CLEAN OUT BOX                                     SITE                                FIBER OPTIC

FLARE END                                BOLLARD                                         CABLE TELEVISION

 COMMUNICATION                           BOULDER                                         FENCE

TELE. MANHOLE                            DRINKING FOUNTAIN                               MAJOR CONTOUR                  4520        4520

TELE. PEDESTAL                           FLAGPOLE                                        MINOR CONTOUR

TELE. POLE                               GATE                                            TOP OF BANK

TV PEDESTAL                              MAIL BOX                                        TOE OF SLOPE

CABLE TV                                 PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL                               PROPERTY LINE
                        C




                                 C
                        A

                        V




                                 A

                                 V
                        T




                                 T




 DOMESTIC WATER                          SCHOOL SIGN                                     PROPERTY LINE (OPTIONAL)

FIRE HYDRANT                             SIGN                                            RIGHT OF WAY

SPIGOT                                   SPOT ELEVATION                                  TEMPORARY EASEMENT

WATER MANHOLE                            TREE (SHRUB)                                    PERMANENT EASEMENT
                          WM      WM
WATER METER                                                                              ROAD CENTERLINE
                                         TREE
WATER VALVE                                                                              ROAD ASPHALT

YARD HYDRANT                             TEST HOLE                                       ROAD GRAVEL

         ELECTRIC                        WELL                                            CURB AND GUTTER

ELEC. MANHOLE                            WELL (MONITORING)                               ATMS

ELEC. METER                              CONCRETE FLATWORK                               SAWCUT

ELEC. TRANS.                             ASPHALTIC CONCRETE                              GRADING FILL LIMIT

JUNCTION BOX                                                                             GRADING CUT LIMIT

GUY WIRE                                           SURVEY                                DITCH/SWALE FLOWLINE

POWER STUB                               CAP

POWER/UTILITY POLE                       CTRL PT

STREET LIGHT

STREET LIGHT WITH ARM

TRAFFIC SIGNAL POLE




                                                    LEGEND AND SYMBOLS
     ABBREVIATIONS                       ABBREVIATIONS                    ABBREVIATIONS
ABBREV.            TERM            ABBREV.              TERM           ABBREV.             TERM
ALUM      ALUMINUM                 FF         FINISH FLOOR             SBO       SHOULDER BREAKOVER
APPROX.   APPROXIMATELY            FG         FINISH GRADE             SPEC      SPECIFICATION
ASSY      ASSEMBLY                 FH         FIRE HYDRANT             STA       STATION
∠         ANGLE                    FL         FLOW LINE                STD       STANDARD
@         AT (MEASUREMENTS)        FLG        FLANGE                   STL       STEEL
BC        BEGINNING OF CURVE       FT OR '    FEET                     ST STL    STAINLESS STEEL
BFS       BEGIN FULL SUPER                                             TBC       TOP BACK OF CURB
                                   FTG        FOOTING
BLDG      BUILDING                                                     TFC       TOP FACE OF CONCRETE
                                   GALV       GALVANIZED
B.M.      BENCH MARK
                                   GB         GRADE BREAK              TOB       TOP OF BANK
BNC       BEGIN NORMAL CROWN
                                   GV         GATE VALVE               TOC       TOP OF CONCRETE
BNS       BEGIN NORMAL SHOULDER    HORIZ      HORIZONTAL               TOF       TOP OF FOOTING
                                   HP         HIGH POINT               TOP       TOP OF PIPE
BOA       BEGINNING OF ALIGNMENT
                                   ID         INSIDE DIAMETER          TOW       TOP OF WALL
BP        BEGINNING OF PROFILE                                         TYP       TYPICAL
                                   IE         INVERT ELEVATION
          BITUMINOUS SURFACE
BSC                                IN. OR "   INCH                     U.N.O.    UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE
          COURSE
BSW       BACK OF SIDEWALK         INV.       INVERT                             VERTICAL COMPOUND
                                                                       VCC
                                                                                 CURVE
BVC       BEGIN VERTICAL CURVE     K          CURVE COEFFICIENT
                                                                       VCCE      VCC ELEVATION
BVCE      BVC ELEVATION            L          LEFT
                                                                       VCCS      VCC STATION
BVCS      BVC STATION              LB         LINE BEGINNING
                                                                       VRC       VERTICAL REVERSE CURVE
B.W.      BOTH WAYS                LB OR #    POUND
C         CHANNEL (STRUCTURAL)                                         VRCE      VRC ELEVATION
                                   LF         LINEAL FEET              VRCS      VRC STATION
CJ        CONTROL JOINT
                                   LN         LINEAL                   W/        WITH
℄ or CL   CENTER LINE
                                   LP         LOW POINT
CLR       CLEARANCE                                                    W/O       WITHOUT
                                   MAX        MAXIMUM
CMP       CORRUGATED METAL PIPE    MIN        MINIMUM                  W/REQ'D WHERE REQUIRED
CO        CLEANOUT
                                   NO. OR # NUMBER
CONC      CONCRETE
CONT      CONTINUOUS               O.C.    ON CENTER
CPLG      COUPLING                 OVERALL
                                           OVERALL HIGH POINT
                                   HP
CTR       CENTER
                                   OVERALL
CU FT     CUBIC FEET                       OVERALL LOW POINT
                                   LP
CU YD     CUBIC YARD               PC      POINT OF CURVATURE
                                           POINT OF COMPOUND
DEG OR ° DEGREE                    PCC
                                           CURVATURE
DET      DETAIL                    PE      POLYETHYLENE
DIA OR Ø DIAMETER                          TANGENT-TANGENT
                                   PI
D.I.P.   DUCTILE IRON PIPE                 INTERSECT
DIST     DISTRIBUTION              PL OR ⅊    PLATE OR PROPERTY LINE
DWG      DRAWING                              POINT OF REVERSE
EA       EACH                      PRC
                                              CURVATURE
EC       END OF CURVE              PT         END OF CURVE
EFS      END FULL SUPER            PVC        POLYVINYL-CHLORIDE
ELB      ELBOW                                POINT OF VERTICAL
                                   PVI
ELEV OR                                       INTERSECTION
         ELEVATION                 R          RADIUS OR RIGHT
EL.
ENC      END NORMAL CROWN          R&R        REMOVE & REPLACE
ENS       END NORMAL SHOULDER      RC         REVERSE CROWN
                                              REINFORCED CONCRETE
EOA       END OF ALIGNMENT         RCP
                                              PIPE
EP        END OF ALIGNMENT         REM        REMOVE
E.W.      EACH WAY                 REQ'D      REQUIRED
EXIST     EXISTING                 REV        REVISION
EVC       END VERTICAL CURVE       R/W OR     RIGHT-OF-WAY
EVCE      EVC ELEVATION            ROW
                                   S          SLOPE
EVCS      EVC STATION




                                         ABBREVIATIONS
NOTES:




SUBGRADE:



UNTREATED BASE COURSE:




PRIME COAT:



TACK COAT:




ASPHALT CONCRETE:




                     ROADWAY SECTION
NOTES:




         CURB OPENING FRAME AND GRATE
                           A




    B                             B


                           A
              FRAME PLAN




                               SECTION A-A
SECTION B-B




GRATE PLAN
                                 DETAIL




  CURB OPENING FRAME AND GRATE
NOTES:




         LADDER RUNG
                SECTION




                     ELEVATION




SECTION A-A               PLAN




              LADDER RUNG
NOTES:
GENERAL DETENTION BASIN REQUIREMENTS:




SECTION A. Inlet and Outlet Structure Requirements:




SECTION B. Requirements for accesses to all inlet/outlet structures:




SECTION C. Accessible Road/Pad Requirements:




                 DETENTION BASIN GUIDELINES
              A




              A




   SECTION A-A - TYPICAL BASIN SECTION




TYPICAL COUNTY ACCESSIBLE ROAD/PAD DETAIL


       DETENTION BASIN GUIDELINES
NOTES:




         OUTLET STRUCTURE GUIDELINES
    B

                                SECTION B


    B
A                          A




        PLAN




               SECTION A



         OUTLET STRUCTURE GUIDELINES
ENGINEERING
STANDARDS & DRAWINGS




    860 W Levoy Drive, Suite #300
            Taylorsville, UT 84123
                  (385) 910-7027
      msd.utah.gov/engineering
                                                                               5/20/2025




                                    Emigration Canyon
                              Engineering Standard Drawings

                                                  Lizel Allen, PE, CFM;
                                                  Director of Engineering

                                                  Tamaran Woodland, PE, CFM;
                                                  Engineering Manager




1




                    Need for Adopting
              Engineering Standard Drawings

    HB 368 (lines 4198-4201) – Inspection Standards Need to be Adopted by
    Each Municipality

    Schedule:
         o April 22nd – Presentation to Council for Consideration/Discussion
         o May 8th – Presentation to Planning Commission,
            Recommendation for Adoption
         o May 27th – Presentation to Council for Adoption




2




                                                                                      1
                                                                                          5/20/2025




               Engineering Standard Drawings

    Apply to:
           o Public Infrastructure
           o Development Projects

    We Recommend Adopting Industry Standards:
          o APWA (American Public Works Association)
          o AASHTO (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials)
          o Utah MUTCD (Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices)




3




                         Industry Standards

    Recommend Language to Automatically Adopt State Specific
    Updates of Industry Standards:




4




                                                                                                 2
                                                    5/20/2025




    Exceptions to Standards
              Sheet 3 of
              Engineering Standard Drawings 
              and Specifications




5




         Exceptions to Standards—Excavations

    APWA Plan 255 – Mill and Overlay Requirement:




    Required on ALL Roadway Excavation




6




                                                           3
                                                                     5/20/2025




         Exceptions to Standards—Excavations

    Emigration Canyon Code 14.16.010.C – Right-of-Way Excavation
          o More Stringent
          o New, Overlaid, Reconstructed (0-3 years)
              • To Center of Road
              • Or 15’ in Each Direction from Each Side of the Cut
          o Slurry or Chip-sealed Streets (0-2 years)
              • 15’ in Each Direction from Each Side of the Cut




7




                   Exceptions to Standards

    What are Other Municipalities Doing?
          o Commonly Accepted Across the State
          o West Valley City – City Specific 255 Standard
          o Salt Lake City
              • Required on Newly Constructed Roads for 7 Years
              • Required on Repaved Roads for 3 Years




8




                                                                            4
                                                                                     5/20/2025




                  Engineering Recommendation

     APWA Plan 255, with following exceptions:
     Mill and overlay not required whenever there is an upcoming city project
     that will mill and overlay or reconstruct the road within two (2) years.
     Otherwise,
            • City code requires full-width mill and overlay on roads newer than
                three (3) years.
            • Mill and overlay required if street cut is longer than 300 feet long
                and pavement is 3-7 years old.
            • Mill and overlay not required if pavement is greater than 7 years
                old.




9




                         Discussion/Comments




10




                                                                                            5
                    Emigration Canyon Municipal Code
               Chapter 14 – Highways, Sidewalks and Public Places

14.16.010 Right-Of-Way--Excavation And Structures Prohibited When

   A. No right-of-way of any Township road shall be dug up or excavated and no approach,
      road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising
      sign, or other structure or object of any kind or character shall be placed,
      constructed or maintained within any such right-of-way except as permitted by and
      in accordance with the regulations of the county engineering division acting for the
      Township.

   B. Cuts or open excavations on newly constructed, paved, or overlaid rights of way are
      not allowed for three years. If an emergency cut or excavation occurs, the
      responsible persons shall comply with any special conditions imposed by the
      Township regarding restoration of the roadway as detailed in Section C.

   C. Any person making any excavation, bore or boring in or under any Township right-of-
      way shall, at their own expense restore the surface to its same type and depth of
      pavement as which is adjoining, including the gravel base material (at a minimum of
      3: Bituminous surface and 8" untreated base course). All restoration shall conform
      to the Township standards and all restorations shall be accomplished within
      seventy-two (72) hours from the time the excavation, unless additional time is
      granted in writing by the Township. If, the road has been constructed, reconstructed,
      or overlaid within the preceeding three (3) years, or the pavement has been chip
      sealed or slurry sealed within the preceding two (2) years, the permittee shall be
      responsible for the following:

          1. New Streets, Reconstructed Streets, or Overlaid Streets: The asphalt surface
             shall be milled down a minimum depth of two inches from curb (or edge of
             asphalt) to center of road and resurfaced with asphalt. If the cut extends
             through the center-line of the road the milling and paving will be from curb to
             curb (or edge of asphalt to edge of asphalt). Milling and paving shall extend to
             a length of 15' in each direction from the east side of the cut. The County
             Engineer or designee reserves the right to require a length greater than ﬁfteen
             feet in each direction and a depth greater than two inches if there are special
             circumstances.

          2. Slurried Streets or Chip-sealed Streets: The pavement shall be re-slurry
             sealed with an approved type II slurry from curb (or edge of asphalt) to center
              of road and a minimum of 15' in each direction from each side of the cut. If
              the cut extends through the center-line of the road the application of slurry
              seal will be from curb to curb (or edge of asphalt to edge of asphalt).

           3. Excavation of Township rights-of-way during the winter months (herein
              deﬁned as October 15 to April 15) will be allowed only if the work is a new
              service connection, required maintenance, emergency or otherwise
              approved by the Township. Permanent patching of a Township right-of-way
              excavated in winter shall be delayed until April 15 or later and the outdoor
              ambient temperature is 50 degrees and rising. The permittee will maintain a
              temporary patch until such time as a permanent surfacing is accomplished.
              The temporary patch will provide a smooth driving surface and be restored
              within 72 hours of being notiﬁed that repairs are required.

              Any person who violated the provisions of this section is guilty of a Class C
              misdemeanor.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 792 § 1 (part), 1981: prior code § 10-3-15)

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 19-02-02 on 2/28/2019
                              2024




Fee Schedule
for Emigration Canyon
adopted June 25, 2025,
effective date July 1, 2025
Contents
Address Fees ........................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Business License Fees ............................................................................................................................................................ 3
   General Business Licenses .................................................................................................................................................. 3
   Short-term Rental Licenses .................................................................................................................................................. 3
   Alcohol-Related Licenses ..................................................................................................................................................... 4
   Sexually-oriented Business Licenses ................................................................................................................................... 4
Building Permit Fees ................................................................................................................................................................ 4
   Construction Valuation Tables .............................................................................................................................................. 7
   Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables ....................................................................................................................... 8
   Building and Inspection Fee Calculation .............................................................................................................................. 9
Plan Check Fees ...................................................................................................................................................................... 9
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP) ................................................................................................................. 10
   SWPPP Fees...................................................................................................................................................................... 10
   SWPPP Control Measures ................................................................................................................................................. 10
   SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines ........................................................................................................................................... 10
Land Use Fees ....................................................................................................................................................................... 11
   Conditional Use Permits ....................................................................................................................................................... 9
   Permitted Uses ................................................................................................................................................................... 11
   Subdivision Permits ............................................................................................................................................................ 11
   Ordinance Adjustments ...................................................................................................................................................... 12
   Other Land Use Applications .............................................................................................................................................. 12
Code Enforcement Fees ........................................................................................................................................................ 14
Bond Administration Fees ...................................................................................................................................................... 15
Miscellaneous Service Fees .................................................................................................................................................. 15
Engineering Fees ................................................................................................................................................................... 15
Glossary of Terms .................................................................................................................................................................. 18




Emigration Canyon Metro Township contracts with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”) to provide
planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services. The MSD provides these services
on behalf of and under the direction of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

NOTE: Fees and Fines will be applied as approved and set forth in this schedule. The Director of Engineering, Chief
Building Official or Director of Planning and Development may on occasion adjust fees/fines in unique circumstances up
to $1,500 per application. The MSD’s General Manager may do the same up to $5,000. These adjustments must be
documented and reported on if requested. Adjustments over $5,000 require approval of the governing body of the
jurisdiction to which the application pertains.
Address Fees

                   Fee Type                                                   Description                                                Amount
                                                                                                                                 $100.00 base fee
                                                 Provide address information on recorded subdivision plat                      plus $40.00 per lot a;
                                                 and/or individual parcel/building addresses. Ensure                           for multi-family units,
    Assignment of Address                        assignments meet addressing standards and are suitable                         $40.00 for the first 8
                                                 for mail delivery, public safety, utility services and general                  units in addition to
                                                 delivery of services.                                                          base fee and $5 per
                                                                                                                               unit for each unit over
                                                                                                                                        8 units
                                                 Confirm that petition includes the required signatures.
                                                 Document street name change and address change for
                                                 each property along street by filing an affidavit with the                      $250.00 base fee
    Street Name Change
                                                 Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the property                         plus $50.00 per lot
                                                 owner, Public Safety dispatch and the Salt Lake County
                                                 Treasurer of the address/street name change.
a
       The per lot fee does not apply to Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).



Business License Fees
General Business Licenses

                   Fee Type                                                   Description                                                Amount
    General Business License –                   For commercial business locations. Includes inspections
                                                                                                                                         $150.00
    Commercial Business                          and verification of zoning compliance.
    General Business License –                   For home-based businesses without on-site visitors and
                                                                                                                                          No Fee
    Home-Based Business (simple)                 customers.
                                                 For home-based businesses with on-site visitors and
    General Business License –
                                                 customers. Includes inspections and verification of zoning                              $150.00
    Home-Based Business
                                                 compliance.
    Per-employee Fee                             Includes verification of EIN documentation.                                              $6.00
                                                 For business operations of up to ___ days per year.
    Seasonal Business License                    Includes inspections and verification of zoning                                         $120.00
                                                 compliance.
    Solicitor ID                                 Includes photograph of applicant and issuance of ID card.                                $65.00
    Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
                                                                                                                                          $50.00
    License
                                                 Issued for operating a business without a license or with
    Administrative Citation                                                                                                              $300.00
                                                 an expired license.
    Business License Appeal                      To either Council or Hearing Examiner                                                   $1,000.00
Notes regarding business license fees:
1.     Withdrawn applications are subject to a charge of 25% of the fee amount.
2.     Licenses must be renewed prior to the expiration date.
            o   Licenses renewed within 30 days of expiring will not be charged a penalty.
            o   Licenses renewed 31-60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 25% of the general license fee.
            o   Licenses renewed more than 60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 100% of the general license fee
3.     For appeals, if the appeal is found in favor of the appellant then the fee shall be refunded less a $100.00 administrative fee.


Short-term Rental Licenses

                   Fee Type                                                   Description                                                Amount
    Umbrella Short-term Rental                   Primary license for short-term rental management
                                                                                                                                         $500.00
    License Fee – main license                   companies with multiple rental units/locations.
 Umbrella Short-term Rental                   Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                              $50.00
 License Fee – per unit                       compliance.
                                              Short-term rental license for homeowners renting their
 Short-term Rental License Fee –
                                              primary residence. Includes verification of zoning              $500.00
 homeowner
                                              compliance.


Alcohol-Related Licenses

                Fee Type                                                  Description                        Amount
 Off-Premise Beer Retailer                                                                                    $250.00
 Recreational On-Premise Beer
                                                                                                              $350.00
 Retailer
 Restaurant Liquor                                                                                            $500.00
 Limited Restaurant Liquor                                                                                    $500.00
 Beer-Only Restaurant                                                                                         $350.00
 On-Premise Beer Tavern                                                                                       $350.00
 Resort                                                                                                       $500.00
 Club Liquor                                                                                                  $600.00
 Banquet & Catering                                                                                           $500.00
 Single Event                                                                                                 $150.00
 Wholesale Beer                                                                                               $300.00
 Manufacturing                                                                                                $350.00
Alcohol-related business license applications are referred to local communities for consent and approval.




Sexually-oriented Business Licenses

                Fee Type                                                  Description                        Amount
 Sexually Oriented Business -                 Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                              $500.00
 Outcall Services                             compliance.
 Sexually Oriented Business -                 Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                              $300.00
 excluding Outcall Services                   compliance.


Building Permit Fees

Building permits include necessary inspections. If additional inspections are required, applicants will be charged the
reinspection fee for each additional visit. Most building permits will require a plan check fee in addition to the building
permit fee. Plan check fees are listed separately.
Building permits and mechanical, plumbing & electrical permits will be charged a state surcharge equal to 1% of the
permit fee.

                Fee Type                                                  Description                        Amount
 Building Permit – Minimum Fee                                                                                $70.00
 Building Permit - new
                                             See below for valuation schedules                               Varies a
 construction
 Building Permit - addition or
                                             See below for valuation schedules                               Varies a
 remodel
 Mobile Home Setup Permit                                                                                    $200.00
                                               Includes on-site inspection of one system. Additional
    Mechanical, Plumbing &
                                               appliances and fixtures after the first will be charged the                       $70.00
    Electrical Permit
                                               per-unit fee listed below.
    Fee per additional appliance or            Applies to each additional appliance, fixture, etc.
                                                                                                                                 $20.00
    fixture                                    inspected by inspector already on site.
    Grading Permit                                                                                                               Varies b
    Retaining Wall Permit                                                                                                        Varies c
    Demolition Permit                                                                                                            Varies d
    Window & Door Replacement –
                                               Applies when no other work is being done.                                         $70.00
    residential
    Window & Door Replacement –
                                               Applies when no other work is being done.                                         Varies d
    commercial
    Reroofing Permit Fees
    Reroofing – residential roof with
                                               Includes inspection of sheathing or decking.                                     $125.00
    sheathing
    Reroofing – residential roof
                                               Shingles only; no decking or sheathing.                                           $75.00
    without sheathing
    Reroofing – small commercial               Commercial roof project under $10,000 valuation.                                 $150.00
                                               Commercial roof project between $10,000 and $49,999
    Reroofing – medium commercial                                                                                               $175.00
                                               valuation.
    Reroofing – large commercial               Commercial roof project $50,000 valuation or higher.                             $250.00
    Solar Power System Permit Fees
    Residential/Small Commercial               Applies to residential and commercial installations up to
                                                                                                                                $100.00
    Solar Permit – base fee                    20 kW. Does not include fees for required plan check.
    Residential/Small Commercial               Additional fee based on size of installation. Does not
                                                                                                                            $30.00 per kW
    Solar Permit – fee per kW                  include fees for required plan check.
    Commercial Solar over 20 kW                Applies to larger commercial installations over 20 kW.                            Varies e
                                               Assumes that inspector is already on site for inspection of
    Battery Storage System                                                                                                 $2.00 per battery
                                               installation.
    Additional Inspection Fees
    Reinspection                                                                                                                 $50.00
                                               Inspections after a fire or disaster to determine extent of
    Pre-inspection                                                                                                               $70.00
                                               damage and permits needed for repairs.
    Multi-unit Inspection                                                                                                       $100.00
    Overtime/After-hours Inspection                                                                                       $120.00 (Per hour)
    Administrative Fees
                                               Applies when permit is cancelled before work                               25% of permit fee
    Cancellation of building permit
                                               commences.                                                                 ($200 maximum)
                                               Applies when permit has been expired for more than 30
    Reinstatement Fee – general                                                                                           50% of permit fee
                                               business days.
    Reinstatement Fee – final                  Applies when only final inspection is required, and permit                 50% of permit fee
    inspection                                 has been expired for more than 30 business days.                           ($200 maximum)
                                               Base fee equal to 200% of building permit fee, plus daily
                                                                                                                         200% of permit fee,
                                               fees commencing 10 business days after notice of
    Building or grading without a                                                                                       plus 1% of permit fee
                                               violation. Example, if the permit fee would have been
    permit                                                                                                              per day ($50 max per
                                               $100, then building or grading without a permit would
                                                                                                                                day)
                                               result in a $200 permit fee.
a     Permit fees for new construction, additions and remodels are based on calculated square footage and the current ICC valuation tables (see below).
      When square footage determinations not practical or possible, permit fees will be based on applicant’s declared valuation as reasonably
      determined by Director or Designee.
b     Permit fees for grading are based on the number of cubic yards of earth cut or filled.
c   Permit fees for retaining walls are based on the size of the project in lineal feet.
d   Permit fees for demolition and window/door replacement are based on declared valuation.
e   Permit fees for large solar installations are based on applicant’s declared valuation as reasonably determined by Director or designee.
Construction Valuation Tables

The valuations below are used to determine construction valuations for building permit fee calculations. The valuations
will be updated automatically as new standards are published by ICC, which is usually twice per year.
Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables

The supplemental valuations below may be updated annually as part of the annual fee approval process.

          Construction Type                             Unit                            Valuation
                                                                                  As provided in the ICC
 Basements – Unfinished                             Square Foot                   valuation table footnote
                                                                                           above
 Basements – Finished                               Square Foot                           $41.00
 Decks (any type)                                   Square Foot                           $22.00
 Carport/Covered Patio                              Square Foot                           $22.00
 Roof Conversions                                   Square Foot                           $22.00
 Fence (any type)                                    Lineal Foot                          $20.00
 Retaining Wall (any type)                           Lineal Foot                          $59.00
 Exterior Finish                                    Square Foot                            $5.00
 Fire Sprinklers                                    Square Foot                            $6.00
 Remodel/Alteration                                 Square Foot                           $39.00
 Basement TI                                            Square Foot                                $28.00
 Grading                                          Cubic Yard Cut and Fill                      Equation
                                                                                       35% of the valuation for
 Tenant Improvements                                     Calculated
                                                                                         new construction
                                                                                       80% of the valuation for
 Shell Only                                              Calculated
                                                                                         new construction



Building and Inspection Fee Calculation

Building permit fees based on valuation are calculated based on the calculations below.

     Construction Valuation                                           Fee
  Less than and including $2,000      $70.00
                                      $76.50 for the first $2,000
                                      plus $16.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
         $2,001 to $25,000
                                      to and including $25,000. . Example: Valuation of $3,400                                Commented [BH1]: Example included for added clarity
                                      would be $76.50 plus $33.00 ($16.50 x 2), or $109.50.                                   of what “fraction thereof” means.
                                      $456.00 for the first $25,000
        $25,001 to $50,000            plus $12.00 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $50,000.
                                      $765.00 for the first $50,000
       $50,001 to $100,000            plus $8.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $100,000.
                                      $1,181.00 for the first $100,000
       $100,001 to $500,000           plus $6.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $500,000.
                                      $3,781.00 for the first $500,000
      $500,001 to $1,000,000          plus $5.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                      to and including $1,000,000.
                                      $6,531.00 for the first $1,000,000
           Over $1,000,001
                                      plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof.




Plan Check Fees
Plan checks for building permits include up to 4 reviews. Additional reviews will be charged the hourly fee listed below.

              Fee Type                                       Description                                       Amount
 Plan Check Fee – residential                                                                               40% of building
 construction                                                                                                 permit fee
 Plan Check Fee – commercial                                                                                65% of building
 construction                                                                                                 permit fee
 Plan Check Fee – smaller
                                                                                                               $100.00
 projects
                                      Applies to any parcel within a Foothills & Canyons                    65% of building
 Plan Check Fee – FCOZ projects
                                      Overlay Zone.                                                           permit fee
 Land Use Review Fee                                                                                           $110.00
 Card File Plan Check Fee –
                                      Includes accessory structures.                                           $175.00
 single-family or duplex
 Card File Plan Check Fee –
                                                                                                               $350.00
 multi-family residential
 Plan Check Fee – hourly                                                                                $80.00 per hour


Stormwater Review & Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP)


Stormwater Review & Inspection Fees

             Fee Type                                          Description                                  Amount
 Stormwater Review – base fee         Base fee per project.                                                 $200.00
 Stormwater Review – per-acre         Additional fee per acre after the first acre; applies when
                                                                                                             $30.00
 fee                                  SWPPP required.
                                      Permit is required for any development within a mapped
 Floodplain Development Permit                                                                               $75.00
                                      floodplain as required by FEMA.
 SWPPP Oversite Inspection –          Sites with an NOI are inspected on a monthly basis until
                                                                                                             $60.00
 per month                            project is complete and applicant applies for an NOT



SWPPP Control Measures
All penalties and fines may be doubled for a second or third offense. Violations may be referred to the jurisdiction’s legal
counsel for further action.

           Penalty Type                                       Description                                   Amount
  Primary Boundary                   Per day per violation.occurence and then for        $1,000.00500.00
  Control                            each business day beginning the day after the
  ViolationWorking                   day on which fine was issued
  without an approved
  stormwater permit
  Secondary Boundary Control         Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then        $530000.00
  ViolationTracking mud on road      for each business day beginning the day after
                                     the day on which fine was issued

  Exit Control ViolationFailure to   Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then         $25500.00
  clean up or report spills          for each business day beginning the day after
                                     the day on which fine was issued

  Waste Control Violationfailure     Per day per violation. Per occurrence and then          $1500.00
  to conduct stormwater              for each business day beginning the day after
  inspections                        the day on which fine was issued

  Material Storage Control           Per day per violation. Per site, per occurrence         $250.00
  Violationfailure to use            and then for each business day beginning the
  general bestmanagment              day after the day on which fine was issued
  practices as determined
  by the authority



SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines

The table below lists illicit discharges common to construction and maintenance activities. It is a violation to discharge
pollutants. The presence of BMPs does not excuse an illicit discharge.

            Penalty Type                                       Description                                  Amount
 Sediment                             Per day per violation.                                               $1,000.00
 Cementitious Material                Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
 Paints and Solvents                  Per day per violation.                                                $500.00
Solid Waste                        Per day per violation.                                      $500.00
Sanitary Waste                     Per day per violation.                                     $2,000.00
Fuels                              Per day per violation.                                     $1,000.00
Fertilizers                        Per day per violation.                                      $500.00
Organics                           Per day per violation.                                      $250.00
Cleansers                          Per day per violation.                                      $500.00
Hazardous materials                Any illicit discharge may be assigned to this category
                                                                                              $5,000.00
                                   depending on the impact. Per day per violation.




Land Use Fees


Permitted and Conditional Uses


              Fee Type                                      Description                       Amount
Building permit site plan          Over-the-counter staff review. Permitted uses not
                                                                                              $110.00
                                   requiring separate land use permit.
Change of Use Permit               Over-the-counter staff review. Includes tenant changes
                                   and uses subordinate to an existing Conditional Use        $110.00
                                   Permit.
Sign Permit                        Over-the-counter staff review.                             $110.00
Business license review            Over-the-counter staff review.                             $110.00
Accessory Dwelling Unit            Includes limited agency review                             $175.00
Site Plan Review (less than 3
                                   Includes agency review meeting and technical review.       $990.00
acres)
Site Plan Review (3 acres or       Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
                                                                                              $1,640.00
more)                              Planning Commission meeting.
Minor Site Plan Amendments         Limited agency review                                      $175.00
Residential Development
                                   Includes agency review meeting and technical review.       $990.00
(FCOZ)
Foothills/Canyons                  Includes agency review meeting and technical review.       $990.00
                                   Home daycare/pre-school, mobile store, condominium
Simple Conditional Use Permit                                                                 $175.00
                                   conversion, similar uses requiring limited staff review.
                                   Commercial uses, residential uses, or signs needing
Other Conditional Use Permits      conditional use approval. Includes agency review,          $1,640.00
                                   technical review and Planning Commission meeting.


Subdivision and Land Development Permits

              Fee Type                                      Description                       Amount
Minor Subdivision (<5 lots)        Includes agency review meeting and technical review.       $990.00
Major Subdivision (Single          Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
                                                                                              $1,640.00
Phase)                             Planning Commission meeting.
Major Subdivision with Multiple
                                   Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
Phases (Includes Preliminary                                                                  $1,640.00
                                   Planning Commission Meeting
Plat and First Phase Final Plat)
Final Plat Approval for Phases
                                   Includes Technical Review                                  $535.00
Two and Beyond
Planned Unit Development
                                  Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
(Preliminary approval and First                                                                    $1,640.00
                                  Planning Commission meeting.
Phase Final Approval/Plat)
Final Planned Unit Development
Approval for Phases Two and       Includes Technical Review                                         $535.00
Beyond
Subdivision amendments            Includes agency review meeting and technical review. In
                                  some cases, a Planning Commission and/or Mayors
                                                                                                    $990.00
                                  meeting is required. These fees will be added as needed
                                  based on the applicable fees in this fee schedule.
Simple Boundary Adjustment        Includes limited staff review.                                    $100.00
Full Boundary Adjustments         Includes limited staff review. Applicable when amended
                                                                                                    $175.00            Commented [BH2]: Distinction between simple and
                                  plat not necessary.
                                                                                                                       full boundary adjustment as required by SB104
Extension of Time                 Includes review by Director.                                      $275.00



Ordinance Adjustments

            Fee Type                                      Description                               Amount
Text Change                       Includes Planning Commission meeting and Council
                                                                                                    $765.00
                                  meeting.
Zoning Map Change – minor         Changes less than 3 acres. Includes limited staff review,
                                                                                                    $940.00
                                  Planning Commission meeting and Council meeting.
Zoning Map Change – small         Changes 3 up to 10 acres. Includes agency review
                                  meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting and           $1,755.00
                                  Council meeting.
Zoning Map Change – medium        Changes over 10 up to 50 acres. Includes agency review
                                                                                                   $1,755.00
                                  meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting,
                                                                                               plus $200 per acre
                                  Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
Zoning Map Change – large         Changes over 50 up to 100 acres. Includes agency
                                                                                                   $1,755.00
                                  review meeting, staff review, Planning Commission
                                                                                               plus $300 per acre
                                  meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
Zoning Map Change – Major         Changes over 100 acres.                                     To be determined by
                                                                                               agreement between
                                                                                              agency and applicant
                                                                                              prior to acceptance of
                                                                                                  the application.



Other Land Use Applications

            Fee Type                                      Description                                Amount
                                  Needed for appeal of decisions, variances,
Land Use Hearing Officer          nonconforming use expansions, takings relief petition,           $1,000.00 a
                                  etc.
Land Use Hearing Officer          Double fee if construction has started.                           $2,000.00
Administrative Determination      Requires Director review.                                          $275.00
Special Exception to have Use
                                  Planning Commission meeting.                                       $650.00
violation declared legal
                                  Base fee plus costs for research time.                         $25.00 base fee
Zoning Verification Letter
                                                                                               plus $25.00 per hour
                                  Includes limited staff review, Planning Commission
General Plan Amendment                                                                              $2,440.00
                                  meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
    Agency Review Meeting at
                                                Agency Review meeting that includes outside agencies.                                 $455.00
    applicants’ request
    Other applications requiring
                                                Up to 4 total review sessions. Additional charge if 4 total
    preliminary and/or technical                                                                                                      $535.00
                                                sessions exceeded for any application type.
    review.
    Other applications requiring
                                                Planning Commission meeting.                                                          $650.00
    Planning Commission meeting
    Other applications requiring
                                                Council or Mayor’s meeting.                                                           $115.00
    Council or Mayor’s meeting

a     For appeals, if the Land Use Hearing Officer finds in favor of the appellant then the fee shall be refunded less a $100.00 administration fee.
Code Enforcement Fees

             Fee Type                                         Description                                 Amount
 Administrative Citation              All minor violations unless specified otherwise.              $100.00 per violation
                                                                                                      As provided in
 Civil Penalty                        Violations of zoning regulations.
                                                                                                     Section 19.94.070
                                      All violations of the code other than zoning violations and
 Civil Penalties
                                      as otherwise prescribed in the code.
                                                                                                    $100.00 per violation
                                      Violation per day for first 30 days.
                                                                                                          per day
                                                                                                    $150.00 per violation
                                      Violation per day for days 31-60.
                                                                                                          per day
                                                                                                    $200.00 per violation
                                      Violation per day over 60 days.
                                                                                                          per day
                                      Administrative fee plus costs billed from Public Works or      $100.00 plus actual
 Clean-up Fees
                                      other contracted firm.                                               costs




 Short-Term Rental Violations
 Operating short-term rental                                                                        $650.00 per infraction
 without a business license                                                                               per day
 Operating short-term rental for
                                                                                                    $650.00 per infraction
 less than two nights for each
                                                                                                          per day
 stay
 Holding special event at short-                                                                    $650.00 per infraction
 term rental – first violation                                                                            per day
 Holding special event at short-
                                                                                                        $1,300.00 per
 term rental – subsequent
                                                                                                      infraction per day
 violations
                                                                                                    $100.00 per infraction
 Other short-term rental violations   Violations not covered in the above categories.
                                                                                                          per day




Civil Penalties for Violation of Zoning Regulations


Violation of the provisions of Title 19 of the Magna Metro Township Municipal Code shall result in civil penalties pursuant
to the following schedule:
CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS
WARNING PERIOD: 28 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS.
Bond Administration Fees

                  Fee Type                                               Description                                          Amount
    Bond Processing Fee                      Must be paid prior to acceptance of bond.                                        $100.00
                                             Will be called if improvements are not complete by
    Bond Forfeiture                                                                                                           Varies a
                                             expiration date.
    Deferred Curb and Gutter                                                                                                  Varies b
                                             Inspections required for partial bond release or if
    Bond Reinspection                                                                                                         $100.00
                                             applicant fails bond inspections twice.
    Overtime/After-hours Inspection                                                                                    $120.00 (Per hour)
a     Based on bond amount.
b     Based on project size.




Miscellaneous Service Fees

                  Fee Type                                               Description                                          Amount
    Development Agreements                                                                                                    Varies a
                                             Per hour fees for staff time not covered under specific fee
    Hourly Rate                                                                                                          $80.00 per hour
                                             types.
    GRAMA                                    Time spent on research and compiling.                                         Actual cost b
    Material Costs                           Copies, maps, CDs, USB drives, etc.                                           Actual cost b
                                             Research related to administrative decisions, zoning                       $25.00 base fee
    Research                                 compliance letters, or determination of legal status of a
                                             lot or parcel.                                                           plus $25.00 per hour

                                             Activities performed by the Salt Lake County Health
    Health Department Review                                                                                               County fee c
                                             Department.
    Postage                                  For noticing mailings, postage is charged per meeting.                        Actual cost b
    Newspaper Notices                        Notices of meetings before Councils.                                          Actual cost b
    Candidate Filing Fee                     Fee for Declaration of Candidacy in a Municipal Election                          $50.00
a     Development agreements will be determined between local government agency and Applicant prior to acceptance of the application.
b
      Customer will be charged actual costs of materials per MSD Records and Access and Management Policy.
c     Health Department fees will be charged as provided in the Salt Lake County Fee Schedule.




Engineering Fees

The fees below are collected by the MSD on behalf of the Engineering Division.

    Right-of-way Improvement Review & Inspection Fees                                                                         Amount
    Replacement of existing                  Replacement of existing curb & gutter, sidewalk, and
                                                                                                                            No charge
    improvements                             drive approach improvements in the same configuration.
                                             Changes to sidewalks and drive approaches where curb                       $20.00 base fee
    Changes to improvements
                                             & gutter are already present. Includes review and                        plus $1.00 per linear
    (existing curb & gutter)
                                             inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.                           foot
                                               Addition of curb & gutter, sidewalks, and/or drive
    Changes to improvements (no                                                                                               $150.00 base fee
                                               approaches where no curb & gutter or sidewalk are
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                                               plus $1.00 per linear
                                               present. Includes review and inspection by County.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                                       foot
                                               Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                                              $100.00 base fee
    Changes to sidewalk (no existing           Addition of sidewalk only. Includes review and inspection
                                                                                                                            plus $1.00 per linear
    curb & gutter or sidewalk)                 by County. Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                                                    foot
    Changes to drive approach (no                                                                                             $100.00 base fee
                                               Addition of drive approaches only. Includes review and
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                                               plus $0.50 per linear
                                               inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                                       foot
    Engineering Plan Check Fees                                                                                                     Amount
                                               Engineering check fee, final subdivision fee and plat filing
    For Subdivision Development                                                                                                   Calculated a
                                               for subdivisions
    Amended Subdivision Plat                                                                                                        $400.00
                                                                                                                             $150 upon submittal
    Non-Subdivision Development
                                                                                                                              then Calculated b
    Other Fees                                                                                                                      Amount
    Road Dedication (non-
                                               Where required for street widening and improvements.                                 $150.00
    subdivision development)
                                               Includes sign and installation by MSD or contracted
    Street Sign                                                                                                                     $200.00
                                               service provider
    Geology/Natural Hazard Review Fees                                                                                              Amount
                                               Determination of whether project falls within boundaries
    Initial Site Assessment                                                                                                         $200.00
                                               of any mapped hazards.
                                                                                                                             Actual cost of third-
                                                                                                                              party review plus
    Review of Technical Report                 Coordination and review of third-party technical report.                       $300.00 agency
                                                                                                                                   review

    Traffic Impact Review Fees                                                                                                      Amount
    Initial Site Assessment                    Determination of whether project meets TIS threshold.                                $200.00
                                                                                                                             Actual cost of third-
                                                                                                                              party review plus
    Review of Technical Report                 Coordination and review of third-party technical report.
                                                                                                                             $100 agency review

a     Prior to review, 35% of 6% of improvement estimate, default of $90 per lot, minimum of $10 or the appropriate calculation. Prior to recording or
      construction, 100% of 6% of improvement estimate minus fee already paid.
b
      Prior to approval or construction, 4.5% of total improvement estimate for off-site, and on-site storm drainage minus $150 fee already paid.



Public Works – Engineering Special Events


    Special Events within the following areas require the submittal of an application: Town of Brighton, Emigration Canyon,
    Kearns, Magna, Unincorporated Salt Lake County, and White City.

    Insurance certificates, maps, and fees will need to be submitted to the Permit Specialist before your request can be
    fully processed. See fee schedule below.

    Special Event Permit Fees

    # of Participants                                                            Fee per day

    0 to 100                                                                     $50.00
100 to 200                                                   $100.00

200 to 400                                                   $200.00

400 to 600                                                   $500.00

Over 600                                                     $1,000.00

Filming Fees                                                 $200.00



   •   $50 fee for Big Cottonwood Canyon and any Unincorporated Salt Lake County areas.

   •   Special events or Filming held on any state roadway(s) may also require an additional permit from Utah
       Department of Transportation.

   •   Special events or Filming held in any canyon may also require an additional permit from United States
       Department of Agriculture, Forest Service Division.

   •   Sponsors of block parties will also be required to submit paperwork with the signatures of affected
       neighbors' concurrence of the road closure. This paperwork should reflect the addresses of each resident,
       as well as their signature indicating agreement for the road closure. Barricades and security are the
       responsibility of the applicant.
Glossary of Terms


Condominium Plat: The procedure to review and record a condominium plat is subject to the Condominium Ownership
Act (57.8- Utah Code). Staff review includes addressing all units, a review to verify compliance with the zoning ordinance
and conditions of approval previously imposed and an engineering review to verify compliance with platting requirements.
Director: The Director of Planning and Development or designee.
General Plan Amendment: Planning Commissions make a recommendation to the Council who must authorize
Amendments to a General Plan. A study that includes public involvement is conducted after Council gives the direction to
proceed to the Development Services Director.
Home Daycare I Pre-school Application Fees: Although a home daycare or pre-school may be operated out of a private
residence, it is not considered or reviewed in the same manner as a home business. Therefore, they are listed separately
in the fee schedule and in the ordinance.

Modification to a Recorded Subdivision Plat: Utah Code requires a specific process be followed to amend, vacate or
alter a recorded subdivision plat. This involves application, notice, a public hearing before the planning commission and
executive (commonly referred to as a 608 hearing/ Mayor's Meeting). Additionally, an engineering review of the
preliminary and final plat prior to approval and recording is required. Fees may include Planning Commission Review,
Additional Public Body Review, Technical Review.

MSD: Means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, which the Town of _____ has contracted with to provide
planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services
PUD (Planned Unit Development): In those zones which allow development of a PUD they are listed as a Conditional
Use, which requires review by the Planning Commission. For developers who intend to sell individual lots within the PUD
both the Planning Commission Review, Conditional Use and a Subdivision Preliminary Plat review would be required ,
and a Technical Review prior to final approval is also required. Per the fee schedule each of these reviews requires
separate fee.
Additionally, because more than one review process is required the application would also involve an Agency Review
Meeting. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Review (Conditional Use), Planning
Commission Review (Preliminary Plat), Technical Review.
The conditional use approval (Planning Commission approval) is required prior to preparation of the subdivision
preliminary plat to ensure that the recommendations of the Planning Commission are properly incorporated into the
preliminary plat.

Re-Zone (Zoning Map Amendment): A request to change the existing zoning (re-zone) requires: review and
recommendation from the planning commission (Public Body Review) and final decision by the council (Additional Public
Body Review)and technical work (Technical Review) for map and index work).
Signs: Signs vary in the type and complexity of review process required therefore they are listed under several review
types. It is intended that the fees are assessed per review process and not per sign. For example, a business that had 2
signs requiring Planning Commission review would be charged for 1 Planning Commission review. However, a business
which had 1 sign which required Planning Commission review and another sign which did not would be charged for 1
Planning Commission review and 1 staff review.
Subdivision: A request to subdivide property requires review and approval of a preliminary plat, and a Technical Review
of the Final Plat. Additionally, an Agency Review Meeting is required. Note that in the case of a "one-lot" subdivision there
might also be an Administrative Review for the proposed Single-Family Dwelling. Fees may include: Agency Coordination
Meeting, Planning Commission Meeting, Technical Review, Staff Review of a Site Plan.
Valuation: The estimated construction cost for a project.
