                                                                                               Formatted: Header


Chapter 19.02                                                                                  Style Definition               ...
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
General Provisions and Administration
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
19.02.010 - Title For Citation                                                                 Style Definition               ...
This title shall be Title is known as the "Uniform"The Zoning Ordinance of the Emigration      Style Definition               ...
Canyon Metro Township, Utah," and may be so citedCity" and pleaded. This title shall also      Style Definition               ...
be knownis referred to herein as Title “the Ordinance” or “this Ordinance.”                    Style Definition               ...
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
19.02.020 - Reserved
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
19.02.030 - Purpose 19.02.020 Purpose Of Provisions                                            Style Definition               ...
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
The Ordinance is intended to promote and support the goals and policies of the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of Ordinances.                                           Style Definition               ...

This title is designedCity’s General Plan, and enacted for the purpose of                      Style Definition               ...

promotingfollowing purposes:                                                                   Style Definition               ...
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
   1. To promote the general health, safety, morals, conveniences, order, prosperity and
                                                                                               Style Definition               ...
      welfare of the present and future inhabitants, businesses, and visitors of
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
      Emigration Canyon Metro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
      congestion in the streets or roads, securing,
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
   2. To support small-scale economic opportunities and business that promote                  Formatted: Font: Arial
      outdoor recreation, community services for residents, environmental                      Formatted: Font: Arial
      preservation, or sustainable transportation,                                             Formatted: Font: Arial

   3. To support sustainable and responsible recreation,                                       Formatted: Font: Arial, Bold
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
   4. To regulate responsible alteration and development of land that promotes safety
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
      for people, wildlife, water, and the natural landscape.
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
   5. To provide for well-planned commercial and residential centers, safe and efficient       Formatted: Font: Arial
      traffic and pedestrian circulation, preservation of night skies and efficient delivery   Formatted: Font: Arial
      of municipal services,
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
   6. To secure safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and air,          Formatted: Font: Arial
      classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization,        Formatted: Font: Arial
      protection of the tax base, securing economy in governmental expenditures,
      fostering the Metro Township's agricultural and other industries, and the protection
      of both urban and non-urban and
                                                                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
   7. To regulate housing and development to reduce impacts on the environment.                Formatted: Font: Arial

19.02.030 Interpretation As Minimum Requirements (renumbered 19.02.110)                        Formatted                      ...
                                                                                               Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                     Formatted: Header


19.02.040 - Applicability
A. Territorial Application. All land and parcels of real property within the jurisdictional limits
   of the Emigration Canyon City is covered by the provisions of this Ordinance.
B. General Applicability.
       1. The regulations contained in this Ordinance apply to all uses, structures, and             Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.5", No bullets or
       parcels of real property, including those recorded prior to the enactment of this
       Ordinance.
       2. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this                Formatted: Numbered + Level: 1 + Numbering Style:
          Ordinance. Except for dwelling groups, not more than one (1) dwelling structure            1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 2 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at:
                                                                                                     0.5" + Indent at: 0.75"
          may occupy one (1) lot.
C. General Prohibition. No portion or whole of any structure or land may be used,
   occupied, constructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered except as provided by
   this Ordinance. Land needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
   requirements of this Title for a lot or building shall not be sold or conveyed away from
   such lot or building.
D. Private Agreements. This Ordinance is not intended to enforce any private agreement
   or covenant. If this Ordinance is more restrictive than a private agreement or covenant,
   this Ordinance prevails.
E. Other Laws and Regulations. This Ordinance controls over less restrictive State or
   municipal statutes, ordinances, or regulations.



19.02.040 Resolution Of Conflicts (Included in E. above)

This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, other
ordinances, or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less
restrictive.

19.02.050 Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps (Included in substance in 19.02.060
below)

The existing ordinances of the Metro Township covering the zoning of areas and districts in
Emigration Canyon Metro Township, in their entirety and including the maps theretofore
adopted and made a part of such ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended to read
as set forth in this title; provided, however that this title, including the maps on file with the
planning commission and by this reference made a part hereof, shall be deemed a
continuation of previous ordinances, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of
                                                                                                     Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                  Formatted: Header


revisions of previous ordinances is included in this title, whether in the same or in different
language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction, including
but not limited to questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances, and to questions of conforming or nonconforming
uses, buildings or structures, and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses,
buildings or structures became conforming or nonconforming.

19.02.060 Licensing Requirements (renumbered 19.02.120)

19.02.050 - Transition Rules
A. In those instances where this Ordinance conflicts with previously applicable zoning
   regulations, the following rules apply:
   1. Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots consolidated into one
      taxable parcel may not be re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area
      required in the underlying zone.
   2. Previously Issued Building Permits. If a building permit for a structure was
      lawfully issued prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or any amendments to
      this Ordinance, and if construction has begun within one hundred and eighty
      (180) days of the issuance of that permit, the structure may be completed in
      accordance with the plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued
      and upon completion may be occupied under an occupancy permit for the use
      originally intended.
   3. Previously Granted Approvals.
      a. All approvals granted prior to the effective date of this Ordinance remain in full
          force and effect. The recipient of the approval may proceed to develop the
          property in accordance with the approved plans and any applicable
          conditions.
      b. If the recipient has failed to act on an approval before the approval expires,
          including any periods of extension granted, the provisions of this Ordinance
          control.


19.02.060 - Inactive Applications
Applications for property development and/or use permits shall be actively pursued to a
final decision by the town. If no activity such as plan submittals, reviews, meetings, or
communication by the applicant has occurred on an application for one hundred eighty
(180) days, the application will be deemed as inactive, and the file closed. The applicant
may submit a written request to maintain the application as active, wherein upon finding
that there is good cause and reasonable belief that the application will be pursued to
                                                                                                  Formatted: Footer
                                                                                            Formatted: Header


completion, the Director, or their designee may grant a one-time ninety (90) day
extension. Once a file is closed, an applicant will be required to reapply for permits or
development.
19.02.070 - Severability
If any provision of this Ordinance is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, that judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining
provisions of this Ordinance. The effect of the judgment is confined to the provision
immediately involved in the controversy in which the judgment or decree was rendered.
19.02.080 - Vesting
A. An Applicant is entitled to a substantive review and approval of a land Use              Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   Application if the Application conforms to the requirements of the Town’s Land Use       1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
                                                                                            Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Tab after: 0.5" +
   and Zoning Maps, the municipal specification for public improvements application to      Indent at: 0.25"
   a Subdivision or Development, and the applicable land Use ordinance in effect when
                                                                                            Formatted: Font: Arial
   a Complete Application is submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:
                                                                                            Formatted: Font: Arial
   1. the land Use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling, countervailing
      public interest would be jeopardized by approving the Application; or
   2. before the Application is submitted, the municipality has formally initiated
      proceedings by publicly noticing an amendment to its ordinances in a manner
      that would prohibit approval of the Application as submitted.
B. The municipality shall process an Application without regard to proceedings initiated
   to amend the municipality’s ordinances if:
   1. 180 days have passed since the proceedings were initiated; and
   2. The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the
      Application as submitted.
C. An Application for a Land Use approval is considered, submitted and complete when        Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial
   the Application is provided in a form that complies with the requirements of             Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   applicable ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.                            1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
                                                                                            Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Tab after: 0.5" +
D. The continuing validity of an approval of a land Use Application is conditioned upon
                                                                                            Indent at: 0.25"
   the Applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable
   diligence.
E. A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land Use
   ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.



                                                                                            Formatted: Footer
                                                                                              Formatted: Header


19.02.090 - Building and Use Permits Required
Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part         Formatted: Font: Arial
thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded
with except after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the building official.
The use of the land shall not be commenced or proceeded with except upon the
issuance of a written permit for the same by the Director or designee.
19.02.100 - Time Computation (renumbered from 19.02.070)

   A. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of the     Formatted: Font: Arial
      act, event or decision after which the designated period of time begins to run is
      not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included,
      unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the period runs
      until the end of the next day, which is neither a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday.
      When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
      intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
      computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
      holiday.
   B. The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission shall be            Formatted: Font: Arial
the date of the public meeting or hearing such decision or recommendation is made. If
the decision is made by the development services director, the date of the decision shall
be the date specified on the property owner's notification letter in the application file.    Formatted: Font: Bold

19.02.110 - Interpretation as Minimum Requirements (renumbered from 19.02.030)
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements contained         Formatted: Font: Arial
herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth.
19.02.120 - Licensing Requirements (renumbered from 19.02.060)
All departments, officials and public employees of the City which are vested with the duty
or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this title and
shall issue no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the same would be
in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in
conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.
19.02.080 Site Plans Required--Contents (renumbered to 19.02.150)

19.02.100 Compliance Prerequisite To Permit Issuance (renumbered to 19.02.160)

19.02.110 Improvements--Performance Bonds (renumbered to 19.02.160)



                                                                                              Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                 Formatted: Header


19.02.120 Development Standards

The planning commission may adopt development standards for use as a guide in
conditional use review and subdivision design, and for use in site plan review for single-
family dwellings in forest and recreation zones.


19.02.130 - Land Use Applications
The Director of Planning and Development Services ("the Director") or the director's             Formatted: Font: Arial
designee shall be the administrator of the Emigration Canyon Metro TownshipCity                  Formatted: Font: Arial
zoning ordinance. In order to assure that each proposed land use or proposed
amendment to an existing land use is handled consistently and fully complies with the
provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall administer application and
review procedures as outlined herein unless specific procedures are otherwise provided
in the zoning ordinance. Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the
applicant to ensure that any action taken to approve or deny an application is based on
current information. An application shall not be considered complete until all application       Formatted: Font: Arial

fees have been paid and all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a             Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
                                                                                                 1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
partial fee and preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a
                                                                                                 Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Tab after: 0.5" +
complete application. The land use application process shall consist of the following:           Indent at: 0.25"

1.A.   An application procedure, which shall include:                                            Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the directorDirector or                  2 + Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 +
      director's designee, which clearly indicates the type and purpose of the                   Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.25" + Tab after: 0.75"
                                                                                                 + Indent at: 0.5"
      application, property address, and applicant information;
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   2. Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of             Formatted: Font: Arial
      site plans, building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;       Formatted: Font: Arial

   3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.                           Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
                                                                                                 1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
2.B.   A review procedure, which may include:                                                    Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Tab after: 0.5" +
                                                                                                 Indent at: 0.25"
   1. The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can          Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
      refer to the proposed land use;                                                            2 + Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 +
                                                                                                 Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.25" + Tab after: 0.75"
   2. An on-site review by the directorDirector or director's designee as allowed in             + Indent at: 0.5"

      Utah Code 10-9a-303;                                                                       Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
      ordinance;
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                 Formatted: Header


   4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or
      affected entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public
      and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;           Formatted: Font: Arial

3.C.   An approval procedure, which shall include:                                               Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   1. The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and
                                                                                                 1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
      affected entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan   Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Tab after: 0.5" +
      and/or elevations;                                                                         Indent at: 0.25"
                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   2. An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of          2 + Numbering Style: 1, 2, 3, … + Start at: 1 +
      the application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with            Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.25" + Tab after: 0.75"
      all applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations;                                         + Indent at: 0.5"
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   3. Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the
      applicant in a timely manner.                                                              Formatted: Font: Arial

19.02.140 - Improvements--Performance Bonds (renumbered from 19.02.110)
A. Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission, including           Formatted: Font: Arial
   but not limited to curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets, fire              Formatted: List Paragraph, Outline numbered + Level:
   hydrants and parking, shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the Metro TownshipCity       1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
                                                                                                 Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0" + Indent at: 0.25"
   authorizing electrical service being provided; or, if no electrical service is required,
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the land being developed. In lieu of
   actual completion of such improvements, or in the case of landscaping, in addition
   to, except where seasonal considerations reasonably preclude installation of live
   plant materials, and prior to electrical service being provided or occupancy permit, a
   developer may file with the council chairDirector or his designee a cash or surety            Formatted: Font: Arial
   bond or escrow agreement or letter of credit, in an amount specified by the council           Formatted: Font: Arial
   chairDirector or his designee, to ensure completion of improvements within one year.          Formatted: Font: Arial
   Twenty-fiveTen percent (10%) of the bond amount for public improvements, such as              Formatted: Font: Arial
   curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall extend for a one-year         Formatted: Font: Arial
   period beyond the date the improvements are completed, to guarantee replacement               Formatted: Font: Arial
   of such defective public improvements. Twenty-fiveTen percent (10%) of the bond               Formatted: Font: Arial
   amount for live plant materials shall extend for a twoone-year period beyond the
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants. Upon
                                                                                                 Formatted: Font: Arial
   completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has been
   filed, the developer shall call for inspections of the improvements by the
   development services director or his authorized agent. Director or designee.                  Formatted: Font: Arial

B. If the council chairDirector or designee determines that the required improvements            Formatted: Font: Arial
   should be completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a one-year period
   in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the Metro TownshipCity or its           Formatted: Font: Arial
                                                                                                 Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                   Formatted: Header


   residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other hazards, the council chairDirector or          Formatted: Font: Arial
   designee may require in approving the bond that the improvements be installed in a
   specified sequence and period which may be less than one year and shall
   incorporate such requirements in the bond.                                                      Formatted: Font: Arial

C. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set                Formatted: Font: Arial
forth in Chapter 3.56 of this code.
D. When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose            Formatted: Font: Arial
district or other political subdivision of the state, the council chairMayor may waive the         Formatted: Font: Arial
bond and accept a letter from the governing body guaranteeing installation of the
improvements. Before approving any such waiver, the council chairMayor shall receive               Formatted: Font: Arial
a recommendation from the public works directorMunicipal Engineer.                                 Formatted: Font: Arial

19.02.150 Site Plans Required--Contents (renumbered from 19.02.080)

A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director)
shall be filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit. The
site plan shall show, where pertinent:

   1. Note of scale used;

   2. Direction of North point;

   3. Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;

   4. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties
      (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc);

   5. Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of
      all signs;

   6. Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb,
      gutter, and sidewalk location;

   7. Necessary explanatory notes;

   8. Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner;

   9. All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.



19.02.160 Compliance Prerequisite To Permit Issuance (renumbered from 19.02.100)


                                                                                                   Formatted: Footer
                                                                                                 Formatted: Header


1. No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building
   official. The building official shall not approve a building permit if any building, struc-
   ture or use of land would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall
   any other Metro TownshipCity officer grant any permit or license nor the use of any
   building or land if use would be in violation of this title.

2. Neither the building official nor any other Metro TownshipCity officer shall grant any
   permit, license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter
   9.25, entitled "Water Source Protection."




                                                                                                 Formatted: Footer
