                                        Chapter 19.02
                         General Provisions and Administration
19.02.010 - Title For Citation
This Title is known as "The Zoning Ordinance of the Emigration Canyon City" and is
referred to herein as “the Ordinance” or “this Ordinance.”
19.02.020 - Reserved
19.02.030 - Purpose
A. The Ordinance is intended to promote and support the goals and policies of the
   Emigration Canyon City’s General Plan, and for the following purposes:
   1. To promote the general health, safety and welfare of the present and future
      inhabitants, businesses, and visitors of Emigration Canyon,
   2. To support small-scale economic opportunities and business that promote outdoor
      recreation, community services for residents, environmental preservation, or
      sustainable transportation,
   3. To support sustainable and responsible recreation,
   4. To regulate responsible alteration and development of land that promotes safety
      for people, wildlife, water, and the natural landscape.
   5. To provide for well-planned commercial and residential centers, safe and efficient
      traffic and pedestrian circulation, preservation of night skies and efficient delivery
      of municipal services,
   6. To secure safety from fire and other dangers, and
   7. To regulate housing and development to reduce impacts on the environment.
19.02.040 - Applicability
A. Territorial Application. All land and parcels of real property within the jurisdictional limits
   of the Emigration Canyon City is covered by the provisions of this Ordinance.
B. General Applicability.
   .   The regulations contained in this Ordinance apply to all uses, structures, and
       parcels of real property, including those recorded prior to the enactment of this
       Ordinance.
   .   Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this
       Ordinance. Except for dwelling groups, not more than one (1) dwelling structure
       may occupy one (1) lot.
C. General Prohibition. No portion or whole of any structure or land may be used,
   occupied, constructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered except as provided by
   this Ordinance. Land needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
   requirements of this Title for a lot or building shall not be sold or conveyed away from
   such lot or building.
D. Private Agreements. This Ordinance is not intended to enforce any private agreement
   or covenant. If this Ordinance is more restrictive than a private agreement or covenant,
   this Ordinance prevails.
E. Other Laws and Regulations. This Ordinance controls over less restrictive State or
   municipal statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
19.02.050 - Transition Rules
A. In those instances where this Ordinance conflicts with previously applicable zoning
   regulations, the following rules apply:
   1. Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots consolidated into one taxable
      parcel may not be re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area required in
      the underlying zone.
   2. Previously Issued Building Permits. If a building permit for a structure was lawfully
      issued prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or any amendments to this
      Ordinance, and if construction has begun within one hundred and eighty (180)
      days of the issuance of that permit, the structure may be completed in accordance
      with the plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued and upon
      completion may be occupied under an occupancy permit for the use originally
      intended.
   3. Previously Granted Approvals.
       a. All approvals granted prior to the effective date of this Ordinance remain in full
          force and effect. The recipient of the approval may proceed to develop the
          property in accordance with the approved plans and any applicable conditions.
       b. If the recipient has failed to act on an approval before the approval expires,
          including any periods of extension granted, the provisions of this Ordinance
          control.
19.02.060 - Inactive Applications
Applications for property development and/or use permits shall be actively pursued to a
final decision by the town. If no activity such as plan submittals, reviews, meetings, or
communication by the applicant has occurred on an application for one hundred eighty
(180) days, the application will be deemed as inactive, and the file closed. The applicant
may submit a written request to maintain the application as active, wherein upon finding
that there is good cause and reasonable belief that the application will be pursued to
completion, the Director, or their designee may grant a one-time ninety (90) day
extension. Once a file is closed, an applicant will be required to reapply for permits or
development.
19.02.070 - Severability
If any provision of this Ordinance is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, that judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions
of this Ordinance. The effect of the judgment is confined to the provision immediately
involved in the controversy in which the judgment or decree was rendered.
19.02.080 - Vesting
A. An Applicant is entitled to a substantive review and approval of a land Use Application
   if the Application conforms to the requirements of the Town’s Land Use and Zoning
   Maps, the municipal specification for public improvements application to a Subdivision
   or Development, and the applicable land Use ordinance in effect when a Complete
   Application is submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:
   1. the land Use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling, countervailing public
      interest would be jeopardized by approving the Application; or
   2. before the Application is submitted, the municipality has formally initiated
      proceedings by publicly noticing an amendment to its ordinances in a manner that
      would prohibit approval of the Application as submitted.
B. The municipality shall process an Application without regard to proceedings initiated
   to amend the municipality’s ordinances if:
   1. 180 days have passed since the proceedings were initiated; and
   2. The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the
      Application as submitted.
C. An Application for a Land Use approval is considered, submitted and complete when
   the Application is provided in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable
   ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.
D. The continuing validity of an approval of a land Use Application is conditioned upon
   the Applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable
   diligence.
E. A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land Use ordinances
   and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.
19.02.090 - Building and Use Permits Required
Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part thereof,
as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with except
after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the building official. The use of the
land shall not be commenced or proceeded with except upon the issuance of a written
permit for the same by the Director or designee.
19.02.100 - Time Computation
A. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of the act,
   event or decision after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
   included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
   Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the
   next day, which is neither a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday. When the period of time
   prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and
   holidays shall be excluded in the computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as
   other days and not as a holiday.
B. The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission shall be the
   date of the public meeting or hearing such decision or recommendation is made. If the
   decision is made by the development services director, the date of the decision shall
   be the date specified on the property owner's notification letter in the application file.
19.02.110 - Interpretation as Minimum Requirements
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements contained herein
are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth.
19.02.120 - Licensing Requirements
All departments, officials and public employees of the City which are vested with the duty
or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this title and
shall issue no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the same would be
in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in
conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.
19.02.130 - Land Use Applications
The Director of Planning and Development Services ("the Director") or the director's
designee shall be the administrator of the Emigration Canyon City zoning ordinance. In
order to assure that each proposed land use or proposed amendment to an existing land
use is handled consistently and fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director
or director's designee shall administer application and review procedures as outlined
herein unless specific procedures are otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the applicant to ensure that
any action taken to approve or deny an application is based on current information. An
application shall not be considered complete until all application fees have been paid and
all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and preliminary
plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application. The land use
application process shall consist of the following:
A. An application procedure, which shall include:
   1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or designee, which
      clearly indicates the type and purpose of the application, property address, and
      applicant information;
   2. Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site
      plans, building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
   3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.
B. A review procedure, which may include:
   1. The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can refer
      to the proposed land use;
   2. An on-site review by the Director or designee as allowed in Utah Code 10-9a-303;
   3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning
      ordinance;
   4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or
      affected entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public
      and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;
C. An approval procedure, which shall include:
   1. The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and
      affected entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan
      and/or elevations;
   2. An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of
      the application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with
      all applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations;
   3. Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the
      applicant in a timely manner.
19.02.140 - Improvements--Performance Bonds
A. Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission, including
   but not limited to curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets, fire hydrants
   and parking, shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the City authorizing electrical
   service being provided; or, if no electrical service is required, prior to issuance of any
   occupancy permit for the land being developed. In lieu of actual completion of such
   improvements, or in the case of landscaping, in addition to, except where seasonal
   considerations reasonably preclude installation of live plant materials, and prior to
   electrical service being provided or occupancy permit, a developer may file with the
   Director or designee a cash or surety bond or escrow agreement or letter of credit, in
   an amount specified by the Director or designee, to ensure completion of
   improvements within one year. Ten percent (10%) of the bond amount for public
   improvements, such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall
   extend for a one-year period beyond the date the improvements are completed, to
   guarantee replacement of such defective public improvements. Ten percent (10%) of
   the bond amount for live plant materials shall extend for a one-year period beyond the
   date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants. Upon
   completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has been filed,
   the developer shall call for inspections of the improvements by the Director or
   designee.
B. If the Director or designee determines that the required improvements should be
   completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a one-year period in order to
   protect the health, safety and welfare of the City or its residents from traffic, flood,
   drainage or other hazards, the Director or designee may require in approving the bond
   that the improvements be installed in a specified sequence and period which may be
   less than one year and shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.
C. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set
   forth in Chapter 3.56 of this code.
D. When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose
   district or other political subdivision of the state, the Mayor may waive the bond and
   accept a letter from the governing body guaranteeing installation of the improvements.
   Before approving any such waiver, the Mayor shall receive a recommendation from
   the Municipal Engineer.


19.02.150 Site Plans Required--Contents

A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director)
shall be filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit. The
site plan shall show, where pertinent:

   1. Note of scale used;

   2. Direction of North point;

   3. Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;

   4. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties
      (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc);

   5. Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of
      all signs;

   6. Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb,
      gutter, and sidewalk location;

   7. Necessary explanatory notes;

   8. Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner;

   9. All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.



19.02.160 Compliance Prerequisite To Permit Issuance (renumbered from 19.02.100)

   1. No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building
      official. The building official shall not approve a building permit if any building, struc-
      ture or use of land would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall
      any other Metro TownshipCity officer grant any permit or license nor the use of any
      building or land if use would be in violation of this title.

   2. Neither the building official nor any other Metro TownshipCity officer shall grant any
      permit, license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter
      9.25, entitled "Water Source Protection."
