                                      EMIGRATION CANYON
                                 CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA
                                           AUGUST 26, 2025
                                    Unified Fire Authority Station 119
                                    5025 E Emigration Canyon Road
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84108



PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Emigration Canyon Council will hold a meeting
at 7:00 PM on the 26th day of August 2025 at the Emigration Canyon Fire Station, 5025 E
Emigration Canyon Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108 as follows:

** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

7:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
 1. Call to Order and Determine Quorum
 2. Pledge of Allegiance
 3. Recognize Visiting Officials

4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
   Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
   is authorized by the Governing Body.

5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
   A. Unified Police Department (UPD) – Detective Dawn Larsen
   B. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) – Chief Bryan Case
   C. Salt Lake County Animal Services – Gary Bowen

6. PROJECT UPDATES - None

7. CONSENT AGENDA
   A. Approval of Council Meeting Minutes
      1. November 19, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes

8. PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS - None

9. PRESENTATION ITEMS
   A. Granite School District Presentation on a Potential District Split and Population Analysis
      Study – Benjamin Horsley, Superintendent

10. COUNCIL BUSINESS: (Discussion/Motion)
    A. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-10, Updated Fee Schedule –
       Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
    B. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-08, an Ordinance Repealing and
       Replacing Emigration Canyon’s Special Event Code Chapter 14.56 – Cameron Platt, Legal
       Counsel
                                               1
   C. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-05, Ordinance Eliminating the
      Agricultural Exemption to the Requirement for Building and Land use Permits in Section
      19.02.090 of the Emigration Canyon Code and Repealing and Replacing Chapter 19.02
      General Provisions and Administration of the Emigration Canyon Code – Brian Tucker,
      Planning Manager
   D. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-09, Rezone RM Parcel to A-20 –
      Brian Tucker, Planning Manager
   E. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-07, An Ordinance Repealing and
      Replacing Chapter 19.88, Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures of the
      Emigration Canyon Code – Brian Tucker, Planning Manager
   F. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-06, An Ordinance Repealing
      Chapters 19.08, 19.44, 19.56, and 19.86 of Title 19 of the Emigration Canyon Zoning
      Ordinance – Brian Tucker, Planning Manager
   G. Discussion and Possible Action on a Lease Renewal for the 6291 E. Emigration Road
      Property – Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
   H. Discussion Regarding Micropaving – Stephen Kuhlmeier, Salt Lake County
   I. Discussion and Possible Adoption of Ordinance 2025-O-11, Regarding Stage 2 Fire
      Restrictions - Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
   J. Dark Sky License Plate Initiative Updates – Council Member Catherine Harris
   K. Discussion Regarding Dogwalkers and Dog Waste Dispensers – Council Member Catherine
      Harris
   L. House Bill 48 Updates (Wildland Urban Interface Modification)– Council Member
      Catherine Harris
   M. Healthy Utah Designation Updates – Council Member Robert Pinon
   N. Discussion and Possible Action Regarding Franchise and MET Taxes – Mayor Joe Smolka

11. CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (Discussion/Motion)

12. COUNCIL REPORTS
    A. Council Member Brems
            1. Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
                Area (SLVLESA)
            2. Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
            3. Community Renewable Energy Program
    B. Council Member Harris
            1. Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)
            2. Watershed Plan
    C. Council Member Pinon
            1. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
            2. Utah Broadband
            3. Update on Possible High-Density Development
    D. Deputy Mayor Hawkes
            1. Website (www.emigration.utah.gov)
            2. CodeRED
            3. Association of Municipal Governments
            4. Utah League of Cities and Townes
    E. Mayor Smolka
            1. Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)
            2. Landfill Council

                                           2
              3. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee
              4. Council of Governments (COG)
              5. Legislative Updates

13. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
    Comments should be limited to no more than three (3) minutes per person unless additional time
    is authorized by the Governing Body.

14. FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS

15. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
    205
    A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
        individual.
    B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
    C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
    D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
    E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

16. ADJOURN

   ZOOM MEETING:

   Topic: Emigration Canyon City Council Meeting
   Time: August 26, 2025, 7:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
   Join Zoom Meeting:
   https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87013454018?pwd=q91NDapMtS0iDb5mpiFbK1t7TM9r5A.1

   Meeting ID: 870 1345 4018
   Passcode: 777539

   Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
   assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

   Posted on: August 25, 2025




                                               3
                EMIGRATION CANYON
                CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                 NOVEMBER 19, 2024, 7:00 PM
                 UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY STATION 119
                 5025 E. EMIGRATION CANYON ROAD, SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84108

                        **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**
                EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                               NOVEMBER 19, 2024

Council Members Present:
Joe Smolka, Mayor
Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
Robert Pinon, Council Member
David Brems, Council Member
Catherine Harris, Council Member

Staff Present:
Cameron Platt, Legal Counsel
Nicole Smedley, Recorder

Others Present:
Dawn Larsen, Unified Police Department
Chief Petty-Brown, Unified Police Department
Gary Bowen, Salt Lake County Animal Services Representative

1. Welcome and Determine Quorum

Mayor Smolka, presiding, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

2. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was not recited as the flag was closed off in a separate portion of the
building that was not accessible at the time of the meeting.

3. Recognize Visiting Officials - None

4. Citizen Public Input – None



Before moving on to reports from Municipal Providers, Mayor Smolka provided some quick
updates on current projects in the canyon. He provided an update on the road widening
project, which would extend from approximately 5655 on the main road (near the Red Wall) to


                            EMIGRATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR JOE SMOLKA, DEPUTY MAYOR JENNIFER HAWKES,
              COUNCIL MEMBER CATHERINE HARRIS, COUNCIL MEMBER ROBERT PINON,
                              COUNCIL MEMBER DAVID BREMS
                                                  2


the junction of Pinecrest. He explained that the Municipal Services District (MSD) had
accepted the federal and state agreement for the project, allowing planning work to move
forward. Mayor Smolka emphasized that engineering plans could not be developed until the
necessary funding was secured, as the money was required to pay for the planning process.
He mentioned a priority to replace the culvert near Quarter Mile Lane because it was out of
compliance for flood control and frequently clogged, as well as to conduct slope stabilization
work near Pinecrest. An open house for public input was anticipated between spring and
summer of 2025, with construction expected to begin in 2026 and possibly extend into 2027.
He also indicated the likelihood of adding a bike lane in some areas of the canyon.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes questioned why the culvert project was not listed under
capital improvements and sought clarification on whether it would occur before full funding was
in place. Mayor Smolka explained that the intention was to include it in the project plan.

During public comment, a resident asked whether engineering plans already existed. Mayor
Smolka reiterated that no plans could be made until funding was secured, which had been
approved by the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) and accepted by the MSD Board.
Another resident asked whether accepting the funding committed the community to the entire
project. Council Member Hawkes explained that the process began with acquiring funds for a
feasibility study, followed by planning if the study determined the project could move forward.

Council Member David Brems confirmed the need to first complete the study and initial plans,
which would then be available for review and potential changes based on feedback. He
assured residents there would be multiple opportunities for input and expressed interest in
traveling through the canyon with community members as part of the process. Residents
suggested forming a steering committee, and Council Member Brems responded positively to
the idea of collaborative engagement. Mayor Smolka cautioned that no definitive information
existed yet about specific impacts, such as property loss, and reiterated that the council and
community would have significant opportunities for input. Council Member Brems closed by
affirming that public engagement would be ongoing throughout the project’s development.

5. Reports from other Municipal Providers

   5.1 Unified Police Department

Detective Dawn Larsen reported that there had been 64 calls for service during the past
month, 14 of which required formal reports. One incident involved a fleeing suspect
encountered by Officer Wilson, who was unable to apprehend the individual. Another incident
was a warrant service requested by Summit County, during which a subject with an active
arrest warrant was taken into custody. A small bicycle race took place in the area without
requiring road closures and without incident. A call was received regarding a dirt bike on the
Miners Trail, and the reporting party provided high-quality photographs of both the rider and a
driver’s license. This evidence allowed officers to issue a citation to the rider. She also
provided an update on traffic statistics, noting that the current trailer used for monitoring was
unable to register vehicles traveling under 15 miles per hour. As a result, days when the road
was closed showed the lowest vehicle counts.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  3


Mayor Joe Smolka inquired about lowering the threshold, but Detective Larsen explained that it
was a limitation of the equipment design. Officer Wilson had identified inconsistencies in the
recorded data, leading Detective Larsen to contact the Utah Department of Transportation to
determine whether they had a traffic counter in the area, though she did not believe they did.

Chief Petty-Brown added that Holladay City used a system called Custom Signals, which
functions similarly to the existing trailer by counting vehicles, recording traffic volume by day
and hour, and logging speed data including maximum, average, and median speeds. However,
this system also would not record vehicles traveling under 15 miles per hour. He noted that the
equipment cost approximately $2,500 in 2020, though the price was likely higher now.

Council Member Catherine Harris suggested positioning the trailer before areas where traffic
typically slows, such as near Little Mountain, so that vehicles would be traveling above 15
miles per hour when recorded. Chief Petty-Brown responded that relocating the trailer would
be logistically difficult due to traffic and setup constraints but acknowledged that placement
options could be evaluated. Council Member Harris emphasized that even approximate vehicle
counts could support efforts to obtain funding related to the road’s use as an alternate route to
Interstate 80.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes proposed contacting traffic engineering services that offer
temporary traffic counts, which might provide a more permanent solution. Detective Larsen
noted that if only vehicle counts were required—rather than speed enforcement—alternative
equipment might be identified. She also explained that the current trailer’s battery life is limited
in winter conditions, reducing its operational time to a couple of days, particularly when
positioned in shaded areas, and that snowplows often have difficulty around the unit. She said
the trailer could be deployed for special events but was typically kept plugged in during winter
to maintain functionality.

   5.2 Unified Fire Authority

Chief Bryan Case reported that Station 119 had experienced limited calls for service over the
past month. The first was an erroneous dispatch directing the station to respond to a motor
vehicle accident in South Salt Lake, which was canceled before crews arrived. The second
involved a 911 report of a fire that was determined to be caused by a malfunctioning oven
heating element. Crews inspected the residence, confirmed there was no active fire, assisted
the homeowner in addressing the issue, and provided recommendations for follow-up. The
third incident occurred on November 2 and involved a fully engulfed vehicle fire at
approximately 7100 East Emigration Canyon Road. There were no injuries, and the fire was
extinguished by Station 119 personnel. It was noted that the vehicle had recently undergone
mechanical work prior to catching fire.

Chief Case stated that the Unified Fire Authority continued to face staffing shortages and had
been intensifying recruitment efforts. Sixteen individuals, all transferring from other fire
departments, were expected to graduate from an abbreviated training program in mid-January.
An additional recruit school with thirty-six individuals was scheduled to begin the first week of
February, with graduation planned for May. He also described the Unified Fire Authority’s


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  4


annual award ceremony, which recognized both individual and team achievements. Unit
citations were awarded for responses to several high-profile incidents during the past year,
including a trench collapse in Draper, a semi-truck rollover in Little Cottonwood Canyon, a
complex medical incident near Kennecott, and an animal attack in Taylorsville. Other awards,
such as Officer of the Year and Medal of Valor, were also presented. He concluded by
providing a seasonal safety reminder for residents to use caution when cooking during the
holidays, particularly when preparing turkeys. He expressed appreciation to Mayor Joe Smolka
and the council for their ongoing support of the Unified Fire Authority and indicated he was
available to answer any questions.

   5.3 Salt Lake County Animal Services

Gary Bowen reported on the recent quarterly meeting, noting that much of the agenda
consisted of routine bureaucratic matters. He stated that one of the more notable discussions
involved a Salt Lake City resident in his seventies or eighties who inquired about keeping
chickens on his property, including licensing requirements and associated fees. This topic
occupied roughly ten minutes of the one-hour meeting. Mr. Bowen said that, as a result of this
discussion, Tanya Butler, Executive Director of Animal Services, informed the group that
Animal Services was in the process of drafting a new animal control ordinance. He
emphasized Ms. Butler’s clarification that the ordinance would not be a county-wide regulation
but instead a model ordinance. This model would be provided to individual municipalities,
which could then review and adopt it with any modifications they deemed appropriate. He
indicated that the ordinance was expected to be available toward the end of the year.

   5.4 Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVESA) Potential Tax Increase

Rachel Anderson, District Administrator and Legal Counsel for the Salt Lake Valley Law
Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA), presented remotely due to scheduling conflicts and
prior video issues. She was accompanied by Rick Moon, who also addressed the council. Ms.
Anderson explained that SLVLESA was proposing a property tax increase and was in the
process of completing the truth in taxation requirements, including mailing parcel-specific
notices to every property owner in the service area. She clarified that, unlike the Unified Fire
Service Area where cities were only briefed on tax changes, the law required each member
city to vote on the SLVLESA tax increase in addition to the SLVLESA Board of Trustees’ vote.

Ms. Anderson provided background on the request, noting that SLVLESA sought to reach the
statutory maximum tax rate of 0.0023 to ensure financial stability. Last year’s increase was
intended to meet that cap, but the requested dollar amount was underestimated and higher-
than-expected property values resulted in a lower rate of 0.002038. She explained that recent
legislative changes separated law enforcement services between the Salt Lake County
Sheriff’s Office and the Unified Police Department (UPD), with SLVLESA now responsible for
paying service bills to both. The current funding model requires SLVLESA to pay for law
enforcement services across its jurisdictions, but if it could not meet costs, cities would need to
cover the difference for additional service levels. The proposed increase would amount to
about $65 per year for a home of average value within the district ($453,000), with potentially
higher amounts in this jurisdiction due to higher property values.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                  5


Rick Moon stated that without the increase, SLVLESA would face a negative fund balance of
more than $800,000 in 2025 and, considering the statutory requirement for a 5% minimum
fund balance, the deficit would reach approximately $2.1 million. The proposed increase would
generate $3,276,000, leaving a projected positive balance of about $1.1 million above the
minimum reserve in 2025. Moon also reported that law enforcement costs in the Salt Lake
Valley had risen about 45% over the past five years, a rate matched by SLVLESA’s budget
growth, due in part to wage competition following recent unrest.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes asked for clarification on the average home value used in
the calculation and the tax cap. Moon confirmed the $453,000 average value and Anderson
reiterated the statutory cap of 0.0023. Council Member David Brems, who chairs UPD’s
benefits and compensation committee, noted that UPD’s entry-level officer pay ranked 15th out
of 26 law enforcement agencies in Utah and expressed support for the increase to improve
recruitment competitiveness.

Anderson explained that the vote by this council was one of several required steps; if all
municipalities approved, a simple majority vote by the Salt Lake County Council would follow,
but if any municipality voted no, a two-thirds majority from the county council would be
required. She noted that Kearns, White City, and Brighton had already approved the proposal,
while votes from Magna and Copperton were pending. The final decision would occur after a
December 19 public hearing.

During review of the resolution for consideration, Council Member Hawkes pointed out that the
term “metro township” appeared in related documents. Mayor Joe Smolka confirmed that those
in attendance understood the new city status, and Ms. Anderson explained that the resolution
was prepared as a template for all cities to complete, and that any approval could be
conditioned on correcting the reference. Staff confirmed the resolution text was correct, with
the outdated term appearing only in a supporting memo.

6. Council Business

    6.1  Consider adoption of Resolution No. 2024-11-01 Approving a 2025 Tax Rate in
    Excess of the Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area

 Council Member Harris moved to approve Resolution No. 2024-11-01, Approving a 2025 Tax
 Rate in Excess of the Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
 Area. Council Member Brems seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


    6.2    Records Management Best Practices/GRAMA Presentation

 Maren Peterson, Records and Information Management Specialist with the Utah State Archives,
 presented remotely to provide guidance on proper management of government records. She
 explained that correct records management ensures that information is easy to locate, non-
 permanent records are destroyed on schedule, and GRAMA requests can be processed efficiently.
 She outlined the legal definition of a government record under Utah law, emphasizing that it can be


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 6


in any format—paper, electronic, audio, video—and must be reproducible if requested. Ms. Peterson
recommended that the first step in records management is to determine whether an item qualifies as
a government record, then create an inventory of records, ideally in a shared, centralized storage
system such as Google Drive or Dropbox. This inventory should list what records exist, when and by
whom they were created, who owns them, and how many versions exist. Once an inventory is
established, each record should be matched to a general retention schedule, which specifies how
long the record must be kept and whether it is to be destroyed or transferred to the archives. She
clarified that permanent and historical records, such as meeting minutes, are preserved by the state,
while many other documents, such as financial data or raw materials for reports, are kept for a
limited period before destruction.

When asked for examples of non-permanent items, Ms. Peterson noted that personnel records are
retained for 65 years due to retirement requirements but are eventually destroyed, while some
contracts expire six years after termination. She advised municipalities to establish an annual routine
for destroying records that have met retention periods, coordinating with IT for electronic deletions to
ensure the records cannot be reproduced. She also addressed the risks of conducting city business
on personal devices, explaining that such communications become subject to GRAMA requests.
Best practice, she said, is to keep municipal communications and data on separate accounts and
devices.

Nicole Smedley and Cameron Platt provided additional clarifications, distinguishing between
transitory records—such as confirming meeting dates—which can be deleted immediately, and
records involving policy decisions or negotiations, which must be retained. Council members
discussed examples, including text messages sent for administrative purposes and whether they
should be deleted. Ms. Peterson reiterated that retention depends on the value of the record, and
that most transitory communications can be removed once their purpose is fulfilled.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes raised an email archiving concern, explaining that some
communications from the city’s former .org accounts had not fully transferred to the new .gov
accounts.

Ms. Peterson stated that local government emails have a three-year retention period, after which
they can be deleted, and encouraged the city to preserve messages within that timeframe. She
stressed that the council’s willingness to address records management placed them ahead of many
other municipalities. In closing, she recommended creating a standardized file naming convention—
often using the date, subject, and document creator—and maintaining organized folders and
subfolders to simplify retrieval. She advised the council to choose a system that works for them, but
to apply it consistently.


   6.3  Consider Adopting Ordinance No. 2024-11-01 approving and adopting the 2025
   Emigration Canyon Council Regular Meeting Schedule

The council reviewed the revised proposed 2025 meeting schedule (Attachment A). Mayor Smolka
mentioned that November and December meeting dates had been moved up, but Council Member
Catherine Harris said she had not seen the revised version and noted that no one expected to meet


    Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                    7


on December 23. Nicole Smedley explained that she had not sent the revision because the change
would have been within 24 hours of the meeting, but said she could update it after the council
determined the preferred dates.

The council discussed avoiding conflicts with other meetings, particularly on the third Tuesday of the
month. Council Member David Brems suggested moving the November meeting to November 18,
but Harris recommended moving it to Monday, November 17, to avoid recurring conflicts. December
was discussed as potentially being unnecessary, but Mayor Smolka noted that a December meeting
was sometimes needed, such as for budget adjustments. The group agreed on Monday, December
15, 2025, for that month’s meeting.

Council Member Robert Pinon raised the issue of the July meeting, noting that July 22 fell during a
time when many people take time off. The council agreed to move it to Monday, July 14, 2025.

The council decided to adopt the 2025 regular meeting schedule as published, with three changes:
moving the July 22 meeting to July 14, the November 25 meeting to November 17, and the
December 23 meeting to December 15, with all three rescheduled dates falling on a Monday instead
of a Tuesday.

Council Member Harris moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2024-11-01, Approving and Adopting
the 2025 Emigration Canyon Council Regular Meeting Schedule with the following changes:

   -     moving the July 22, 2025 meeting to July 14, 2025
   -     moving the November 25, 2025 meeting to November 17, 2025
   -     moving the December 23, 2025 meeting to December 15, 2025

Council Member Pinon seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


   6.4   Consider Adopting Ordinance No. 2024-11-02 Amending Title 18 - Subdivision
   Provisions and Procedures

Cameron Platt explained that the changes to the subdivision ordinance were required by the state
legislature. The revisions established that subdivision applications must be complete upon initial
submission, including all necessary information and revisions. He stated that this approach allowed
the municipality one opportunity to identify deficiencies in an application and avoided waiving the
right to address issues later. He contrasted this with allowing completion at final submission, which
carried the risk of missing unresolved issues. He noted that the edits also adjusted dates and
timelines to provide Emigration Canyon the maximum time possible for review and response. He
added that the last meeting had shown no major concerns, though not all members had fully
reviewed the lengthy document.

Council Member Catherine Harris said she had reviewed the document in full and found parts of it
clarified matters while other sections raised questions. She asked about a perceived difference




       Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 8


between the planning commission’s recommendation for a front-loaded application process and
staff’s preference for a back-end process.

Mr. Platt responded that early discussions had led to a perception that keeping requirements at the
final approval stage would provide a last opportunity for corrections, but in practice it increased the
risk of missing issues. He said the recommendation had ultimately been to adopt the front-loaded
approach, which was how the ordinance had been drafted.

Council Member Harris confirmed her understanding that the proposal incorporated a previously
circulated list of questions for consideration. Mr. Platt said those questions had been developed by a
drafter funded by the legislature, sent to both the council and the planning commission, and then
incorporated into the draft with input from Polly. Council Member Harris stated that matched her
understanding and said she appreciated the plain-language explanation.

Council Member Brems moved to approve Ordinance 20254-11-02, Amending Title 18 –
Subdivision Provisions and Procedures. Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote
was 5-0, unanimous in favor.


   6.5    Justice Courts

Cameron Platt reported that there had been no new developments regarding the justice court
arrangement. He said he had contacted the county, which had not disclosed much information, and
had reached out to Holladay and Millcreek without receiving responses. He stated he would need to
follow up more persistently.

Council Member David Brems remarked that he suspected an agreement might be reached with
Holladay. Mr. Platt explained that the decision would depend on which entity was willing and able to
contract to handle Emigration Canyon’s justice court work. He said that in early 2023, when the
matter was first discussed, county figures showed approximately 600 justice court cases per year,
which he characterized as a relatively low workload. He noted that some municipalities operate their
justice court only once per month with a judge hired for a single day, and that Emigration Canyon
could adopt a similar arrangement if needed. He outlined possible outcomes, including the county
retaining the justice court if the administrative officer of the courts did not permit its closure, the
Municipal Services District (MSD) creating a justice court for all municipalities, contracting with
another jurisdiction, or establishing Emigration Canyon’s own court.

Council Member Catherine Harris recalled Mr. Platt’s earlier presentation on the subject and
mentioned past figures of fewer than 40 cases in a year, including only three in January of that year.
He suggested those numbers may have been for a single metro area rather than the total.

Mayor Joe Smolka added that recent MSD figures indicated only four to six cases annually for
Emigration Canyon.

Chief Petty-Brown explained that Millcreek contracts with Holladay Justice Court, having ended its
own justice court arrangement in July of the previous year. She stated that Holladay Justice Court


    Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 9


also serves Holladay and Cottonwood Heights and that Millcreek had been satisfied with its
performance.

Council Member Brems asked whether there were delays or problems with cases being heard.

Mayor Smolka responded that no issues were occurring at present, but noted that any changes
would need legislative approval the following spring. Mr. Platt confirmed that the process required
six months’ notice followed by an additional six to nine months before a justice court could be
closed, and reiterated that the county currently did not wish to continue operating it.


   6.6   Legal Issues - None

   6.7   Ongoing Projects

Mayor Joe Smolka reported that two slope stabilization projects had been completed and the
guardrail replacement project was finished earlier that day, noting that some replacements were
silver due to unavailable rust-colored materials. He said that large boulders had been installed in the
drain at Little Mountain and that jersey barriers would be moved to cover the deep opening. Crack
sealing work was ongoing, and crews would address areas in the canyon before working in town.

Council Member David Brems raised the upcoming August acquisition of a property purchased by
the city and suggested beginning a feasibility or visioning process to determine potential uses. He
recommended hiring a consultant, estimating a cost of around $50,000, and stressed that the
process should include community outreach.

Mayor Smolka agreed with the concept, noting that White City was also pursuing a similar municipal
building project and that a Municipal Services District (MSD) long-range planner was researching
grant funding opportunities. He said a budget adjustment would be needed to hire a consultant.

Council Member Brems asked if the work should be routed through the MSD, to which Mayor
Smolka replied that was the best approach. Council Member Brems expressed criticism of a recent
White City request for proposals, calling it poorly written with an inadequate timeline. Mayor Smolka
said he did not believe it was significantly off base, but Council Member Brems maintained that it
was one of the worst he had seen. Cameron Platt suggested that a Request for Qualifications could
be used instead of a proposal to select a capable consultant without restricting them to a narrow
scope. Council Member Brems reiterated his desire for a community-focused visioning process. Platt
agreed and shared examples of successful public engagement in similar projects, noting that the city
would need to issue either an RFP or RFQ and adopt a budget amendment. Council Member
Jennifer Hawkes mentioned a recent “Envision Utah” presentation on building towns, saying she
would try to obtain materials from it.

Council Member Catherine Harris asked about road striping and was told it had been completed
promptly. Council Member Brems then voiced concerns about liability from leaving the property’s
existing buildings standing after the city took possession, suggesting demolition. Council Member
Robert Pinon noted the possibility of extending the lease with the current owner and said rebuilding


    Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 10


 would require sufficient funds. Council Member Harris saw little value in the existing structures and
 questioned the need to keep them. Mayor Smolka proposed adding the property discussion to the
 next month’s agenda and investigating MSD options, including leasing, demolition, or other uses that
 could reduce liability.


    6.8   Budget Items

              (a)     Review of Expenditures

 During the budget discussion, Council Member Harris asked about scheduling conflicts with the
 Oaks Board meetings. Mayor Smolka and Council Member Harris confirmed that rescheduling to
 Mondays would avoid conflicts. Mayor Smolka said the city’s final restroom project for the year was
 nearly complete and that standard budget items had been addressed. Council Member Hawkes
 noted a recent water bill payment, and referenced a property tax bill. Mayor Smolka reported that
 about $8,000 to $12,000 remained to be paid for the FEMA flood planning map and that the
 remaining American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds had been used on slope stabilization projects to
 avoid future reporting requirements. He said approximately $33,000 in ARPA funds had been spent
 and about $60,000 in unrestricted CARES Act funds remained, which could be used for items such
 as replacing aging computers or iPads.

7. Council Member Reports

   7.1 Council Member Brems

      (a) Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service
   Area (SLVLESA)

      (b) Emigration Canyon Planning Commission

      (c) Community Renewable Energy Program

Council Member David Brems reported that he had been out of the country during the previous
month and had not attended the Unified Police Department (UPD) Board meeting at that time.
He stated that during the most recent board meeting, it was announced that Mayor Stevenson
of Midvale had resigned from both the mayor’s position and his role as UPD Board chair. He
said that following the resignation, Chief Mazuran had contacted him to request that he
assume the role of board chair, which he began on Thursday. He added that it was uncertain
whether he would continue as chair next year, though there had been discussions suggesting
he might be asked to do so.

Council Member Brems said the board discussed the ongoing benefits study, which is
examining approximately 30 different benefits offered by law enforcement agencies, such as
tuition assistance and take-home vehicle policies. He emphasized the importance of
maintaining UPD’s position among the top one to three agencies in the state to attract and
retain the best officers, noting that the department had fallen from that standing and would


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 11


require additional funding to regain it. He stated that the board intended to maximize the level
of fiscal support permitted by the legislature to achieve this goal. Brems reported that officer
recruitment efforts were improving, with the staffing gap narrowing rather than widening.

Council Member Brems also attended a Community Renewable Energy Program meeting the
previous week, where discussions involved the Public Service Commission and Rocky
Mountain Power’s request for proposals for renewable energy. He said the timing of the RFP
release remained uncertain. He concluded by noting that the planning commission currently
had a significant workload and that he would provide a fuller report on their activities in the
following month’s meeting.

   7.2 Council Member Harris

      (a) Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

      (b) Watershed Plan

Council Member Catherine Harris reported on Unified Fire Authority (UFA) matters, beginning
with a reminder about the public meeting scheduled for December 17 regarding a proposed tax
increase. She said that once she received official notification, she would request that it be
posted on the public meeting website.

Council Member Harris relayed that Chief Case had provided an update on efforts to fill open
positions and conduct recruitment camps. Of local interest, she said there would likely be
funding in next year’s budget for landscaping improvements at Station 119. She explained that
the project was intended not only to improve the station’s appearance but also to engage the
community and promote both waterwise and firewise landscaping practices. She said she had
met with Assistant Chief Zach Robertson and other UFA members to review the original
landscaping plans, which incorporated some waterwise elements but had not been maintained
for over 14 years. She noted that the current condition included overgrowth, noxious weeds,
and trees positioned against the building—something fire personnel had flagged as a safety
concern.

Council Member Harris said the UFA team was eager to partner with community members on
the project. She reported that two volunteers with extensive waterwise gardening and
landscaping design experience had already stepped forward, with one volunteer possessing
information on potential grant funding. As the project date approached, she said she would
begin seeking additional input and assistance from residents.

On watershed matters, Council Member Harris said she had spoken with Sandy, who
requested to postpone her update until the next meeting due to her preparation for a major
presentation at the Salt Lake County Watershed Symposium scheduled for the following day.
Council Member Harris stated she planned to attend both days of the symposium, including
Sandy’s presentation, and offered to share the event link with anyone interested. She added
that she had attended the symposium for several years and found it to contain a wealth of
valuable information.


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 12


   7.3 Council Member Pinon

      (a) Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

      (b) Utah Broadband

      (c) Update on Possible High-Density Development

Council Member Robert Pinon reported on the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
(WFWRD) public board meeting held the previous night, where the 2025 budget was
presented. He said the board approved a $6.50 per household fee increase. The meeting also
included a presentation on the updated paid time off (PTO) benefits package, which would limit
the amount of sick leave allotted to employees so that the leave could be integrated into their
PTO schedules. Additionally, the board approved funding for the purchase of several new
garbage trucks for the coming year. Pinon stated that the WFWRD program continued to
operate efficiently and that the meeting was well attended.

Council Member Pinon said there was no update on Utah Broadband, though he had received
the mayor’s email regarding funding allocation. When Council Member David Brems asked
whether Utah Broadband provided internet service at the guard station, Pinon confirmed that it
did. Council Member Brems questioned ongoing connectivity and bandwidth issues, to which
Council Member Pinon responded that Nicole Smedley had been using a hotspot to cast
meetings rather than the facility’s Wi-Fi. Council Member Brems suggested establishing an
internet account for the fire station, but Council Member Pinon said he believed one was
already in place. Ms. Smedley explained she had been advised to use the hotspot and had
never tried the Wi-Fi but could test it at the next meeting. Mayor Joe Smolka noted that the
internet service had been upgraded as part of the television purchase for the facility and
Council Member Harris added that she believed the service was good.

Council Member Pinon concluded with an update on the high-density project at the bottom of
the canyon, reporting that the hearing scheduled for that afternoon as a work session had
been canceled, and there was currently no progress or further information to share.

   7.4 Deputy Mayor Hawkes

      (a) Website (www.ecmetro.org)

      (b) CodeRED

      (c) Association of Municipal Governments

      (d) Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes reported that the VECC number, which allows residents to
register for receiving information, would be updated on the city website. She said she was
unsure whether anyone had attended the meeting on the 4th but noted that Brad had sent an


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 13


email containing a master plan developed from the recent workshop. She stated she had
forwarded the plan to all council members prior to the meeting and encouraged them to review
it and share any feedback with her and Brad.

Council Member Hawkes also reported that the League had announced grant opportunities for
an upcoming workshop she had attended in the past. She described the workshop as very
helpful and suggested that the city submit an application for restroom funding through the
Recreation category.

Mayor Joe Smolka suggested adding the property discussion to the next month’s agenda so
the council could determine how they wanted to proceed with the entire site. Council Member
Hawkes noted that a grant workshop was scheduled for December, with applications opening
at the start of the year. She said that if the council planned to pursue funding, they should be
ready to move quickly, as the process could be complex based on her previous experience.
Hawkes stated that this project would align well with the city’s parameters and avoid
complications associated with the earlier proposal.

Council Member Hawkes also reported that a CodeRED alert would be sent in the next few
days regarding a Rocky Mountain Power outage scheduled for Thursday at 9:00 a.m., affecting
the Oaks and a few surrounding homes. Council Member Harris commented that Rocky
Mountain Power had been good about notifying customers who requested updates. Council
Member Hawkes clarified that the outage area would be limited, and Mayor Smolka added that
the fire station, the main canyon, and the Oaks would be impacted due to the replacement of a
rotting utility pole. Council Member Pinon noted that the power had been flickering during the
past week, and Council Member Harris confirmed experiencing the same issue, with other
council members reporting similar occurrences. Mayor Smolka said Rocky Mountain Power
had called him directly to help disseminate the information and explained the two separate
power systems serving the canyon and their coverage areas. Council Member Harris remarked
that some parts of the Oaks might not be affected due to system redundancies.

Council Member Hawkes mentioned a recent webinar on municipal powers and duties, saying
it could be beneficial for the council and that she still had questions regarding the differences
between metro and city authority. Cameron Platt responded that the Utah League of Cities and
Towns (ULCT) publishes a “Powers and Duties” handbook, available in both print and Kindle
formats, and that it defined a five-member council as including the mayor. Council Member
Hawkes requested a copy, and Nicole Smedley agreed to forward the information to the
council.

   7.5 Mayor Smolka

      (a) Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

      (b) Landfill Council

      (c) Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Committee




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 14


       (d) Council of Governments (COG)

       (e) Legislative Update

Mayor Joe Smolka stated that he had completed all required trainings and asked if any council
members still needed to complete their open meetings training for the year. He reminded those
serving on district boards that they also needed to complete district-specific training. He said
he attended the Utah Association of Special Districts (UASD) Conference in Layton, which he
described as efficient because it offered all trainings in one afternoon. He noted that all council
members were believed to have completed their training through their boards except for
Council Member Jennifer Hawkes.

Mayor Smolka said the UASD holds a three-day conference, but he attended for only one day
to complete his requirements. He also attended the November 4 Wasatch Front Regional
Council meeting, where a map of the valley was presented and leaders drew boundaries
indicating areas they did and did not want to see connected or developed. Discussion at the
meeting included the recent power outage. He reported that the new Municipal Services
District (MSD) offices were progressing well, currently in the drywall phase with ceiling grid
installation beginning soon. The new location will be at 860 Levoy Drive in Taylorsville, near
4500 South and 800 West, and will feature ample natural light.

Mayor Smolka invited all council members to attend an informal lunch hosted by the Municipal
Service District (MSD) the following day at 11 a.m., noting it would be an opportunity to meet
employees in a relaxed setting. Council Member Hawkes asked that such events be placed on
the calendar in advance to allow members to plan to attend. Mayor Smolka said there might be
another lunch in December and that members would be informed if one was scheduled.

Mayor Smolka added that the landfill council meeting, canceled in November, would be held in
early December. He said the next Wasatch Front Regional Council meeting would take place
Thursday, with planned changes to the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) and the
2025–2030 plan, which included only one modification affecting Salt Lake Valley. He reported
not attending the most recent Council of Governments meeting and had no updates to report in
the legislative area.

    8. Citizen Public Input

Janet Haskell asked what occurred at the recent Municipal Services District (MSD) meeting
regarding the road expansion project.

Mayor Joe Smolka responded that an update had been provided at the beginning of that
meeting, with the MSD accepting the aid agreement from the federal government, which also
included state participation. This acceptance would allow the city to access the necessary
funding.

Ms. Haskell asked whether there was any notable discussion, and Mayor Smolka said that
Gary Bowen spoke during citizen comments, but no detailed answers could be provided yet


     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 15


because plans had not been developed. Ms. Haskell clarified whether the engineering plans
mentioned were the ones he referred to, and Mayor Smolka confirmed, explaining that funding
must first be secured to complete the feasibility study, engineering designs, open houses, and
other preliminary work. She then asked if the MSD or County engineer who had previously
attended a council meeting would return to provide updates, and Mayor Smolka said this would
likely occur next year.

Council Member Jennifer Hawkes read an email she received from resident Brian Bosworth,
who stated he had recently received a speeding ticket and believed it was due to inconsistent
speed limit signage at the bottom of Emigration Canyon. He claimed that signs had been
installed relatively recently, that police enforcement in the area had increased, and that
westbound signage from Emigration Oaks to the canyon’s base was lacking. He also noted
inconsistencies in speed limits depending on travel direction and that GPS applications
showed incorrect speed data. Mr. Bosworth sought information to assist in contesting his ticket
and advocating for improved signage. Council Member Hawkes told Mr. Bosworth he would
need to address the issue with Salt Lake City but also contacted Tolin to drive the stretch for
review. She observed that from the fire station to the canyon’s mouth there were no speed limit
signs, though this met current distance requirements. Given Salt Lake City’s speed reductions,
she suggested installing a “Reduced Speed Ahead” sign to alert non-local drivers.

Council Member Pinon added that a sign indicating the canyon’s speed limit at the bottom
could help, since eastbound traffic did not return to 40 mph until reaching Ruth’s. The council
discussed whether there were existing signs in the stretch, but no consensus was reached.
Council Member Harris noted that Google and Apple Maps updated speed limits at the
township (now city) line. Council Member Hawkes said her vehicle’s sign-recognition system
detected signs eastbound but not from the fire station to the bottom. Council Member Harris
supported investigating improvements and agreed a “Reduced Speed Ahead” sign would be
helpful.

Council Member Hawkes emphasized addressing what was within the city’s control. Mayor
Smolka asked where a new sign should be placed, and Council Member Hawkes said
placement was flexible but necessary. Council Member Harris remarked she had always been
surprised there wasn’t a sign at the township/city line, as is typical when speed limits change.
Council Member Hawkes suggested installing two signs. A discussion followed among the
council and attendees, with suggested placements just below Skycrest heading downhill and at
Ruth’s. They also noted an existing sign near the city line for uphill traffic and one by the
concrete barrier. Council Member Hawkes concluded by reporting that the city’s .gov website
was updated and the redirect from the .org domain was active. Mayor Smolka added that there
had been difficulty accessing agendas until they were moved to the .gov domain, and he
reminded members to use their .gov email addresses going forward.

    9. Other Announcements - None


    10. Future Emigration Canyon Council Agenda Items – None




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                                 16


   11. Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

      (a) Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental
      Health of an Individual.

      (b) Pending or Reasonably Imminent Litigation.

      (c) Purchase, Exchange, or Lease of Real Property.

      (d) Deployment of Security Personnel


   12. ADJOURN

Council Member Harris moved to adjourn the November 19, 2024 City Council Meeting.
Council Member Hawkes seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

The November 19, 2024 Emigration Canyon City Council meeting adjourned at 9:02 PM.

The November 19, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes were Approved by the City
Council on the 26th day of August 2025:


ATTEST:




                                                          Joe Smolka, Mayor


Diana Baun, City Recorder




     Emigration Canyon • 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road • Salt Lake City, UT 84108 • 385-240-1400
                                            Emigration Canyon Monthly Report July 2025
                                            Calls for service: 49



Crime/Police Stats:

In the month of June, Unified Police Department responded to 49 calls for service.

A rollover accident occurred in Pinecrest where the driver had to be extracted. The driver was not wearing their
seatbelt and was transported to the hospital.

UPD officers assisted the Sheriff’s Office with an injured hiker on the back side of Emigration Canyon Road in
the Sheriff Office jurisdiction.

There were three vehicle burglaries in the canyon during the month of July, all vehicles were unlocked,
however, one of the vehicles was parked in a garage and the garage was broken into. Two of the homes had
cameras, but nothing suspicious was observed on the cameras.

The Law Enforcement Memorial Ride went well with a lot of residents coming out to watch the ride.

 CALLS FOR SERVICE OFFENSE                                          COUNTS
 Cell Hang Up                                                       9
 Traffic Stop/Radar                                                 4
 Traffic Hazard                                                     2
 Reckless                                                           3
 Agency Assist/ Public Order                                        1
 Citizen/Motor Assist                                               10
 Illegal Fireworks                                                  1
 Suspicious                                                         1
 Domestic                                                           1
 Welfare Check                                                      3
 Attempt to Locate                                                  1
 Ambulance Back                                                     4
 Burglary                                                           2
 Car Prowl                                                          3
 Violation of Protective Order                                      1
 Traffic Accident                                                   3
Heat Map of Calls for Service in Emigration Canyon
                     ANIMAL SERVICES ADVISORY COMMITTEE
                              Thursday, July 31st, 2025 - 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.
                                      Electronic Recording Link:
               https://slco.webex.com/slco/ldr.php?RCID=bb388cb28345fc97cacaf634250c8ee0

                                          MEETING MINUTES

    Members in attendance:
    Dustin Gettel – Midvale                                     Alan Peterson – Kearns
    Grant Crowell – Bluffdale                                   Audrey Pierce – Magna
    Kevin Severson – Copperton                                  Toby Hazelbaker – Salt Lake City
    Holly Smith – Holladay                                      Julie Ulvestad – Industry Expert
    Gary Bowen – Emigration Canyon                              Rita Lund – Millcreek
    Scott Baird – SLCO Mayor

    Members absent:
    Brian Wright – Murray                                       Dea Theodore – SLCO Council
    Linda Price – White City                                    Jeff Bossard – Brighton

    Non-Members Present:
    Carrie Sibert – SLCO Animal Services                        Karl Carpenter – SLCO Animal Services
    Talia Butler – SLCO Animal Services                         Alyssa Watts – SLCO Animal Services
    Jami Johanson – SLCO Animal Services                        Don Belnap – SLCO Animal Services



 1. CALL TO ORDER, ROLL CALL – Dustin Gettel, Chair
    1.1. Welcome new member Toby Hazelbacker with Salt Lake City.
 2. PUBLIC COMMENT (2-minute limit) – Please state name & jurisdiction.
    No public comment given
 3. CONSENT AGENDA
    3.1.   Approval of 4-24-25 Meeting Minutes
           Rita Lund motioned, Grant Crowell seconded. All say aye.

 4. DISCUSSION AND POSSIBLE ACTION ITEMS
    4.1.   Free Microchip program, Donald Belnap, Animal Control Officer
           Talia Butler and Don Belnap explained the county’s free microchip program that is available to
           all residents in Salt Lake County and how they can receive one for their pets. Talia Butler
           displayed examples of pets that have been reunited with their owners due to having a microchip.
           Don explained the benefits of microchips and how they assist animal control officers in reuniting
           lost pets to their owners.
    4.2.   Spayghetti Gala updates and auction items, Jami Johanson, Associate Division Director
           Jami shared event information for this year’s Spayghetti gala. Jami also requested that if any of
           the members jurisdictions would like to donate a basket/any donated items for the auction to help
           raise money for the spay and neuter program that they reach out to us to turn it in by the
           beginning of September. Jurisdictions will be advertised for any basket or items donated for the
           event.



Meeting Recorder :                            Office Manager, Carrie Sibert.                   AN-Advisory@slco.org
    4.3.   Fee Schedule, Talia Butler, Division Director
           Talia explained the proposed revisions to the current fee schedule that if adopted will go into
           effect in 2026. Talia went over each adjustment and what it entails and highlighted which fees
           are not changing. Talia explained a few new fees Animal Services would like to form such as a
           license membership fee that would include perks along with the annual license.
           Rita asked for clarification on the microchip fee. Talia explained we only charge a microchip fee
           for animals that are not in Salt Lake County.
           Scott asked if we’d like a vote of support in the proposed changes before it goes to County
           Council for discussion and possible adoption. Talia stated we’d like a vote of support.
           Members took a vote:
           Rita Lund Motioned, Audrey Pierce seconded. All say aye.
    4.4.   Animal Services Projects, Talia Butler, Division Director
           Talia went over various projects that Animal Services is working on featuring capital projects
           including: the upcoming outbuilding/overflow kennel space, lobby remodel that will include a
           new adoption program space separate from the enforcement program and a new security office for
           the Sheriff deputy, clinic remodel, roof repairs, and parking lot resurfacing.
           Talia also went over the capital projects that are scheduled to be completed in 2026 such as:
           shelter flooring, barn/shed repairs, auditorium updates, and repairs to the Murray shelter.
           Talia went over bill initiatives that we are participating in for the 2026 legislative session
           including: Revising court holds involving animals in our care, rabies administering revisions,
           rabies information addition to the USISS Database, and First Responder classification for Animal
           Control Officers.
    4.5.   Division Updates, Talia Butler, Division Director
           Talia highlighted the PAWS program. Carrie Sibert explained that we are ensuring we visit each
           area at least twice and as of Monday 7/28/25 the program performed 682 surgeries so far.
           Talia explained that the Animal Care Campus project is currently working on building a master
           plan and we are trying to locate potential location ideas.
           Talia went over recent Animal Services emergency response efforts to local fires that occurred in
           a couple jurisdictions. Rita Lund provided a summary of the devasting fire that occurred in
           Millcreek and how the pet owners were affected. Talia explained that we’d like to set up separate
           meetings with each jurisdiction to ensure contact information is accurate and updated. Animal
           Services would also establish which types of emergency cases the jurisdictions would like to be
           informed of. Talia also explained that our humane education program offers training classes on
           animal emergency preparedness that can assist owners in emergency situations.
           Holly Smith asked if neighboring jurisdictions can assist in helping reunite with lost pets from the
           recent fires. Talia explained that yes, we are sharing information on social media and local
           rescues are also helping.
           Talia explained the successes of our recently formed adoption program and the team that manages
           the program. Talia explained that the revenue goal from adoptions has greatly increased as the
           team have greatly improved efforts to find shelter pets new homes.
           Talia went over an upcoming Paws for Health event on October 3rd that is combining efforts from
           multiple agencies that is focusing on providing free vaccinations for pets and humans.
           Talia highlighted a new incentive that we are offering with our adoptions where we are providing
           a laser engraved tag that includes a image of the pet and an identifying life saved number.


 5. MEMBER REPORTS
    5.1.   Updates from member’s jurisdictions that may impact Animal Services.
           •    Alan Peterson – Kearns - None
           •    Grant Crowell – Bluffdale - None
           •    Rita Lund – Millcreek – Rita thanked efforts for the fire and highlighted that we will be out
                there for a licensing and microchipping event.
           •    Dustin Gettel – Midvale – Dustin updated members on his recent ride along with Sgt. Cantor
Meeting Recorder :                            Office Manager, Carrie Sibert.                     AN-Advisory@slco.org
               and what he experienced. Dustin also extended condolences to those in the Millcreek fire and
               shared the donation link. Dustin also highlighted their upcoming Harvest Days event.
           •   Toby Hazelbacker – Salt Lake City – Dustin introduced Toby and welcomed him to the
               committee. Toby provided his background and his position with Salt Lake City. Toby
               explained that they still encounter pet related issues in their parks.
           •   Holly Smith – City of Holladay – Holly explained that they are establishing another new park
               and may include a dog park within it. Holladay is also updating their entire code and may
               reach out for the animal section. Holly extended a thank you to Carrie Sibert for her efforts.
           •   Lt. Brian Wright – Murray – N/A
           •   Kevin Severson – Copperton – Kevin explained that they’ve received a lot of complaints about
               deer in their jurisdiction and asked if anyone has used the urban deer program and have some
               information on it. No other members have used it before. Grant stated Herriman City may
               have used it and suggested reaching out to them.
           •   Jeff Bossard – Brighton – N/A
           •   Linda Price – White City – N/A
           •   Audrey Pierce – Magna – Audrey thanked Carrie Sibert for contacting them for the fire in
               Magna and response efforts. Audrey stated they are a bit concerned on the number of animals
               involved and look forward to meeting about emergencies.
           •   Gary Bowen – Emigration Canyon – Gary reported that Rocky Mountain power is doing
               substantial road work that may impact entry and exiting in the canyon at certain locations.
               Rita also mentioned Millcreek Canyon is also undergoing some road work that may impact
               dog walkers and bicyclists.
           •   Scott Baird – Salt Lake County Mayor – No updated but echoed Dustin’s suggestion to
               members to go out on a ride along with an Animal Control Officers and highlighted the
               appreciation to our officer’s experiences and skill levels.
           •   Dea Theodore – Salt Lake County Council – N/A
           •   Juli Ulvestad – Industry Expert – Juli extended a thank you to Sgt Cantor’s efforts. Juli
               appreciated Animal Services efforts on the proposed fee schedule. Juli asked if there will be
               intake reductions and offered veterinary assistance by the Utah Humane Society to Animal
               Services while our veterinarian is out on vacation. Talia explained we do have some volunteer
               and part time veterinary help while Dr. Kelly is off, and intake efforts are being taken to
               reduce the number of animals entering the shelter but we will utilize their assistance.
 6. FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS

    None

 7. ADJOURN

    Rita Lund motioned, Scott Baird seconded. All say aye.




Meeting Recorder :                           Office Manager, Carrie Sibert.                    AN-Advisory@slco.org
          JOIN US FOR OUR ANNUAL




SPAYGHETTI
  & No Balls Gala
                           TH
          OCT       10          2025
                    6 PM

              THE SHERATON
  150 West 500 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84101
                 Cocktail Attire
 Games, Music, Dinner, Silent and Live Auctions,
       Puppies, Kittens and so much fun!

         Tickets On Sale: August 18th
  Silent Auction Opens Online: October 3rd
 Proposed Fee Schedule 2026 Budget
                                       2023     2026                                    Projected
Enforcement                           Current Proposed   %     $           Notes        Revenue
 Impound Fee
 1st Impound                   $50
 2nd Impound within 24 months $100               $150    50%    $50                       $1,250
 3rd Impound within 24 months $200               $250    25%    $50                         $150
 Subsequent Impound within 24 $400               $500    25%   $100                         $300    $1,700

 Notice of Violation
 First NOV (fee per violation)      $75          $100    33%    $25                       $3,750
 Second Violation (fee per viola $150            $200    33%    $50                       $7,500
 Third Violation (fee per violatio $300          $400    33%   $100                       $1,500
 Subsequent Notices of Violatio $400             $600    50%   $200                       $3,000 $15,750

 Pet Licenses
 License - Unsterilized                  $50
 License - Sterilized                    $25
 License - senior citizen, steriliz      $15
 Membership License Fee                   $0     $100          $100 Includes license,    $20,000
                                                                    annual shots,
                                                                    microchip w/plan,
                                                                    ID tag, Pet Crew
 License - Transfer fee or replac        $10                   ($10)
 Late license penalty (applicab          $50       $0       ($3,000)                     ($3,000)
 Pet Licenses Sold Affiliate Bus          $0 $50 $25 $1100% $3,000 *not valid on renewal $3,000 $20,000

 Permits - 1 year
 Commercial - up to 30 animals         $250      $300    20%    $50                       $2,500
 commercial - over to 30 anima         $400      $500    25%   $100                       $5,000
 Residential permit                     $75                    ($75)
 Late application renewal fee (i        $50                    ($50)                                $7,500
                                   2023     2026                                        Projected
Services                          Current Proposed   %     $               Notes        Revenue
 Rabies/Vaccines/Microchip
 Rabies Vaccination                 $30       $40    33%    $10                           $2,000
 Rabies Deposit                     $30       $40    33%    $10                             $200
 Rabies Test Fee                   $250      $300    20%    $50 (plus any third party     $1,000
                                                                charges)
 Microchip                           $40      $50    25%    $10 *out of county only         $500    $3,700

 Sterilization
 Sterilization Deposit (mandate    $200      $250    25%    $50                           $7,500
 In-house sterilization            $150      $250    67%   $100                          $15,000 $22,500

 Livestock
 Dead Livestock Removal            $400      $600    50%   $200 (plus any third party       $600
                                                                charges)
 Dead Livestock Disposal           $250      $300    20%    $50 (plus any third party       $150
                                                                charges)
 Brand Inspection Fee               $50      $100 100%      $50 (plus any third party       $150
                                                                charges)
 Livestock Transportation Fee (    $100      $500 400%     $400 (plus any third party     $1,200    $2,100
                                                                charges)

 Euthanasia and Disposal - Companion Animals
 Euthanasia and disposal of sm  $10       $20 100%          $10                             $250
 Euthanasia (dog or cat)        $75      $100 33%           $25                           $2,500
 Disposal (dog or cat)          $75      $100 33%           $25                           $2,500    $5,250

 Other
 Surrender Fee                     $150      $200 33%       $50                           $7,500
 Surrender Biter Fee               $300      $400 33%      $100                           $2,000
 Field Service Fee                 $100      $200 100%     $100                             $300    $9,800

                                                                  Total:                            $88,300
OFFICER
DON
BELNAP
MICROCHIPS
FREE FOR ALL
COUNTY PETS
PROVIDED WITH
SUPPORT FROM THE
SALT LAKE COUNTY
COUNCIL
WALK-INS WELCOME
TUESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY
10 AM TO 6 PM
AVAILABLE AT
MULTIPLE SHELTER
LOCATIONS ACROSS
THE COUNTY
2025 CAPITAL PROJECTS
 OUTBUILDING
2025 CAPITAL PROJECTS
LOBBY (ADOPTIONS, SECURITY, VOLUNTEER, RESTROOMS)




                                                                k    Y o u
                                                        Th  a n               a r u
                                                                      r  S u b
                             OTHER PROJECTS:                M  i l l e
                                                      Mar k
                             ROOF REPAIRS
                             CLINIC GROOMING TUB
                             FRONT/SIDE PARKING LOT
Shelter Flooring Project



                                                       2026
Remove all carpeted areas and damaged floors.

Asphalt: South Parking Lot
Repair and resurface asphalt in south parking lot.




                                                     CAPITAL
Barn/Shed Area Repair Project
Repair/asphalt/resurface barn and shed areas.

Auditorium Update
Repair windows, animal-friendly blinds, repair
partition walls, update chair/table storage area.

Employee Area Update
Update bathroom, update eye wash station,
update disease contamination area, separate
kitten feeding area from break room.
                                                     PROJECT
Murray Door/Window Repair
Repair rust damage in doors and window frames,
repair thresholds and moisture guard, repair
moisture damaged floors and drywall.
                                                        LIST
                                                        *Pending Budget Approval
LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES
Court Holds                                 Rabies Administering
Require courts to determine disposition     Change the language for rabies
of animals held in cruelty cases at the     vaccinations to not require direct
first scheduled hearing. Does not require   veterinary supervision to be consistent
owner attendance. Addresses cost of         with all other vaccine types. Liability
care.                                       transfer to organization.


Allow Rabies/Animal                         First Responder
Information to be included in               Classification
USISS Database                              Currently the law only includes animal
                                            control officers that are part of a police
Would allow animal                          or sheriff agency. Requesting change to
rabies/microchip/license information to     include all municipal animal control
be connected to owners in a current         employees that meet the first responder
state-managed database.                     requirements.
                               DIVISION
                               UPDATES
Mobile Unit / Animal Care Campus
Emergency Response Updates
   Adoption Team Success
    Paws for Health Event
               We’ve been working on something special!
Every adopter will soon receive a custom keychain celebrating the life they
 saved — complete with their pet’s life number as part of our no-kill policy.
                      A small token of a big impact.                              ❤️
                   https://www.facebook.com/share/v/15T4LPjvQC/?mibextid=wwXIfr
Should Granite School District Split?
As part of the ongoing Elementary Boundary and Closure Study, Granite School District has
received questions about how a district split would impact Granite School District. The
District does not take an official position on the idea of a split, nor does the district have the
authority to initiate a split. However, data from recent splits in the state of Utah present
concerns that warrant consideration.


Lessons Learned From Other District Splits
      • Similar to the Jordan/Canyons split, both smaller districts would need to drastically
           raise taxes in order to maintain the same level of services.
                  o News media reported that taxes were increased by 20 percent in Jordan
                     and 16.75 percent in Canyons following the 2008 split. (Deseret News,
                     2014)
      • If Granite were to split, both smaller districts would still face issues with declining
           enrollment and high home prices. Housing costs would increase as property taxes
           would need to be increased. Both districts will still be faced with closure decisions.
      • Overall administrative costs would increase across both new districts.
                  o News media reported that administrative costs per student increased
                     from $540 before the split to $795 in Canyons and $575 in Jordan. (Deseret
                     News, 2014)


Equalization
During the last split, ALL Salt Lake County taxpayers were required to subsidize the inequities
in funding. Our taxpayers funded the last split. Granite School District participated with other
districts in a Capital Equalization Program (Deseret News, 2008) from 2009 to 2016 at a total
estimated net cost to the District of $5 million. This was money that the State Legislature
obligated Granite to contribute to help (Deseret News, 2009) facilitate the Jordan/Canyons
split. The Legislature could once again require additional dollars from a splitting district to
pay for any inequities in the remaining district.
School and District Size: A Report to the
Legislative Education Interim Committee.
Click here to review, “School and District Size: A Report to the Legislative Education Interim
Committee.” Among other key findings, this report to the Utah Legislature finds that:

      • “One time cost of splitting a district could range from $3,500,000 to $45,000,000.”
          Those estimates are from the year 2000 – the costs would reasonably be far greater
          now.
               o As reported by the news media, the Canyons/Jordan split cost $59 million.
                   (Fox13, 2014)
      • “…as the number of students in a district goes up, the costs of educating each student
          comes down.”
      • “Unknown but predictable added costs would be very substantial.”



Reduced Offerings and Higher Costs
      • If Granite were to split, both smaller districts would not have the economies of scale in
           terms of students and funding to have access to Granite Technical Institute, some
           CTE programing, and other offerings of a larger district.
      • If Granite were to split, both smaller districts would lose the current self-funded
           insurance plan and would likely need to use a more expensive private provider.
           Employees would no longer have access to the best benefits package in the state.
                 o For example, a smaller district in Utah recently had an 18% spike in
                     premiums, while Granite’s self-funded insurance only went up 0.3%.


Stay Informed
We encourage all district patrons to stay informed about the processes and methodologies
that go into managing Granite School District. Here are some helpful links to
our budget and boundary studies web pages, where you can find data and studies related to
district funding, enrollment trends, etc.
                              2025




Fee Schedule
for Emigration Canyon
adopted May 27, 2025,
effective date July 1, 2025
Contents
Address Fees........................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Business License Fees ............................................................................................................................................................ 3
   General Business Licenses .................................................................................................................................................. 3
   Short-term Rental Licenses .................................................................................................................................................. 4
   Alcohol-Related Licenses ..................................................................................................................................................... 4
   Sexually-oriented Business Licenses ................................................................................................................................... 4
Building Permit Fees ................................................................................................................................................................ 5
   Construction Valuation Tables.............................................................................................................................................. 7
   Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables....................................................................................................................... 8
   Building and Inspection Fee Calculation .............................................................................................................................. 8
Plan Check Fees ..................................................................................................................................................................... 9
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP) ................................................................................................................... 9
   SWPPP Fees ....................................................................................................................................................................... 9
   SWPPP Control Measures ................................................................................................................................................... 9
   SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines ........................................................................................................................................... 10
Land Use Fees ...................................................................................................................................................................... 10
   Conditional Use Permits....................................................................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
   Permitted Uses................................................................................................................................................................... 10
   Subdivision Permits............................................................................................................................................................ 11
   Ordinance Adjustments ...................................................................................................................................................... 11
   Other Land Use Applications .............................................................................................................................................. 12
Code Enforcement Fees ........................................................................................................................................................ 12
Bond Administration Fees ...................................................................................................................................................... 13
Miscellaneous Service Fees .................................................................................................................................................. 13
Engineering Fees................................................................................................................................................................... 14
Glossary of Terms ................................................................................................................................................................. 16




Emigration Canyon contracts with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”) to provide planning and
zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services. The MSD provides these services on behalf of
and under the direction of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

NOTE: Fees and Fines will be applied as approved and set forth in this schedule. The Director of Engineering, Chief
Building Official or Director of Planning and Development may on occasion adjust fees/fines in unique circumstances up
to $1,500 per application. The MSD’s General Manager may do the same up to $5,000. These adjustments must be
documented and reported on if requested. Adjustments over $5,000 require approval of the governing body of the
jurisdiction to which the application pertains.
Address Fees

                   Fee Type                                                   Description                                               Amount
                                                                                                                                  $100.00 base fee
                                                                                                                                plus $40.00 per lot a;
                                                 Provide address information on recorded subdivision plat
                                                 and/or individual parcel/building addresses. Ensure                            for multi-family units,
    Assignment of Address                        assignments meet addressing standards and are suitable                          $40.00 for the first 8
                                                 for mail delivery, public safety, utility services and general                   units in addition to
                                                 delivery of services.                                                          base fee and $5 per
                                                                                                                                unit for each unit over
                                                                                                                                         8 units
                                                 Confirm that petition includes the required signatures.
                                                 Document street name change and address change for
                                                 each property along street by filing an affidavit with the                      $250.00 base fee
    Street Name Change
                                                 Salt Lake County Recorder's Office. Notify the property                         plus $50.00 per lot
                                                 owner, Public Safety dispatch and the Salt Lake County
                                                 Treasurer of the address/street name change.
a
      The per lot fee does not apply to Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU).



Business License Fees
General Business Licenses

                   Fee Type                                                   Description                                               Amount
    General Business License –                   For commercial business locations. Includes inspections
                                                                                                                                        $150.00
    Commercial Business                          and verification of zoning compliance.
    General Business License –                   For home-based businesses without on-site visitors and
                                                                                                                                         No Fee
    Home-Based Business (simple)                 customers.
                                                 For home-based businesses with on-site visitors and
    General Business License –
                                                 customers. Includes inspections and verification of zoning                             $150.00
    Home-Based Business
                                                 compliance.
    Per-employee Fee                             Includes verification of EIN documentation.                                             $6.00
                                                 For business operations of up to      days per year.
    Seasonal Business License                    Includes inspections and verification of zoning                                        $120.00
                                                 compliance.
    Solicitor ID                                 Includes photograph of applicant and issuance of ID card.                               $65.00
    Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
                                                                                                                                         $50.00
    License
                                                 Issued for operating a business without a license or with
    Administrative Citation                                                                                                             $300.00
                                                 an expired license.
    Business License Appeal                      To either Council or Hearing Examiner                                                  $1,000.00
Notes regarding business license fees:

1.    Withdrawn applications are subject to a charge of 25% of the fee amount.

2.    Licenses must be renewed prior to the expiration date.
           o   Licenses renewed within 30 days of expiring will not be charged a penalty.
           o   Licenses renewed 31-60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 25% of the general license fee.
           o   Licenses renewed more than 60 days of expiring will be charged a penalty of 100% of the general license fee
3.    For appeals, if the appeal is found in favor of the appellant then the fee shall be refunded less a $100.00 administrative fee.
Short-term Rental Licenses

                Fee Type                                                    Description                     Amount
 Umbrella Short-term Rental                    Primary license for short-term rental management
                                                                                                            $500.00
 License Fee – main license                    companies with multiple rental units/locations.
 Umbrella Short-term Rental                    Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                            $50.00
 License Fee – per unit                        compliance.
                                               Short-term rental license for homeowners renting their
 Short-term Rental License Fee –
                                               primary residence. Includes verification of zoning           $500.00
 homeowner
                                               compliance.


Alcohol-Related Licenses

                Fee Type                                                    Description                     Amount
 Off-Premise Beer Retailer                                                                                  $250.00
 Recreational On-Premise Beer
                                                                                                            $350.00
 Retailer
 Restaurant Liquor                                                                                          $500.00
 Limited Restaurant Liquor                                                                                  $500.00
 Beer-Only Restaurant                                                                                       $350.00
 On-Premise Beer Tavern                                                                                     $350.00
 Resort                                                                                                     $500.00
 Club Liquor                                                                                                $600.00
 Banquet & Catering                                                                                         $500.00
 Single Event                                                                                               $150.00
 Wholesale Beer                                                                                             $300.00
 Manufacturing                                                                                              $350.00
Alcohol-related business license applications are referred to local communities for consent and approval.




Sexually-oriented Business Licenses

                Fee Type                                                    Description                     Amount
 Sexually Oriented Business -                  Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                            $500.00
 Outcall Services                              compliance.
 Sexually Oriented Business -                  Includes inspections and verification of zoning
                                                                                                            $300.00
 excluding Outcall Services                    compliance.
Building Permit Fees

Building permits include necessary inspections. If additional inspections are required, applicants will be charged the
reinspection fee for each additional visit. Most building permits will require a plan check fee in addition to the building
permit fee. Plan check fees are listed separately.
Building permits and mechanical, plumbing & electrical permits will be charged a state surcharge equal to 1% of the
permit fee.

             Fee Type                                          Description                                    Amount
 Building Permit – Minimum Fee         For permit only, does not include plan review fees if                  $70.00
                                       applicable.
 Building Permit - new
                                      See below for valuation schedules                                       Varies a
 construction
 Building Permit - addition or
                                      See below for valuation schedules                                       Varies a
 remodel
 Mobile Home Setup Permit                                                                                     $200.00
                                      Includes on-site inspection of one system. Additional
 Mechanical, Plumbing &
                                      appliances and fixtures after the first will be charged the             $70.00
 Electrical Permit
                                      per-unit fee listed below.
 Fee per additional appliance or      Applies to each additional appliance, fixture, etc.
                                                                                                              $20.00
 fixture                              inspected by inspector already on site.
 Grading Permit                                                                                               Varies b
 Retaining Wall Permit                                                                                        Varies c
 Demolition Permit                                                                                            Varies d
 Window & Door Replacement –
                                      Applies when no other work is being done.                               $70.00
 residential
 Window & Door Replacement –
                                      Applies when no other work is being done.                               Varies d
 commercial
 Reroofing Permit Fees
 Reroofing – residential roof with
                                      Includes inspection of sheathing or decking.                            $125.00
 sheathing
 Reroofing – residential roof
                                      Shingles only; no decking or sheathing.                                 $75.00
 without sheathing
 Reroofing – small commercial         Commercial roof project under $10,000 valuation.                        $150.00
                                      Commercial roof project between $10,000 and $49,999
 Reroofing – medium commercial                                                                                $175.00
                                      valuation.
 Reroofing – large commercial         Commercial roof project $50,000 valuation or higher.                    $250.00
 Solar Power System Permit Fees
 Residential/Small Commercial         Applies to residential and commercial installations up to
                                                                                                              $100.00
 Solar Permit – base fee              20 kW. Does not include fees for required plan check.
 Residential/Small Commercial         Additional fee based on size of installation. Does not
                                                                                                          $30.00 per kW
 Solar Permit – fee per kW            include fees for required plan check.
 Commercial Solar over 20 kW          Applies to larger commercial installations over 20 kW.                  Varies e
                                      Assumes that inspector is already on site for inspection of
 Battery Storage System                                                                                  $2.00 per battery
                                      installation.
 Additional Inspection Fees
 Reinspection                                                                                                 $50.00
                                      Inspections after a fire or disaster to determine extent of
 Pre-inspection                                                                                               $70.00
                                      damage and permits needed for repairs.
 Multi-unit Inspection                                                                                        $100.00
    Overtime/After-hours Inspection                                                                                           $120.00 (Per hour)

    Administrative Fees
                                                 Applies when permit is cancelled before work                                  25% of permit fee
    Cancellation of building permit
                                                 commences.                                                                    ($200 maximum)
                                                 Applies when permit has been expired for more than 30
    Reinstatement Fee – general                                                                                                50% of permit fee
                                                 business days.
    Reinstatement Fee – final                    Applies when only final inspection is required, and permit                    50% of permit fee
    inspection                                   has been expired for more than 30 business days.                              ($200 maximum)
                                                 Base fee equal to 200% of building permit fee, plus daily
                                                                                                                              200% of permit fee,
                                                 fees commencing 10 business days after notice of
    Building or grading without a                                                                                            plus 1% of permit fee
                                                 violation. Example, if the permit fee would have been
    permit                                                                                                                   per day ($50 max per
                                                 $100, then building or grading without a permit would
                                                                                                                                      day)
                                                 result in a $200 permit fee.
a
      Permit fees for new construction, additions and remodels are based on calculated square footage and the current ICC valuation tables (see below).
      When square footage determinations not practical or possible, permit fees will be based on applicant’s declared valuation as reasonably
      determined by Director or Designee.
b
      Permit fees for grading are based on the number of cubic yards of earth cut or filled.
c
      Permit fees for retaining walls are based on the size of the project in lineal feet.
d
      Permit fees for demolition and window/door replacement are based on declared valuation.
e
      Permit fees for large solar installations are based on applicant’s declared valuation as reasonably determined by Director or designee.
Construction Valuation Tables
The valuations below are used to determine construction valuations for building permit fee calculations. The
valuations will be updated automatically as new standards are published by ICC, which is usually twice per year.
Supplemental Construction Valuation Tables

The supplemental valuations below may be updated annually as part of the annual fee approval process.

           Construction Type                               Unit                               Valuation
                                                                                       As provided in the ICC
 Basements – Unfinished                                Square Foot                     valuation table footnote
                                                                                                above
 Basements – Finished                                  Square Foot                                $41.00
 Decks (any type)                                      Square Foot                                $22.00
 Carport/Covered Patio                                 Square Foot                                $22.00
 Roof Conversions                                      Square Foot                                $22.00
 Fence (any type)                                       Lineal Foot                               $20.00
 Retaining Wall (any type)                              Lineal Foot                               $59.00
 Exterior Finish                                       Square Foot                                 $5.00
 Fire Sprinklers                                       Square Foot                                 $6.00
 Remodel/Alteration                                    Square Foot                                $39.00
 Basement TI                                           Square Foot                                $28.00
 Grading                                          Cubic Yard Cut and Fill                         Equation
                                                                                       35% of the valuation for
 Tenant Improvements                                    Calculated
                                                                                         new construction
                                                                                       80% of the valuation for
 Shell Only                                             Calculated
                                                                                         new construction



Building and Inspection Fee Calculation

Building permit fees based on valuation are calculated based on the calculations below.

     Construction Valuation                                          Fee
  Less than and including $2,000      $70.00
                                     $76.50 for the first $2,000
                                     plus $16.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
         $2,001 to $25,000
                                     to and including $25,000.. Example: Valuation of $3,400
                                     would be $76.50 plus $33.00 ($16.50 x 2), or $109.50.
                                     $456.00 for the first $25,000
        $25,001 to $50,000           plus $12.00 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $50,000.
                                     $765.00 for the first $50,000
       $50,001 to $100,000           plus $8.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $100,000.
                                     $1,181.00 for the first $100,000
       $100,001 to $500,000          plus $6.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $500,000.
                                     $3,781.00 for the first $500,000
      $500,001 to $1,000,000         plus $5.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof,
                                     to and including $1,000,000.
                                     $6,531.00 for the first $1,000,000
           Over $1,000,001
                                     plus $4.50 for each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof.
Plan Check Fees

Plan checks for building permits include up to 4 reviews. Additional reviews will be charged the hourly fee listed below.

              Fee Type                                        Description                                   Amount
 Plan Check Fee – residential                                                                           4065% of building
                                       Applies to any non-FCOZ parcel.
 construction                                                                                             permit fee
 Plan Check Fee – commercial                                                                            65% of building
 construction                                                                                             permit fee
 Plan Check Fee – smaller
                                                                                                            $100.00
 projects
                                      Applies to any parcel within a Foothills & Canyons                65% of building
 Plan Check Fee – FCOZ projects
                                      Overlay Zone.                                                       permit fee
 Land Use Review Fee                                                                                        $110.00
 Card File Plan Check Fee –
                                      Includes accessory structures.                                        $175.00
 single-family or duplex
 Card File Plan Check Fee –
                                                                                                            $350.00
 multi-family residential
 Plan Check Fee – hourly                                                                                $80.00 per hour



Stormwater Review & Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP)


Stormwater Review & Inspection Fees

              Fee Type                                        Description                                   Amount
 Stormwater Review – base fee         Base fee per project.                                                 $200.00
 Stormwater Review – per-acre         Additional fee per acre after the first acre; applies when
                                                                                                             $30.00
 fee                                  SWPPP required.
                                      Permit is required for any development within a mapped
 Floodplain Development Permit                                                                               $75.00
                                      floodplain as required by FEMA.
 SWPPP Oversite Inspection –          Sites with an NOI are inspected on a monthly basis until
                                                                                                             $60.00
 per month                            project is complete and applicant applies for an NOT



SWPPP Control Measures
All penalties and fines may be doubled for a second or third offense. Violations may be referred to the jurisdiction’s legal
counsel for further action.

           Penalty Type                                       Description                                   Amount
   Working without an                 Per occurrence and then for each business day beginning              $500.00
   approved stormwater                the day after the day on which fine was issued
   permit
   Tracking mud on road               Per occurrence and then for each business day beginning              $300.00
                                      the day after the day on which fine was issued

   Failure to clean up or report      Per occurrence and then for each business day                        $250.00
   spills                             beginning the day after the day on which fine was issued
   Failure to conduct stormwater      Per occurrence and then for each business day beginning                $100.00
   inspections                        the day after the day on which fine was issued

   Failure to use general best        Per site, per occurrence and then for each business day                $250.00
   managmentmanagement                beginning the day after the day on which fine was issued
   practices as determined by
   the authority



SWPPP Illicit Discharge Fines

The table below lists illicit discharges common to construction and maintenance activities. It is a violation to discharge
pollutants. The presence of BMPs does not excuse an illicit discharge.

               Penalty Type                                    Description                                  Amount
 Sediment                             Per day per violation.                                                $1,000.00
 Cementitious Material                Per day per violation.                                                 $500.00
 Paints and Solvents                  Per day per violation.                                                 $500.00
 Solid Waste                          Per day per violation.                                                 $500.00
 Sanitary Waste                       Per day per violation.                                                $2,000.00
 Fuels                                Per day per violation.                                                $1,000.00
 Fertilizers                          Per day per violation.                                                 $500.00
 Organics                             Per day per violation.                                                 $250.00
 Cleansers                            Per day per violation.                                                 $500.00
 Hazardous materials                  Any illicit discharge may be assigned to this category
                                                                                                            $5,000.00
                                      depending on the impact. Per day per violation.



Land Use Fees


Permitted and Conditional Uses


                Fee Type                                       Description                                  Amount
 Building permit site plan            Over-the-counter staff review. Permitted uses not
                                                                                                            $110.00
                                      requiring separate land use permit.
 Change of Use Permit                 Over-the-counter staff review. Includes tenant changes
                                      and uses subordinate to an existing Conditional Use                   $110.00
                                      Permit.
 Sign Permit                          Over-the-counter staff review.                                        $110.00
 Business license review              Over-the-counter staff review.                                        $110.00
 Accessory Dwelling Unit              Includes limited agency review                                        $175.00
 Site Plan Review (less than 3
                                      Includes agency review meeting and technical review.                  $990.00
 acres)
 Site Plan Review (3 acres or         Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
                                                                                                           $1,640.00
 more)                                Planning Commission meeting.
 Minor Site Plan Amendments           Limited agency review                                                 $175.00
 Residential Development
                                      Includes agency review meeting and technical review.                  $990.00
 (FCOZ)
 Foothills/Canyons                    Includes agency review meeting and technical review.                  $990.00
                                    Home daycare/pre-school, mobile store, condominium
 Simple Conditional Use Permit                                                                        $175.00
                                    conversion, similar uses requiring limited staff review.
                                    Commercial uses, residential uses, or signs needing
 Other Conditional Use Permits      conditional use approval. Includes agency review,                $1,640.00
                                    technical review and Planning Commission meeting.


Subdivision and Land Development Permits

             Fee Type                                       Description                               Amount
 Minor Subdivision (<5 lots)        Includes agency review meeting and technical review.              $990.00
 Major Subdivision (Single          Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
                                                                                                     $1,640.00
 Phase)                             Planning Commission meeting.
 Major Subdivision with Multiple
                                    Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
 Phases (Includes Preliminary                                                                        $1,640.00
                                    Planning Commission Meeting
 Plat and First Phase Final Plat)
 Final Plat Approval for Phases
                                    Includes Technical Review                                         $535.00
 Two and Beyond
 Planned Unit Development
                                    Includes agency review meeting, technical review and
 (Preliminary approval and First                                                                     $1,640.00
                                    Planning Commission meeting.
 Phase Final Approval/Plat)
 Final Planned Unit Development
 Approval for Phases Two and        Includes Technical Review                                         $535.00
 Beyond
 Subdivision amendments             Includes agency review meeting and technical review. In
                                    some cases, a Planning Commission and/or Mayors
                                                                                                      $990.00
                                    meeting is required. These fees will be added as needed
                                    based on the applicable fees in this fee schedule.
 Simple Boundary Adjustment         Includes limited staff review.                                    $100.00
 Full Boundary Adjustments          Includes limited staff review. Applicable when amended
                                                                                                      $175.00
                                    plat not necessary.
 Extension of Time                  Includes review by Director.                                      $275.00


Ordinance Adjustments

             Fee Type                                       Description                               Amount
 Text Change                        Includes Planning Commission meeting and Council
                                                                                                      $765.00
                                    meeting.
 Zoning Map Change – minor          Changes less than 3 acres. Includes limited staff review,
                                                                                                      $940.00
                                    Planning Commission meeting and Council meeting.
 Zoning Map Change – small          Changes 3 up to 10 acres. Includes agency review
                                    meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting and           $1,755.00
                                    Council meeting.
 Zoning Map Change – medium         Changes over 10 up to 50 acres. Includes agency review
                                                                                                     $1,755.00
                                    meeting, staff review, Planning Commission meeting,
                                                                                                 plus $200 per acre
                                    Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
 Zoning Map Change – large          Changes over 50 up to 100 acres. Includes agency
                                                                                                     $1,755.00
                                    review meeting, staff review, Planning Commission
                                                                                                 plus $300 per acre
                                    meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
 Zoning Map Change – Major          Changes over 100 acres.                                     To be determined by
                                                                                                 agreement between
                                                                                                agency and applicant
                                                                                                prior to acceptance of
                                                                                                   the application.
Other Land Use Applications

                 Fee Type                                                     Description                                              Amount
                                                Needed for appeal of decisions, variances,
    Land Use Hearing Officer                    nonconforming use expansions, takings relief petition,                               $1,000.00 a
                                                etc.
    Land Use Hearing Officer                    Double fee if construction has started.                                               $2,000.00
    Administrative Determination                Requires Director review.                                                              $275.00
    Special Exception to have Use
                                                Planning Commission meeting.                                                           $650.00
    violation declared legal
                                                Base fee plus costs for research time.                                           $25.00 base fee
    Zoning Verification Letter
                                                                                                                               plus $25.00 per hour
                                                Includes limited staff review, Planning Commission
    General Plan Amendment                                                                                                            $2,440.00
                                                meeting, Council meeting, and General Plan fees.
    Agency Review Meeting at
                                                Agency Review meeting that includes outside agencies.                                  $455.00
    applicants’ request
    Other applications requiring
                                                Up to 4 total review sessions. Additional charge if 4 total
    preliminary and/or technical                                                                                                       $535.00
                                                sessions exceeded for any application type.
    review.
    Other applications requiring
                                                Planning Commission meeting.                                                           $650.00
    Planning Commission meeting
    Other applications requiring
                                                Council or Mayor’s meeting.                                                            $115.00
    Council or Mayor’s meeting

a
      For appeals, if the Land Use Hearing Officer finds in favor of the appellant then the fee shall be refunded less a $100.00 administration fee.



Code Enforcement Fees

                 Fee Type                                                     Description                                              Amount
    Administrative Citation                     All minor violations unless specified otherwise.                               $100.00 per violation
                                                                                                                                  As provided in
    Civil Penalty                               Violations of zoning regulations.
                                                                                                                                 Section 19.94.070
                                                All violations of the code other than zoning violations and
    Civil Penalties
                                                as otherwise prescribed in the code.
                                                                                                                               $100.00 per violation
                                                Violation per day for first 30 days.
                                                                                                                                     per day
                                                                                                                               $150.00 per violation
                                                Violation per day for days 31-60.
                                                                                                                                     per day
                                                                                                                               $200.00 per violation
                                                Violation per day over 60 days.
                                                                                                                                     per day
                                                Administrative fee plus costs billed from Public Works or                       $100.00 plus actual
    Clean-up Fees
                                                other contracted firm.                                                                costs
    Short-Term Rental Violations
    Operating short-term rental                                                                                               $650.00 per infraction
    without a business license                                                                                                      per day
    Operating short-term rental for
                                                                                                                              $650.00 per infraction
    less than two nights for each
                                                                                                                                    per day
    stay
    Holding special event at short-                                                                                    $650.00 per infraction
    term rental – first violation                                                                                            per day
    Holding special event at short-
                                                                                                                            $1,300000.00 per
    term rental – subsequent
                                                                                                                          infraction per day    Commented [CP1]: Maximum civil penalty is limited to
    violations
                                                                                                                                                fine for class B misdemeanor amount. See UCA 10-3-
                                                                                                                       $100.00 per infraction   703; 76-3-301.
    Other short-term rental violations        Violations not covered in the above categories.
                                                                                                                             per day

Civil Penalties for Violation of Zoning Regulations


Violation of the provisions of Title 19 of the Magna Metro Township Municipal Code shall result in civil penalties pursuant
to the following schedule:

CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS

WARNING PERIOD: 28 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS.

Bond Administration Fees

                  Fee Type                                                Description                                          Amount
    Bond Processing Fee                       Must be paid prior to acceptance of bond.                                        $100.00
                                              Will be called if improvements are not complete by
    Bond Forfeiture                                                                                                             Varies a
                                              expiration date.
    Deferred Curb and Gutter                                                                                                    Varies b
                                              Inspections required for partial bond release or if
    Bond Reinspection                                                                                                          $100.00
                                              applicant fails bond inspections twice.
    Overtime/After-hours Inspection                                                                                      $120.00 (Per hour)
a
      Based on bond amount.
b
      Based on project size.




Miscellaneous Service Fees

                  Fee Type                                                Description                                          Amount
    Development Agreements                                                                                                     Varies a
                                              Per hour fees for staff time not covered under specific fee
    Hourly Rate                                                                                                            $80.00 per hour
                                              types.
    GRAMA                                     Time spent on research and compiling.                                          Actual cost b
    Material Costs                            Copies, maps, CDs, USB drives, etc.                                            Actual cost b
                                              Research related to administrative decisions, zoning
                                                                                                                          $25.00 base fee
    Research                                  compliance letters, or determination of legal status of a
                                              lot or parcel.                                                            plus $25.00 per hour

                                              Activities performed by the Salt Lake County Health
    Health Department Review                                                                                                 County fee c
                                              Department.
    Postage                                   For noticing mailings, postage is charged per meeting.                         Actual cost b
    Newspaper Notices                         Notices of meetings before Councils.                                           Actual cost b
    Candidate Filing Fee                      Fee for Declaration of Candidacy in a Municipal Election                          $50.00
a
      Development agreements will be determined between local government agency and Applicant prior to acceptance of the application.
b
      Customer will be charged actual costs of materials per MSD Records and Access and Management Policy.
c
      Health Department fees will be charged as provided in the Salt Lake County Fee Schedule.
Engineering Fees

The fees below are collected by the MSD on behalf of the Engineering Division.

    Right-of-way Improvement Review & Inspection Fees                                                                                 Amount
    Replacement of existing                     Replacement of existing curb & gutter, sidewalk, and
                                                                                                                                    No charge
    improvements                                drive approach improvements in the same configuration.
                                                Changes to sidewalks and drive approaches where curb                            $20.00 base fee
    Changes to improvements
                                                & gutter are already present. Includes review and                             plus $1.00 per linear
    (existing curb & gutter)
                                                inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.                                foot
                                                Addition of curb & gutter, sidewalks, and/or drive
    Changes to improvements (no                                                                                                $150.00 base fee
                                                approaches where no curb & gutter or sidewalk are
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                                                 plus $1.00 per linear
                                                present. Includes review and inspection by County.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                                         foot
                                                Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                                               $100.00 base fee
    Changes to sidewalk (no existing            Addition of sidewalk only. Includes review and inspection
                                                                                                                              plus $1.00 per linear
    curb & gutter or sidewalk)                  by County. Design and staking by applicant.
                                                                                                                                      foot
    Changes to drive approach (no                                                                                              $100.00 base fee
                                                Addition of drive approaches only. Includes review and
    existing curb & gutter or                                                                                                 plus $0.50 per linear
                                                inspection by County. Design and staking by applicant.
    sidewalk)                                                                                                                         foot
    Engineering Plan Check Fees                                                                                                       Amount
                                                Engineering check fee, final subdivision fee and plat filing
    For Subdivision Development                                                                                                    Calculated a
                                                for subdivisions
    Amended Subdivision Plat                                                                                                          $400.00
                                                                                                                              $150 upon submittal
    Non-Subdivision Development
                                                                                                                               then Calculated b
    Other Fees                                                                                                                        Amount
    Road Dedication (non-
                                                Where required for street widening and improvements.                                  $150.00
    subdivision development)
                                                Includes sign and installation by MSD or contracted
    Street Sign                                                                                                                       $200.00
                                                service provider
    Geology/Natural Hazard Review Fees                                                                                                Amount
                                                Determination of whether project falls within boundaries
    Initial Site Assessment                                                                                                           $200.00
                                                of any mapped hazards.
                                                                                                                               Actual cost of third-
                                                                                                                                party review plus
    Review of Technical Report                  Coordination and review of third-party technical report.
                                                                                                                                $300.00 agency
                                                                                                                                     review
    Traffic Impact Review Fees                                                                                                        Amount
    Initial Site Assessment                     Determination of whether project meets TIS threshold.                                 $200.00
                                                                                                                              Actual cost of third-
    Review of Technical Report                  Coordination and review of third-party technical report.                       party review plus
                                                                                                                              $100 agency review
a
      Prior to review, 35% of 6% of improvement estimate, default of $90 per lot, minimum of $10 or the appropriate calculation. Prior to recording or
      construction, 100% of 6% of improvement estimate minus fee already paid.
b
      Prior to approval or construction, 4.5% of total improvement estimate for off-site, and on-site storm drainage minus $150 fee already paid.
Public Works – Engineering Special Events


 Special Events within the following areas require the submittal of an application: Town of Brighton, Emigration Canyon,
 Kearns, Magna, Unincorporated Salt Lake County, and White City.

 Insurance certificates, maps, and fees will need to be submitted to the Permit Specialist before your request can be
 fully processed. See fee schedule below.

Special Event Permit Fees

 # of Participants                                                Fee per day

 0 to 100                                                         $50.00

 100 to 200                                                       $100.00

 200 to 400                                                       $200.00

 400 to 600                                                       $500.00

 Over 600                                                         $1,000.00

 Filming Fees                                                     $200.00



     •      $50 fee for Big Cottonwood Canyon and any Unincorporated Salt Lake County areas.

     •      Special events or Filming held on any state roadway(s) may also require an additional permit from Utah
            Department of Transportation.

     •      Special events or Filming held in any canyon may also require an additional permit from United States
            Department of Agriculture, Forest Service Division.

     •      Sponsors of block parties will also be required to submit paperwork with the signatures of affected
            neighbors' concurrence of the road closure. This paperwork should reflect the addresses of each resident,
            as well as their signature indicating agreement for the road closure. Barricades and security are the
            responsibility of the applicant.
Glossary of Terms


Condominium Plat: The procedure to review and record a condominium plat is subject to the Condominium Ownership
Act (57.8- Utah Code). Staff review includes addressing all units, a review to verify compliance with the zoning ordinance
and conditions of approval previously imposed and an engineering review to verify compliance with platting requirements.

Director: The Director of Planning and Development or designee.

General Plan Amendment: Planning Commissions make a recommendation to the Council who must authorize
Amendments to a General Plan. A study that includes public involvement is conducted after Council gives the direction to
proceed to the Development Services Director.

Home Daycare I Pre-school Application Fees: Although a home daycare or pre-school may be operated out of a private
residence, it is not considered or reviewed in the same manner as a home business. Therefore, they are listed separately
in the fee schedule and in the ordinance.

Modification to a Recorded Subdivision Plat: Utah Code requires a specific process be followed to amend, vacate or
alter a recorded subdivision plat. This involves application, notice, a public hearing before the planning commission and
executive (commonly referred to as a 608 hearing/ Mayor's Meeting). Additionally, an engineering review of the
preliminary and final plat prior to approval and recording is required. Fees may include Planning Commission Review,
Additional Public Body Review, Technical Review.

MSD: Means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, which the Town of       has contracted with to provide
planning and zoning, building permit, business license, and code enforcement services

PUD (Planned Unit Development): In those zones which allow development of a PUD they are listed as a Conditional
Use, which requires review by the Planning Commission. For developers who intend to sell individual lots within the PUD
both the Planning Commission Review, Conditional Use and a Subdivision Preliminary Plat review would be required ,
and a Technical Review prior to final approval is also required. Per the fee schedule each of these reviews requires
separate fee.

Additionally, because more than one review process is required the application would also involve an Agency Review
Meeting. Fees may include: Agency Coordination Meeting, Planning Commission Review (Conditional Use), Planning
Commission Review (Preliminary Plat), Technical Review.

The conditional use approval (Planning Commission approval) is required prior to preparation of the subdivision
preliminary plat to ensure that the recommendations of the Planning Commission are properly incorporated into the
preliminary plat.

Re-Zone (Zoning Map Amendment): A request to change the existing zoning (re-zone) requires: review and
recommendation from the planning commission (Public Body Review) and final decision by the council (Additional Public
Body Review)and technical work (Technical Review) for map and index work).

Signs: Signs vary in the type and complexity of review process required therefore they are listed under several review
types. It is intended that the fees are assessed per review process and not per sign. For example, a business that had 2
signs requiring Planning Commission review would be charged for 1 Planning Commission review. However, a business
which had 1 sign which required Planning Commission review and another sign which did not would be charged for 1
Planning Commission review and 1 staff review.

Subdivision: A request to subdivide property requires review and approval of a preliminary plat, and a Technical Review
of the Final Plat. Additionally, an Agency Review Meeting is required. Note that in the case of a "one-lot" subdivision there
might also be an Administrative Review for the proposed Single-Family Dwelling. Fees may include: Agency Coordination
Meeting, Planning Commission Meeting, Technical Review, Staff Review of a Site Plan.

Valuation: The estimated construction cost for a project.
                                   EMIGRATION CANYON

          ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-08                               DATE: August 26, 2025

AN ORDINANCE REPEALING AND REPLACING TITLE 14 CHAPTER 56 “SPECIAL
     EVENTS” REGULATING EVENTS WITHIN EMIGRATION CANYON
       WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-8-84, grants municipalities authority “to provide for the safety
and preserve the health, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of property in the
city.”

       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon attracts events and activities from individuals and
businesses that affect transportation to and within the municipality, and create negative impacts to
residents and businesses such as traffic congestion and road closures, parking problems, noise, etc.

        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Council (“Council”) finds that amendments to regulating
special events will better provide for the safety and enjoyment of visitors, residents, businesses
and property owners.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

      SECTION I: Title 14, Chapter 56, is hereby repealed and replaced as set forth in
Attachment A.

       Section II: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be effective upon publication.

                                  [Execution on following page]
            ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Emigration Canyon
Council on this 26th day of August 2025.

EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL


___________________________________
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor


ATTEST:




________________________________
Diana Baun, City Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka                    voting _____
Council Member Hawkes           voting _____
Council Member Brems            voting _____
Council Member Pinon            voting _____
Council Member Harris           voting _____


  (Complete as Applicable)
  Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
  §10-3-711: _________________________________________________________________
  Effective date of ordinance: ___________________




                                          2
 Chapter 14.56 SPECIAL EVENTS

 14.56.010 Purpose
 14.56.020 Application of Provisions
 14.56.030 Definitions
 14.56.040 Permit Required
 14.56.050 Exemptions from Permit Requirement
 14.56.060 Permits Information
 14.56.070 Permit - Application Procedures
 14.56.080 Permit - Application Processing
 14.56.090 Permit - Fees
 14.56.100 Permit - Approval and Denial
 14.56.110 Protest Zones
 14.56.120 Permit - Liability Insurance and Indemnification
 14.56.130 Appeal Procedures
 14.56.140 Violation - Penalty

14.56.010 Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to establish permit requirements for Special Events that
impact the public’s right to safely and conveniently use public roads, sidewalks,
transportation systems, other municipal property, and the quiet enjoyment of private
property within the municipality.

The permit requirements and other regulations in this chapter are designed to balance
the public’s right to exercise free speech on municipal streets and sidewalks and on
municipal property with the public’s right to safely and conveniently use municipal streets
and sidewalks and other municipal property.

14.56.020 Application of Provisions

This chapter imposes regulatory requirements on certain activities which impact public
streets, roadways, sidewalks and municipal property, and which are defined as a
“Special Event.” The requirements imposed by this chapter do not alter, supersede or
nullify any requirements contained in other statutes, ordinances or regulations which
may also regulate these same activities. These requirements shall be applied in a
content-neutral manner and without discrimination as to age, disability, marital status,
race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, political affiliation or other unlawful
discriminatory classification.

14.56.030 Definitions

For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:

"Athletic Event" means an organized competitive or recreational event, including all
commercial events, in which a group of fifty or more people collectively engages in a
sport or form of physical exercise, including but not limited to running, jogging, walking,
bicycling or skating, on any municipal street or sidewalk or upon municipal property.

“Bicycling Event” is included in the definition of an Athletic Event, and means an
organized, coordinated, competitive, or recreational event in which a group of 10 or more
people travel a public road or highway on, or using, bicycles.

"Block Party" means an outdoor public party put on by residents of a neighborhood that
requires closing down streets, sidewalks or municipal property.

"Street" means a public or private road or highway within the municipality.

"Entertainment Event" means an organized event, including all commercial events,
involving the preplanned participation of more than fifty people, having as its primary
purpose the entertainment, celebration, or amusement of a group of people, including but
not limited to parades, carnivals, fairs, concerts, weddings, receptions, block parties;
Filming Activities, or neighborhood gatherings.

“Filming Activities” means the staging, shooting, filming, videotaping, photographing, or
other similar processes.

"Nonpublic Forum" means municipal property that is not designated or traditionally
considered a place for public expression or speech. Examples of non-public forums
include municipal offices and employee office space, backstage at a theater, or any other
municipal property that is not designated or traditionally used for public expression or
speech.

"Political Event" means an organized event involving the preplanned participation of
more than fifty people, not including an athletic or Entertainment Event, having as its
primary purpose the exercise of expressive activities of a political nature, including but
not limited to speechmaking, picketing, protesting, marching, demonstrating or debating
public issues, on any public road or highway.

"Protest Zone" means an area set aside on municipal property specifically designated
for persons to exercise free speech rights.

"Public Forum" means municipal roads, sidewalks, rights-of-way and municipal property
that has by tradition been used by the public for assembly and expression, or municipal
property that has not traditionally been open for public assembly and debate but that the
municipality has opened for use by the public as a place for assembly and expression.

"Sidewalk" means that area between the curb line and the municipal easement or right
of way on either side of a public street and not including a highway located within
municipality.

"Special Event" means any Athletic Event, Entertainment Event, Political Event, or other
organized event whether held for profit, nonprofit or charitable purposes with more than
50 participants.

"Spontaneous Event" means an event that is occasioned by news or affairs coming into
public knowledge less than forty-eight hours prior to the event and is conducted at a
public forum.

14.56.040 Permit Required

     A. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity,
        public or private, to organize and hold a Special Event without first obtaining a
        Special Event permit and paying the fees as required in this chapter.
     B. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity,
        public or private, to impede access to, or cause the closure of, any street,
        roadway, or sidewalk in association with a Special Event without first obtaining
        a Special Event permit and paying the fees as required in this chapter. Liability
        under this chapter shall only apply to organizers and shall not extend to
        participants of a non-permitted event, unless the participants knowingly act in
        violation of this chapter or other state or local law.
     C. All permits issued pursuant to this chapter are nontransferable and expire on the
        date specified.

14.56.050 Exemptions from Permit Requirement

This chapter shall not apply to:
     A. Gatherings, demonstrations, or protests of fifty people or less who gather at a
        public forum to exercise their constitutionally protected rights under the First
        Amendment of the United States Constitution.
     B. A person, organizer or promoter using a municipal facility for Special Events
        pursuant to a contract with the municipality. Such contracts shall be in standard
        form and used in accordance with the regular and normal business purposes of
        the municipal facility.
     C. Any meeting or event that is subject to the Utah Open Meetings Act.
     D. A spontaneous event held at a public forum. This chapter does apply to an event
        held at a nonpublic forum. Organizers of spontaneous events are encouraged
        to give as much advanced notice as reasonably possible to permit the
        municipality to provide services necessary to promote, protect, and assure the
        safety and convenience of the people in their use of municipal streets and
        sidewalks and of municipal property. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude
        the municipality from enforcing other laws, ordinances, or regulations adopted
        to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality and its citizens.
     E. Events are exempt from this chapter only if the event complies with all of the
        following:
             1. The event will not involve more than 50 attendees; and
             2. The event does not affect the public's right to safely and conveniently
                use public roads, sidewalks, transportation systems, and other municipal
                property; and
           3. The event does not violate municipal or health department noise
              regulations; and
           4. The organizer has obtained all other required approvals or permits with
              law enforcement, emergency medical service, the health department,
              and any County, State, or Federal agency with a regulatory interest in
              the event. Event organizers shall provide the municipality with a copy of
              all such approvals or permits as soon as reasonably possible.

14.56.060 Permits Information

    A. Municipal staff shall be responsible for coordinating and overseeing the
       issuance of Special Event permits, with the assistance of the local law
       enforcement, the health department, the engineering division, and any other
       municipal agency, division, or department with an interest in a Special Events
       permit application.
    B. The municipal staff shall prepare and distribute checklists and informational
       materials for use by the public and others regarding the Special Event permit
       process. These materials shall be designed to give adequate information
       regarding Special Event permits, explain the permitting process, list those
       municipal agencies and offices involved in that process, and explain the
       circumstances in which each agency has a role in issuing a permit.
    C. The municipal staff shall assist members of the public with information to apply
       for and receive Special Event permits and shall be able to direct persons to
       those municipal agencies or employees who have a role in issuing a permit.

14.56.070 Permit - Application Procedures

    A. All applications for Special Event permits in the municipality shall be made on a
       Special Event permit application form and shall include the following
       information:
           1. Type and description of event;
           2. Name of the sponsoring entity, contact person, mailing address, email
              address and direct telephone numbers for the contact person;
           3. Name of the promoting entity, contact person, address and direct
              telephone number/s;
           4. If the event requires a street closure or restriction, list the proposed
              date/s, together with beginning and ending times and road closure times,
              locations, barricade plan (organizer must provide traffic
              cones/barricades), traffic detour plan, parking, and route map;
           5. Estimated numbers of event staff, security staff, participants and
              spectators;
           6. Admission fee, donation, or other consideration to be charged or
              requested;
            7. Signature of applicant; and
            8. If the event is a Block Party, the applicant must submit with the
               application form a traffic detour and parking plan that will accommodate
               affected residents and emergency access.
            9. The organizer must obtain all other required approvals or permits with
               law enforcement, emergency medical service, the health department,
               and any County, State, or Federal agency with a regulatory interest in
               the event. Event organizers shall provide the municipality with a copy of
               all such approvals or permits as soon as reasonably possible.
     B. Special Event permit application forms may be obtained from the municipality.
    C. Applicants are required to submit application forms to the Town Clerk or
       municipal staff at least sixty calendar days before the event is scheduled to take
       place, in order to allow sufficient time to process the application and to allow
       timely appeal in the event the application is denied. Applications submitted less
       than sixty calendar days prior to the scheduled event may be denied unless the
       applicant demonstrates that compliance with the sixty day deadline was
       impractical or impossible due to the nature of the event. The municipality shall
       review applications filed less than sixty days before the event and may approve
       late applications if:
            1. All other requirements have been met,
            2. The municipality has the ability to evaluate the application in the time
               provided by the applicant,
            3. The municipality has sufficient time to prepare for the event to ensure
               the safety and general welfare of participants and municipal citizens, and
            4. The application is not for an event (a) requiring restricting a public road;
               or (b) involving a group of more than fifty people.
    D. Special Events that cross through the municipality, or that involve multiple
       governmental jurisdictions, are subject to formal authorization from all relevant
       governing bodies. Applicants’ approved authorization from all relevant
       governing bodies must be submitted with, or updated in, the organizer’s Special
       Event Application.

14.56.080 Permit - Application Processing

    A. Upon receipt of a Special Event permit application, the municipality shall
       circulate copies of the application to the following agencies for the purpose of
       obtaining their approval or denial of the proposed Special Event:
            1. Health Department;
            2. Unified Police Department and other relevant law enforcement agencies;
            3. Unified Fire Authority and other relevant emergency medical services
               agencies;
             4. Utah Department of Transportation;
             5. Utah Transit Authority;
             6. United States Forest Service
             7. Public works department, engineering division, if the Special Event
                requires the closure of streets or sidewalks; and
             8. Any other municipal, county, or state agency that will provide a service
                in connection with the Special Event.
     B. In reviewing an application, the agencies involved shall consider the following:
             1. The impact of the Special Event on the traffic, parking, security, health
                and safety of the public;
             2. A determination by the agency of appropriate and reasonable
                requirements for the mitigation of traffic, parking, security, health and
                safety concerns, and an evaluation of the measures proposed by the
                applicant to satisfy those requirements;
             3. Assessment of sound levels generated from the event and its impact on
                neighboring properties and other municipal occupants;
             4. The demonstrated ability of the applicant to comply with the
                requirements necessary to protect the safety, health and welfare of the
                public;
             5. The location and duration of the Special Event and the municipality's
                ability to accommodate the event with the necessary resources; and
             6. Other previously approved Special Events that could cause scheduling
                conflicts during the same period and cause overextension of the
                municipality's resources.
    C. The agencies involved in reviewing an application may impose additional
       requirements or conditions necessary to protect the public interest by ensuring
       traffic management, parking, security of property, or the health and safety of the
       public.

14.56.090 Permit - Fees

     A. Each initial application for a Special Event permit shall be accompanied by a
        nonrefundable fee, set by the council and listed in the consolidated fee
        schedule, to defray the administrative costs of processing the application. The
        Special Event application fee amount is listed in the municipality’s fee schedule.
        The municipality may waive, at its discretion, all or a portion of the fee for events
        that benefit the municipality and/or residents.
     B. In order to promote, protect and assure the safety and convenience of the
        people in their use of streets, sidewalks and municipal property, local law
        enforcement shall coordinate the use of professional peace officers if the
        Special Event requires traffic control, and an additional fee shall be charged by
       the local law enforcement to cover the costs incurred. The local law enforcement
       shall specify the fee required upon its approval of the Special Event permit
       application, based upon the number of officers and amount of support
       equipment required by such factors as: The date and time of the event; the route
       location and length; the anticipated traffic and weather conditions; the
       anticipated number of participants and spectators; the nature, composition,
       format and configuration of the event; and the estimated time for the event. The
       fee charged for traffic control or additional police protection shall be paid prior
       to the issuing of the Special Event permit.
    C. Additional fees may be charged by for special services, equipment or facilities.
       Such additional fees shall be specified at the time the agency approves the
       Special Event permit application and shall be paid directly to the agency prior to
       the issuing of the Special Event permit.
    D. All Special Events that involve organized, coordinated, competitive, or
       recreational events, in which a group of 10 or more people travel a public road
       or highway, and that will affect the free flow of traffic on public roads or highways,
       shall have a minimum of two local law enforcement officers to monitor and direct
       the event participants or traffic. Additional officers will be required based on the
       number of participants and the proposed activity.
    E. The following Special Events shall be exempt from the fees set forth in this
       section:
            1. Political Events that do not require traffic control;
            2. Parades of less than one mile in length and that do not require traffic
               control;
            3. Events sponsored in whole or in part by the municipality;
            4. Private non-commercial weddings;
            5. Block parties; and
            6. Revenue-raising events where the revenue flows to the direct benefit of
               the municipality.

14.56.100 Permit - Approval And Denial

    A. A Special Event permit application shall be approved and a permit shall be
       issued to the applicant by the municipality upon approval by all affected
       departments and agencies, and compliance with the requirements of this
       chapter. The municipality shall notify all affected agencies of all Special Event
       permits issued pursuant to this chapter.
    B. The municipality or other applicable agency may deny a permit application for a
       Special Event if:
            1. The proposed Special Event violates a law, ordinance, policy and
               procedure, or regulation related to the time, place or manner of the
               proposed Special Event;
        2. The proposed Special Event is not consistent with the intended nature
           and use of the requested municipal property unless the applicant
           demonstrates that there is no alternative forum by which the applicant
           may reach the intended audience with the same intended message.
        3. The proposed Special Event is scheduled at a place and time that will
           disrupt the use of an already approved Special Event permit.
        4. The proposed Special Event does not provide for adequate adult
           supervision for minors scheduled to participate.
        5. The proposed location or facility is not adequate to accommodate the
           proposed Special Event, or the nature of the event is such that the
           municipality does not have sufficient resources available to ensure the
           health, safety, and welfare of Special Event participants or the general
           public.
        6. The application for      permit   contains    a   material   falsehood   or
           misrepresentation.
        7. The applicant is legally incompetent to contract, or to sue and be sued.
        8. The applicant has an unpaid debt to the municipality or any law
           enforcement agency or personnel for prior costs incurred during a prior
           Special Event and the applicant has failed to satisfy that debt.
C. The municipality or an affected agency may condition the issuance of a Special
   Events permit on the applicant satisfying conditions. For example, the
   municipality may require that the applicant provide adequate bathroom facilities,
   security, or post a bond for cleaning up or other costs. Any conditions imposed
   on an applicant should be reasonable and necessary to ensure the health,
   safety, and welfare of event participants and municipal residents.
D. If the municipality or other agency denies a permit application for a Special Event,
   it shall:
        1. Specify in detail the basis for the denial by citing to the law, ordinance,
           policy and procedure, or regulation justifying the denial, and describe
           how the Special Event is not consistent with the cited provision; and
        2. Describe how the burden on free speech, if any, brought about by the
           denial is necessary to facilitate the municipality's interest in protecting
           the health, safety and welfare of municipal residents.
E. The municipality, in consultation with other relevant offices or departments, in
   denying a permit application, may authorize a Special Event permit at a date,
   time, location, or route different from that requested by the applicant. An
   applicant shall notify the municipality that it will accept an alternative permit
   within three days of receiving notice of the alternative permit, but no later than
   three days prior to the scheduled Special Event.
F. The municipality, in consultation with other relevant offices or departments, shall
   have the authority to revoke any permit upon violation of the conditions or
        standards for issuance. The municipality may also revoke a permit in the event
        of a declaration of emergency.
    G. The local law enforcement may disperse a Special Event that is being conducted
       inconsistent with the conditions of a Special Event permit, or if the event is in-
       violation of any federal, state or local law.

14.56.110 Protest Zones

     A. The municipality is responsible to establish protest zones at municipal facilities,
     where appropriate.
             1. The need, location and size of protest zones will be established upon
                consultation and with the approval of the mayor and municipal attorney.
             2. Protest zones will be established with due care to ensure safe entry to,
                exit from, and appropriate use of municipal facilities by patrons and the
                public.
             3. Zones shall generally be located on municipal-owned property. Protest
                zones will not be placed in the public right-of-way and may not be placed
                on municipal or private property unless the owners consent to such use.

14.56.120 Permit - Liability Insurance And Indemnification

     A. All Special Events must obtain general liability and property damage coverage
        as specified in this chapter. Special Event permit shall be issued unless and until
        the applicant has submitted to the municipality a certificate of insurance, listing
        the municipality as an additional insured, on an occurrence policy issued by an
        insurance company authorized to do business in the state, showing
        comprehensive general liability and property damage coverage for the event
        with minimum limits of: One million dollars for injury or death for one person in
        any one occurrence; two million dollars for injury or death for two or more
        persons in any one occurrence; and one million dollars for property damage in
        any one occurrence.
     B. The following Special Events shall be exempt from the insurance requirements
        set forth in this section:
             1. Political Events;
             2. Parade of less than one mile in length;
             3. School events located on, or directly adjacent to, school property;
             4. Events sponsored in whole by the municipality; and
             5. Block parties.
     C. In consideration for the issuing of a Special Event permit and the use of
        municipal streets and sidewalks or municipal property, the applicant agrees to
        indemnify, hold harmless and defend the municipality, its officers and
        employees, against any claim for loss, damage or expense sustained by any
        person on account of injury, death or property damage occurring by reason of
        or arising out of the Special Event.

14.56.130 Appeal Procedures

Any permit applicant desiring to appeal an administrative decision to deny an application
for a Special Event permit, or any decision to impose a condition on the issuance of a
permit, may petition the Town Clerk within seven calendar days after the date the
applicant received notice of the administrative denial or condition. After reviewing the
petition appealing the denial and the written denial, the mayor shall, within seven
calendar days, issue a written decision. If an applicant submits an application within
fourteen calendar days of the event, the municipality will utilize its best efforts to timely
process the application and to resolve the appeal on an expedited basis.

14.56.140 Violation - Penalty

A violation of Section 14.56.040 shall be a class B misdemeanor or may be enforced
under the Chapter 12.1 Administrative Code Enforcement. Failure to obtain a permit as
required by this chapter may also result in enforcement action by the municipality’s local
law enforcement which may stop an event that has been issued a permit and/or may issue
citations where event staff or participants violate other state statutes or municipal
ordinances, including but not limited to traffic rules and regulations, disturbing the peace,
public nuisance, failure to disperse, trespass, or other health and safety regulations.
                                  ORDINANCE 2025-O-05

        Ordinance No. 2025-O-05                          Date: August 26th, 2025


AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL ELIMINATING
THE AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION TO THE REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILD-
ING AND LAND USE PERMITS IN SUBSECTION 19.02.090 AND REPEALING
 AND REPLACING CHAPTER 19.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMIN-
                         ISTRATION.


                                       RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
       WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
consolidate and update its General Provisions and Administration into Chapter 19.02 of
the Zoning Ordinance; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on July 10th, 2025, to consider a land use ordinance eliminating the Agricultural Exemption
to the Building and Use Permit requirement in Subsection 19.02.090; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on July 10th, 2025, to consider a land use ordinance to consolidate and update its General
Provisions and Administration into Chapter 19.02 of the Zoning Ordinance; and
      WHEREAS, the agricultural exemption to be eliminated is part of Chapter 19.02
and can be adopted as part of the action to repeal and replace the General Provisions and
Administration; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
the existing Chapter 19.02 General Provisions and Administration and replace it with the
Chapter 19.02 General Provisions and Administration that includes the elimination of the
agricultural exemption to building and use permits attached to this ordinance as Attachment
A for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
   1. Chapter 19.02 General Provisions and Administration is repealed and replaced
      with the language in Attachment A to this Ordinance.
   2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
         specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
         shall continue in full force and effect.
    3. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
       needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
       limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
       finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
       non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
    4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
       to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of August 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL

______________________________________________

By: Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka                          voting _____
Council Member Hawkes                 voting _____
Council Member Brems                  voting _____
Council Member Harris                 voting _____
Council Member Pinon                  voting _____
                               SUMMARY OF
                         EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                          ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-05

On August 26th, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-05,
repealing and replacing Chapter 19.02 General Provisions and Administration.


______________________________
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor




ATTEST                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________                ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                           Cameron Platt, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka              voting _____
Council Member Hawkes     voting _____
Council Member Brems      voting _____
Council Member Harris     voting _____
Council Member Pinon      voting _____


A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-05 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
                                          ATTACHMENT A
                  Chapter 19.02: General Provisions and Administration
19.02.010 - Title For Citation

This Title is known as "The Zoning Ordinance of the Emigration Canyon City" and is referred to herein as
“the Ordinance” or “this Ordinance.”

19.02.020 - Reserved

19.02.030 - Purpose

A. The Ordinance is intended to promote and support the goals and policies of the Emigration Canyon
   City’s General Plan, and for the following purposes:

    1. To promote the general health, safety and welfare of the present and future inhabitants,
       businesses, and visitors of Emigration Canyon,

    2. To support small-scale economic opportunities and business that promote outdoor recreation,
       community services for residents, environmental preservation, or sustainable transportation,

    3. To support sustainable and responsible recreation and tourism,

    4. To regulate responsible alteration and development of land that promotes safety for people,
       wildlife, water, and the natural landscape.

    5. To provide for well-planned commercial and residential centers, safe and efficient traffic and
       pedestrian circulation, preservation of night skies and efficient delivery of municipal services,

    6. To secure safety from fire and other dangers, and

    7. To regulate housing and development to reduce impacts on the environment.

19.02.040 - Applicability

A. Territorial Application. All land and parcels of real property within the jurisdictional limits of the
   Emigration Canyon City are covered by the provisions of this Ordinance.

B. General Applicability.

    1. The regulations contained in this Ordinance apply to all uses, structures, and parcels of real
       property, including those recorded prior to the enactment of this Ordinance.

    2. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this Ordinance. Except for
       dwelling groups, not more than one (1) dwelling structure may occupy one (1) lot.

C. General Prohibition. No portion or whole of any structure or land may be used, occupied, constructed,
   moved, enlarged, or structurally altered except as provided by this Ordinance. Land needed to meet
    the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of this Title for a lot or building shall
    not be sold or conveyed away from such lot or building.

D. Private Agreements. This Ordinance is not intended to enforce any private agreement or covenant. If
   this Ordinance is more restrictive than a private agreement or covenant, this Ordinance prevails.

E. Other Laws and Regulations. This Ordinance supersedes less restrictive State or municipal statutes,
   ordinances, or regulations.

19.02.050 - Transition Rules

A. In those instances where this Ordinance conflicts with previously applicable zoning regulations, the
   following rules apply:

    1. Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots consolidated into one taxable parcel may not
       be re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area required in the underlying zone.

    2. Previously Issued Building Permits. If a building permit for a structure was lawfully issued prior to
       the effective date of this Ordinance or any amendments to this Ordinance, and if construction has
       begun within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the issuance of that permit, the structure may
       be completed in accordance with the plans on the basis of which the building permit was issued
       and upon completion may be occupied under an occupancy permit for the use originally intended.

    3. Previously Granted Approvals.

        a. All approvals granted prior to the effective date of this Ordinance remain in full force and
           effect. The recipient of the approval may proceed to develop the property in accordance with
           the approved plans and any applicable conditions.

        b. If the recipient has failed to act on an approval before the approval expires, including any
           periods of extension granted, the provisions of this Ordinance control.

19.02.060 - Inactive Applications

Applications for property development and/or use permits shall be actively pursued to a final decision by
the town. If no activity such as plan submittals, reviews, meetings, or communication by the applicant has
occurred on an application for one hundred eighty (180) days, the application will be deemed as inactive,
and the file closed. The applicant may submit a written request to maintain the application as active,
wherein upon finding that there is good cause and reasonable belief that the application will be pursued
to completion, the Director, or their designee may grant a one-time ninety (90) day extension. Once a file
is closed, an applicant will be required to reapply for permits or development.

19.02.070 - Severability

If any provision of this Ordinance is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that
judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the remaining provisions of this Ordinance. The
effect of the judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in which the
judgment or decree was rendered.
19.02.080 - Vesting

A. An Applicant is entitled to a substantive review and approval of a land Use Application if the
   Application conforms to the requirements of the Town’s Land Use and Zoning Maps, the municipal
   specification for public improvements application to a Subdivision or Development, and the applicable
   land Use ordinance in effect when a Complete Application is submitted and all fees have been paid,
   unless:

    1. the land Use authority, on the record, finds that a compelling, countervailing public interest would
       be jeopardized by approving the Application; or

    2. before the Application is submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings by publicly
       noticing an amendment to its ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the
       Application as submitted.

B. The municipality shall process an Application without regard to proceedings initiated to amend the
   municipality’s ordinances if:

    1. 180 days have passed since the proceedings were initiated; and

    2. The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the Application as
       submitted.

A. An Application for a Land Use approval is considered, submitted and complete when the Application
   is provided in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and all applicable
   fees have been paid.

B. The continuing validity of an approval of a land Use Application is conditioned upon the Applicant
   proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable diligence.

C. A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land Use ordinances and shall comply
   with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.

19.02.090 - Building and Use Permits Required

Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part thereof, as provided or
as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance of a written
permit for the same by the Building Official. The use of the land shall not be commenced or proceeded
with except upon the issuance of a written permit for the same by the Director or designee.

19.02.100 - Time Computation

A. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of the act, event or decision
   after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period
   so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the period
   runs until the end of the next day, which is neither a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday. When the period
   of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
    shall be excluded in the computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
    holiday.

B. The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission shall be the date of the public
   meeting or hearing such decision or recommendation is made. If the decision is made by the
   development services director, the date of the decision shall be the date specified on the property
   owner's notification letter in the application file.

19.02.110 - Interpretation as Minimum Requirements

In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements contained herein are declared to
be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth.

19.02.120 – Permit and Licensing Requirements

All departments, officials and public employees of the City which are vested with the duty or authority to
issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this title and shall issue no permits or licenses
for use, building or purpose where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any
such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.

19.02.130 - Land Use Applications

The Director of Planning and Development Services ("the Director") or the director's designee shall be the
administrator of the Emigration Canyon City zoning ordinance. In order to assure that each proposed land
use or proposed amendment to an existing land use is handled consistently and fully complies with the
provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall administer application and review
procedures as outlined herein unless specific procedures are otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the applicant to ensure that any action taken
to approve or deny an application is based on current information. An application shall not be considered
complete until all application fees have been paid and all required materials have been submitted. The
payment of a partial fee and preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete
application. The land use application process shall consist of the following:

A. An application procedure, which shall include:

    1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or designee, which clearly indicates
       the type and purpose of the application, property address, and applicant information;

    2. Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site plans, building
       elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;

    3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.

B. A review procedure, which may include:

    1. The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can refer to the
       proposed land use;
    2. An on-site review by the Director or designee as allowed in Utah Code 10-9a-303;

    3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning ordinance;

    4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or affected entities
       necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's
       compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;

C. An approval procedure, which shall include:

    1. The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected
       entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan and/or elevations;

    2. An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of the application
       with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with all applicable codes, ordinances,
       and regulations;

    3. Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the applicant in a timely
       manner.

19.02.140 - Improvements--Performance Bonds

A. Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission, including but not limited
   to walkways, fences, landscaping, streets, fire hydrants and parking, shall be satisfactorily installed
   prior to the City authorizing electrical service being provided; or, if no electrical service is required,
   prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the land being developed. In lieu of actual completion
   of such improvements, or in the case of landscaping, in addition to, except where seasonal
   considerations reasonably preclude installation of live plant materials, and prior to electrical service
   being provided or occupancy permit, a developer may file with the Director or designee a cash or
   surety bond or escrow agreement or letter of credit, in an amount specified by the Director or
   designee, to ensure completion of improvements within one year. Ten percent (10%) of the bond
   amount for public improvements, such as walkways, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall extend for
   a one-year period beyond the date the improvements are completed, to guarantee replacement of
   such defective public improvements. Ten percent (10%) of the bond amount for live plant materials
   shall extend for a one-year period beyond the date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased
   or dead plants. Upon completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has
   been filed, the developer shall call for inspections of the improvements by the Director or designee.

B. If the Director or designee determines that the required improvements should be completed in a
   specified sequence and/or in less than a one-year period in order to protect the health, safety and
   welfare of the City or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other hazards, the Director or
   designee may require in approving the bond that the improvements be installed in a specified
   sequence and period which may be less than one year and shall incorporate such requirements in the
   bond.
C. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
   3.56 of this code.

D. When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose district or other
   political subdivision of the state, the Mayor may waive the bond and accept a letter from the governing
   body guaranteeing installation of the improvements. Before approving any such waiver, the Mayor
   shall receive a recommendation from the Municipal Engineer.
                               ORDINANCE 2025-O-09

Ordinance No. 2025-O-09                                      Date: August 26, 2025

    AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL
  AMENDING THE ZONING MAP TO CHANGE THE ZONING OF THE 0.88
  ACRES OF THE PROPERTY AT APPROXIMATELY 4180 EMIGRATION
  CANYON ROAD FROM R-M (RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY) TO FR-20
                  (FORESTRY RECREATION)


                                      RECITALS
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon City is a municipality and has authority to
regulate Zoning in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-3c-103 (2); and
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon City has authority to adopt zoning ordinances,
including a zoning map pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, (“MLUDMA”), Title 10,
Section 9a, Utah Code, to establish zones within the city; and
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Planning Commission have discussed the need
for Multi-Family zoning in Emigration Canyon and have reached a consensus that this type
of zoning is not appropriate for the canyon; and
      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission proposes the
elimination of the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district; and
        WHEREAS, in order to eliminate the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning
district, that zone must not be applied to any property within the jurisdiction; and
      WHEREAS, the only parcel zoned Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is 0.88 acres,
is owned by Salt Lake City, and is currently used for commercial parking; and
       WHEREAS, Salt Lake City has not indicated any interest in using the subject parcel
for any use other than those that exist.; and
      WHEREAS, the amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on June 17, 2024, to consider a zoning map amendment for the 0.88 acres of land located
at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road; and
      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission has recommended that
the Council amend the zoning map for the 0.88 acres of land located at approximately 4180
Emigration Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20 (Forestry
Recreation) for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general
welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.     The Zoning Map of Emigration Canyon City is hereby amended as follows:

The 0.88 acres located at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road that is zoned R-M
(Residential Multi-Family) is hereby reclassified to the FR-20 (Forestry Recreation) Zone.
The rezoned property is the portion of Parcel #: 16-01-200-005 highlighted in Exhibit A:
2.      Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific
application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.

3.     Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and
publication as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of August 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL

___________________________
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka                voting _____
Council Member Hawkes       voting _____
Council Member Brems        voting _____
Council Member Harris       voting _____
Council Member Pinon        voting _____
                                   SUMMARY OF
                          EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                           ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-09

On August 26, 2025, the Emigration Canyon City Council Enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
O-09, amending its zoning map on property located at approximately 4180 Emigration
Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20 (Forestry Recreational)
Zone.


_______________________________
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor



ATTEST                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________                ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                           Cameron Platt, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka              voting _____
Council Member Hawkes     voting _____
Council Member Brems      voting _____
Council Member Harris     voting _____
Council Member Pinon      voting _____


A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-09 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
Exhibit A
Meeting    Body:        Emigration
Canyon Council

Meeting Date: August 26, 2025

Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning                                   SUMMARY
Manager
                                       The MSD Planning Staff are working with the Emigration Canyon
File Number: REZ2024-001197            Planning Commission to repeal and replace Emigration Canyon’s
Project Type:                          Zoning Ordinance. Only one small portion of one parcel is zoned
       Re-Zone / Map Revision          Residential Multi-Family (R-M). This small portion does not have
                                       any residential use and is used for a parking lot, garbage and
Areas Affected: This re-zone
                                       sewage facilities for adjacent commercial uses. Residential Multi-
would apply to the portion of
                                       Family (R-M) uses are not envisioned to be part of the proposed
parcel #16-01-200-005 currently
zoned R-M.                             ordinance. The R-M can only be eliminated if no parcels within the
                                       jurisdiction have that zone applied to them. Rezoning the
Key Findings:
                                       property to Forestry Recreation (FR-20), the zone applied to the
   •     Staff     propose      the    majority of the parcel would facilitate the elimination of the R-M
         elimination    of      the    zone from the proposed Emigration Canyon Zoning Ordinance.
         Residential Multi-Family
         (R-M) zoning district.                                ATTACHMENTS

   •     In order to eliminate the     The following attachments are included as supplementary
         Residential Multi-Family      materials to the end of this staff report:
         (R-M) zoning district, that
                                       1.   Emigration Canyon Code, Ch. 19.88 Nonconforming Uses
         zone must not be applied
                                       and Noncomplying Structures.
         to any property within the
         jurisdiction.                                          BACKGROUND
Staff Recommendation: Staff            The MSD Planning Staff are working with the Emigration Canyon
recommends that the Council re-        Planning Commission to repeal and replace Emigration Canyon’s
zone     the   subject parcel,
                                       Zoning Ordinance. When it was incorporated, Emigration Canyon
consistent with the analysis
                                       adopted a very slightly altered version of Salt Lake County’s
presented herein.
                                       Zoning Ordinance. Emigration Canyon. As part of this effort to
Planning            Commission         repeal the existing ordinance and replace it with an ordinance
Recommendation: The Planning
                                       built for Emigration Canyon, the City is evaluating which zones to
Commission Recommended that
                                       keep, which zones to eliminate, and which zones to create in order
the Council rezone the subject
                                       to better serve the community and its long term vision.
parcel from R-M to FR-20.
                                       Parcel #16-01-200-005, owned by Salt Lake City and located at
                                       approximately 4180 W Emigration Canyon Road, has two zones
                                       applied to it. The majority of the parcel, the 25.13 acres occupied
                                       by Camp Kostopulos, is zoned Forestry Recreation (FR-20). A small
                                       portion of the property (0.88 acres), part of the parking lot
                                       adjacent to Emigration Brewery, is zoned Residential Multi-Family

                      [Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 1 of 4
(R-M). This small portion of the subject parcel is the only property in Emigration Canyon zoned R-
M.




                                 PROPOSED MAP AMENDMENT
The Planning Staff and Planning Commission have discussed eliminating the R-M zone from the
proposed zoning ordinance, which is only possible if the R-M Zone is not applied to any property
in the City. The R-M zone was applied to this property only to accommodate the parking, trash
and sewage needs for the adjacent commercial establishments. These uses are established and
would become legal, nonconforming uses. In Emigration Canyon, a legal, nonconforming use can
be maintained, and a noncomplying structure can be enlarged and even moved under certain
circumstances.
These nonconforming parking, garbage and sewage facilities are not intended to stay
nonconforming in the long term. As part of the repeal and replace effort, the Staff and Planning
Commission have been reviewing a proposed Parks and Recreation zone and Public Facilities and
Institution zones. In the long term Staff would propose that the entire Camp K parcel be rezoned
to either the Parks and Recreation or Public Facilities and Institution zones. As those don’t exist in
the current ordinance, this proposed FR-20 rezone is an interim step to eliminate the R-M zone.
Any future zone change would be subject to the legislative process and the public hearings and
meetings associate with that process.

                 [Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 2 of 4
                                        STAFF ANALYSIS
General Plan Guidance:
The Emigration Canyon General Plan, adopted in 2022, is supportive of this rezone. The subject
parcel is part of the Main Canyon Corridor Character Area. The vision for this area includes
preserving the commercial area adjacent to the subject parcel and Camp Kostopulos. The
implementation strategies include preserving the unique canyon ecosystem and scenery and
supporting land use and development patterns that incorporate nature scale and use into the
built environment and increase public awareness and responsibility toward the natural
environment.
The current Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is not an appropriate zone for this area given the
vision and strategies in the General Plan. Multi-Family residential development is not part of the
heritage or existing development pattern in the canyon. The proposed Forestry Recreation (FR-
20) zone is a much more appropriate zone for this area.
Potential Zone Analysis:
The proposed rezone will not affect the operations and future vision of Camp Kostopulos. The
rezone will not hamper Salt Lake City’s use of the property as the owner of a parcel that has been
used for decades as an active recreational use of an open space area. The commercial uses will
not be hampered because the existing parking, garbage, and sewage uses will be allowed to
continue as they are and have been.
Notice:
Notice has been given in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205. Notice was mailed to each
affected entity, each property owner within the potential rezone area and each property owner
within 300’ at least 10 calendar days before the public hearing. Notice was posted on the Utah
Public Notice Website.
Review Procedure and Criteria:
The Emigration Canyon Council is the land use authority for zoning map amendments. The Council
cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The Planning Commission
must hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the Council. The Council must
then hold a public meeting after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the zoning
map amendment recommended by the Planning Commission.
A rezone can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote the public
welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or is
the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the
decision. Similarly, a rezone can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could
detrimentally impact the public welfare.


                [Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 3 of 4
This rezone is being initiated by the Staff, not by the landowner. Salt Lake City and Camp
Kostopulos have both been notified of the proposed rezone. The MSD Staff held a meeting with
Salt Lake City Public Works and Camp K to discuss the proposed rezone. Both entities will have
the opportunity to present at the public hearing if they choose. Where the property owners did
not request the rezone, they may file a written protest no later than 10 days after the day of the
first public hearing. The written protest does not preclude the Council from rezoning the property.
                       PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION
On June 17, 2024, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission, after having held a public
hearing, recommended that the Council amend the zoning map for the 0.88 acres of land located
at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20
(Forestry Recreation).
                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Based on the above review and analysis, staff finds that:
   1. MSD Planning Staff and Planning Commission have discussed the need for Multi-Family
      zoning in Emigration Canyon and have reached a consensus that this type of zoning is not
      appropriate for the canyon.
   2. MSD Planning Staff and Planning Commission propose the elimination of the Residential
      Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district.
   3. In order to eliminate the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district, that zone must not
      be applied to any property within the jurisdiction.
   4. The one parcel zoned Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is owned by a Salt Lake City.
   5. The City has not indicated any interest in using the subject parcel for any use other than
      those that exist.
   6. The Forestry Recreation (FR-20) zone is supported by the General Plan for this area.
Therefore MSD Planning Staff recommend that the subject parcel be rezoned to Forestry
Recreation (FR-20).
                                POTENTIAL COUNCIL ACTIONS
The Emigration Canyon Council could take any of the following actions, among others:
Option 1. Approval the rezone to Forestry Recreation (FR-20).
Option 2. Deny the rezone request, leaving the property in the Residential Multi-Family (R-M)
          zone.
Option 3. Table the matter, requesting more information from the Planning Staff.




                [Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 4 of 4
                                  ORDINANCE 2025-O-07

        Ordinance No. 2025-O-07                         Date: August 26th, 2025


 AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL REPEALING
  AND REPLACING CHAPTER 19.88 NONCONFORMING USES AND NON-
                  COMPLYING STRUCTURES


                                      RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
      WHEREAS, when Emigration Canyon became a Metro Township in 2017, the then
Township adopted Salt Lake County’s Zoning Ordinance, including Chapter 19.88 Non-
conforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures that the County had adopted in 2008; and
      WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
update Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on July 10th, 2025, to consider a land use updating Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and
Noncomplying Structures; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
the existing Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures and replace
it with the Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures attached to
this ordinance as Attachment A for the protection and preservation of the public health,
safety and general welfare.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
   1. Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures is repealed and
      replaced with the language in Attachment A to this Ordinance.
   2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
      specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
      shall continue in full force and effect.
   3. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
      needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
      limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
         finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
         non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
    4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
       to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of August 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL

______________________________________________

By: Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka                          voting _____
Council Member Hawkes                 voting _____
Council Member Brems                  voting _____
Council Member Harris                 voting _____
Council Member Pinon                  voting _____
                               SUMMARY OF
                         EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                          ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-07

On August 26th, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-17,
repealing and replacing Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Struc-
tures.


_______________________________
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor



ATTEST                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________                ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                           Polly McLean, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka              voting _____
Council Member Hawkes     voting _____
Council Member Brems      voting _____
Council Member Harris     voting _____
Council Member Pinon      voting _____


A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-07 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
                                     Attachment A

                                     Chapter 19.88
                Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures
19.88.010 - Purpose
This Chapter regulates the continued existence of nonconforming uses or noncomplying
structures as defined in Section 19.04. While nonconforming uses and noncomplying
structures may continue, this Chapter is intended to limit enlargement, alteration, resto-
ration, or replacement which would increase the discrepancy between existing conditions
and the developments prescribed by this Title. In addition, applications are reviewed to
ensure that they are reducing the degree of nonconformity and improving the physical
appearance of the structure and site through such measures as site and building design,
or the improved functions of the Use in relation to other uses.
19.88.020 - Determination of a Noncomplying Structure of a Nonconforming Use
The Director or designee shall determine the nonconforming or noncomplying status of
properties. As described in Utah Code 10-9a-511, the property owner shall have the bur-
den of establishing the legal existence of a noncomplying structure or nonconforming use
through substantial evidence.
A. The Director or designee shall determine a legal nonconforming use upon finding that:
   1. The use legally existed before its current land use designation;
   2. The use has been maintained and not discontinued for one year or more since the
      time the land use ordinance governing the land changed; and
   3. Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, the use does
      not conform to the regulations that govern the use of the land.
B. The Director or designee shall determine a legal noncomplying structure upon finding
   that:
   1. The structure legally existed before the structure’s current land use designation;
      and
   2. Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, the structure
      does not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.
C. Determinations. Upon review of an application, a written determination shall be issued
   by the Director or designee of the non-conforming or non-complying status on a prop-
   erty.
D. Appeals. Pursuant to Section 19.12.040 of this title, any person adversely affected by
   a final decision of the Director or designee may appeal that decision to the land use
   hearing officer.
19.88.030 - Continuation of Use
A. Continuation of a Nonconforming Use. Subject to the limitations in this section, the
   nonconforming use of land may continue, provided that no such nonconforming use
   of land can in any way expand or extend either on the same or adjoining property.
B. Continuation of a Noncomplying Structure. A Non-Complying Structure that was law-
   fully constructed may be used and maintained, subject to the standards and limitations
   of this Chapter.
19.88.040 - Abandonment or Loss of a Nonconforming Use
A. Abandonment of a Nonconforming Use. A nonconforming use that is discontinued for
   a minimum period of one (1) year is presumed abandoned and shall not thereafter be
   reestablished or resumed. Abandonment may also be presumed to have occurred if
   a majority of the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use has been
   voluntarily demolished without prior written approval of the Emigration Canyon City
   regarding the extension of the nonconforming use; or the primary structure associated
   with the nonconforming use remains vacant for a period of one (1) year.
   1. Any party claiming that a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall have the
      burden of establishing the abandonment.
   2. After a nonconforming use has been abandoned, any subsequent use of the build-
      ing, structure, or land must conform to the regulations for the zone in which it is
      located.
   3. “Majority” is defined as more than fifty percent (50%) of the square footage of the
      primary structure.
B. Rebuttable Presumption of Abandonment. After abandonment has been presumed by
   the Director or designee, the property owner may rebut the presumption of abandon-
   ment by submitting sufficient evidence that abandonment has not in fact occurred.
19.88.050 - Nonconforming Use
A. Expansion of Use Permitted. A nonconforming use may be extended through the
   same building, provided no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made
   for the purpose of the extension.
B. Change of Use.
   1. A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive
      zone where such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the Planning Commis-
      sion finds that such use would not be more intensive than the most recent existing
      legal nonconforming use.
   2. Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use is a conditional
      use and subject to the conditional use approval standards, except that the pro-
      posed nonconforming use need not conform to the adopted General Plan.
   3. As part of the change of use, structures cannot be enlarged, removed, recon-
      structed or otherwise altered except for interior remodeling and exterior restoration
      or renewal that will make the appearance of the structure more nearly conform to
      the character of the area in which it is located.
   4. As part of the change of use, the existing lot cannot be enlarged or modified except
      to create landscape, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum
      off-street parking to provide a safer and more compatible facility.
19.88.060 - Noncomplying Structure or Structure Occupied by a Nonconforming
Use
A. Maintenance, Exterior or Interior Remodeling, or Repairs Permitted. The Owner may
   complete normal maintenance and incidental repair on a complying Structure that con-
   tains a Non-Conforming Use or on a Non-Complying Structure. This Section shall not
   be construed to authorize any violations of law nor to prevent the strengthening or
   restoration to a safe condition of a Structure in accordance with an order of the Build-
   ing Official who declares a Structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
   condition.
B. Addition, Enlargement, Expansion. A non-complying structure shall not be added to,
   enlarged, or expanded in whole or in part unless the proposed change complies with
   all current land use regulations. In other words, all new square footage of building
   must fully comply with the setback, size, and height regulations set forth in this title
   (see Figure 1).
C. Moving or Reconstruction at a New Location. A non-complying structure shall not be
   moved in whole or in part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the
   same, or any other lot unless:
   1. The proposed change will lessen the degree of the existing noncompliance and
      not create any new noncompliance of all or any part of the structure; or
   2. The proposed change complies with all governing land use regulations at the time
      of the change.
   3. For the purposes of this Chapter, “lessen the degree of existing noncompliance”
      means:
      a. To decrease the gross total square footage of structure not in compliance (see
         Figure 1); and,
      b. To increase the distance from the ordinary high-water mark, wetlands, and/or
         property line when the nonconformity pertains to a setback distance.
D. Remodels Requiring Reconstruction. A noncomplying structure that has deteriorated
   to a state where a full demolition or construction or reconstruction of a foundation is
   necessary for interior or exterior remodels may be reconstructed in the same location
   subject to current land use regulations. The existing noncompliance may continue if
   the degree of noncompliance is not increased or a new violation in land use regula-
   tions is not created.
   1. A noncomplying structure that has deteriorated to a condition that the structure is
      rendered uninhabitable may not be reconstructed, restored, or substituted, once
      written notice from the Emigration Canyon City is served to the property owner that
      the structure is uninhabitable and that the nonconforming use or noncomplying
      structure will be lost if the property owner does not apply with a complete land use
      application within one (1) year from the day in which the written notice is served.
E. Damage or Destruction. A noncomplying structure or structure occupied by a noncon-
   forming use that is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other
   calamity or act of God or the public enemy, and the damage is not the result of the
   intentional or reckless disregard of the owners or occupants, may be restored, and the
   occupancy or use of such structure or part thereof that existed at the time of such
   damage or destruction may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration
   is started within a period of one (1) year following damage or destruction, and the
   restoration is diligently prosecuted to completion.
                19.88.060 Figure 1 Adding to a non-complying structure
                              ORDINANCE 2025-O-06

        Ordinance No. 2025-O-06                         Date: August 26th, 2025

 AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL REPEALING
  CHAPTERS 19.08 F-1 FORESTRY ZONE, 19.44 R-M RESIDENTIAL ZONE,
     AND 19.56 C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE FROM TITLE 19 ZONING


                                      RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
      WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
eliminate zones that are not used on Emigration Canyons adopted zoning map;
      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on July 10, 2025 to consider repealing Chapters 19.08 F-1 Forestry Zone, 19.44 R-M
Residential Zone, and 19.56 C-1 Commercial Zone, from Title 19 Zoning (the “Proposed
Action”) in accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205and 10-9a-502; and
       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
Chapters 19.08 F-1 Forestry Zone, 19.44 R-M Residential Zone, and 19.56 C-1
Commercial Zone from Title 19 Zoning to eliminate unused zones and chapters and for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.    Chapter 19.08 F-1 Forestry Zone is hereby repealed.

2.    Chapter 19.44 R-M Residential Zone is hereby repealed.
3.    Chapter 19.56 C-1 Commercial Zone is hereby repealed.
4.    Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
      specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
      shall continue in full force and effect.
5.    Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
      needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
      limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
      finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
      non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
6.    Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
      to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26th day of August 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL



By: Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka              voting _____
Council Member Hawkes     voting _____
Council Member Brems      voting _____
Council Member Harris     voting _____
Council Member Pinon      voting _____
                                SUMMARY OF
                          EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                           ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-06

On August 26th, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-06,
repealing Chapters 19.08, 19.44, 19.56, and 19.86 of Title 19 Zoning.



By: Joe Smolka, Mayor



ATTEST                                        APPROVED AS TO FORM



__________________________                    _____________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                          Cameron Platt, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka              voting _____
Council Member Hawkes     voting _____
Council Member Brems      voting _____
Council Member Harris     voting _____
Council Member Pinon      voting _____


A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-06 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
From:           Robert Pinon
To:             jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov; charris@emigration.utah.gov; jsmolka; dbrems@emigration.utah.gov; Diana Baun
Subject:        Fw: Update on the Noise Issue
Date:           Tuesday, August 19, 2025 1:54:58 PM


Please see forward below.

Get Outlook for iOS

From: Dale Berreth <d.berreth@icloud.com>
Sent: Tuesday, August 19, 2025 1:12:15 PM
To: Roberto Pinon <robertopinon@gmail.com>
Subject: Fwd: Update on the Noise Issue

Robert,
Hope all is well, I’m forwarding an email I received this morning, I’m totally in support of anything we might do to
mitigate our noise & speed problem.
Dale Berreth
Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:


       From: Dale Berreth <d.berreth@icloud.com>
       Date: August 19, 2025 at 1:09:04 PM MDT
       To: David Brems <dbrems@gsbsarchitects.com>
       Subject: Fwd: Update on the Noise Issue


       ﻿FYI
        Sent from my iPhone

       Begin forwarded message:


            From: Deborah Eppstein <deppstein@gmail.com>
            Date: August 19, 2025 at 12:28:13 PM MDT
            To: kent@kenterickson.com
            Cc: Fred Swanson <fbswan32@msn.com>, Kirtly Jones <kirtly.jones@gmail.com>,
            jessiesteed@gmail.com, Dale Berreth <d.berreth@icloud.com>, James Kay
            <jim@jameskay.com>, R Macfarlane <robert.c.macfarlane@gmail.com>, Jeannie Resetarits
            <jean.resetarits@gmail.com>, Gregory Palis <gtpalis@gmail.com>, Beth Sanguinetti
            <els726130@gmail.com>, Mel Halbach <melhalbach@gmail.com>
            Subject: Re: Update on the Noise Issue


            ﻿Kent, that sounds like a great approach. If indeed this device can both quantitate
            decibels adn photograph license place- and then fi we can get the county sheriff to
            agree to issue tickets- it could work!

            One question I have is, how is the noise ordinance written? Eg, at what distance from
            the road are the decibels measured? Perhaps there is no distance specification which
            would be easiest to monitor.

            Thanks for this creative and hopefully productive approach!

            Debby Eppstein

                   On Aug 19, 2025, at 11:06 AM, kent@kenterickson.com wrote:
     Since the last email I received from this group in 2021I have learned some things
     that I thought I would share.

     First, the noise problem is as bad as ever and the sign at the bottom of the canyon
     does precisely nothing.

     There was an article in the Wall Street Journal on August 12th that discussed the
     use of noise cameras (see attachment). These are devices with a microphone
     array that can measure and locate a noise source. A camera photographs the
     license plate and the offender can be sent a citation. It seems to be effective in
     various places around the country. I also found that at least one company will
     provide a free installation of these devices for a share of the ticket revenue. Not-
     A-Loud | Services .

     Assuming that there is indeed a noise ordinance with a defined level of
     disturbance, this might be an excellent way to mitigate the problem. I would be
     interested in the opinion of others and if there is support, I will provide the next
     council meeting with copies of this information. Please forward this to others who
     may be interested/afflicted.

     Let me know,

     Kent Erickson


     <New Noise Cameras Pit Drivers of Fast Cars Against Their Neighbors - WSJ.pdf>


Deborah Eppstein
deppstein@gmail.com
From:            Jennifer Hawkes
To:              Diana Baun
Subject:         Fwd: Emigration Canyon Update
Date:            Tuesday, August 12, 2025 12:26:12 PM


Diana,

Could you include this email in our next meeting as a public comment?  

Thank you,

Jennifer Hawkes
Emigration Canyon


---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <ben@lnepresents.com>
Date: Mon, Aug 4, 2025 at 8:50 AM
Subject: Re: Emigration Canyon Update
To: <jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>


Will there be efforts to actually enforce the pedestrian/cyclist restrictions?

I know the favor seems to lie on the cyclists side as of late, but they’ve been, by and large,
unruly and inconsiderate of existing traffic control.


 Ben Allen
 CMO | LNE | Realine Group


 m. 801.688.8763 | o. 801.419.0858

 LNE Presents | Reggae Rise Up | Realine Group



On Aug 1, 2025 at 9:04 AM -0600, Emigration Canyon City
<jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>, wrote:


                                   Can't see this message? View in browser
        Emigration Canyon Update
          Where History, Nature, and Community Thrive




                        August 4–15
           Microsurfacing Paving Notice

       2025 Pavement Maintenance Project Microsurfacing




 Microsurfacing for the Pavement Maintenance Project will begin
August 4 and may continue through August 15, with work occurring
in 1–3 mile phases from 7 AM to 5 PM. During this time, access to
   driveways and streets will be temporarily restricted while the
  asphalt cures—please plan ahead, as vehicles left in the work
 zone will be towed. Driving or walking on uncured pavement will
                     damage the new surface.




Delays and brief closures are expected. Pilot cars will guide traffic
when safe, and flaggers will manage traffic. One lane of Emigration
   Canyon Road will be closed during the day to accommodate
                       ongoing construction.




   During microsurfacing and curing, pilot cars will guide traffic
through temporary road closures along Emigration Canyon Road.
Please wait in your driveway until a pilot car arrives, and follow all
 traffic signage and crew instructions. Delays of 15 to 30 minutes
     are expected, so plan ahead and allow extra travel time.
      Please visit https://emigration.utah.gov for contractor
      notices, project updates, and the most current schedule, as
      changes may occur throughout the duration of the work.



Thank you for your patience and cooperation during this important
                        improvement project.




If you have any questions or concerns, please call 385-602-7955,
           email residents@americanpave.com, or visit
 www.americanpave.com and click on “Resident Notice” for more
                             information.




           American Pavement Preservation Slurry Seal
                        Resident Video




                Effective August 1, 2025

               Stage 2 Fire Restrictions


This order will apply to all state lands and all unincorporated
private lands within the state of Utah



Stage 2 Restrictions:
   NO OPEN FIRES OF ANY KIND (Compressed or liquid gas
   grills, stoves, and fire pits with a shutoff valve are allowed,
   provided there is proper clearance of flammable materials.)




PLUS all restrictions from Stage 1:




   No open fires except within established public facilities in
   improved campgrounds or picnic areas, or in permanently
   constructed fire pits at private residences with running water
   present.


   No smoking, except inside enclosed vehicles, trailers,
   buildings, developed recreation sites, or areas paved or free of
   dry vegetation.


   No fireworks, tracer ammunition, or any pyrotechnic devices,
   including exploding targets.


   No cutting, welding, or grinding metal in areas of dry
   vegetation.


   No operation of motorcycles, chainsaws, ATVs, or other small
   internal combustion engines without an approved and
   functioning spark arrestor.




                     Active Fire Restrictions
                          Quick Reminder:
       Please remember to log your time and expenses for
   Chipping Day! Tracking this helps us qualify for our Firewise
   Community designation, which supports wildfire prevention
   efforts in Emigration Canyon. Every hour and dollar counts
                  —thank you for doing your part!




                    Log your time and expenses




                 Cross the Line—Safely


          Sharing the Road – Important Safety Reminder
Did you know? Utah law (Utah Code § 41-6a-706.5) allows drivers
to safely cross a double yellow line to give bicyclists at least 3 feet
of clearance—the legal minimum. This small action helps protect
  cyclists while keeping everyone safer on the road. Please be
   patient, pass only when it’s safe, and help make Emigration
         Canyon a safer place for drivers and riders alike.




                            Road Respect




     Emigratoon Canyon
            City                     www.emigration.utah.gov
      p. 385-240-1400
                      This email was sent from this site.
If you no longer wish to receive this email, change your email preferences here.
From:            Jennifer Hawkes
To:              Diana Baun
Cc:              cameron
Subject:         Fwd: Lane striping in Emigration Canyon follow up
Date:            Monday, August 18, 2025 4:54:24 PM


Diana,

Please add this as public comment and read in our Aug Meeting.

Thank you,

Jennifer Hawkes
Emigration Canyon


---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Dave Iltis <dave@cyclingutah.com>
Date: Mon, Aug 18, 2025 at 1:00 PM
Subject: Re: Lane striping in Emigration Canyon follow up
To: <jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>


Jennifer,
It looks like the messed up the striping in various places. There are many areas with 12’ lanes.
The striping is especially bad above the Sun and Moon to the Pinecrest turnoff.

I rode it on Saturday. Other cyclists had the same comments. MSD should redo areas where
they messed up.

Can you let me know that you received this?


Thanks,
Dave Iltis
Cycling Utah & Cycling West
801-574-3413 cell
https://cyclingwest.com




       On Aug 13, 2025, at 1:06 PM, Dave Iltis <dave@cyclingutah.com> wrote:

       Below is the editorial I wrote in 2020 (that I sent to you then) prior to the
       compromise of 11’ lanes for reference.

       Thanks,
       Dave Iltis
       Cycling Utah & Cycling West
801-574-3413
http://cyclingwest.com



Dear Mayor Smolka and the Emigration Project Team,

I’m writing to ask that you please consider narrowing the vehicle travel lanes to
10’ wide in order to create wider shoulders and thus more room for cyclists and
pedestrians/runners. There are a multitude of other reasons to do this, which we
spell out here in our editorial.

Also, I do hope that someone from the Team will be attending the Salt Lake
County Bicycle Advisory Committee meeting today at 5:30 pm.

See: http://www.cyclingutah.com/advocacy/road-advocacy/editorial-emigration-
canyon-road-design-changes-needed-for-safer-cycling-and-walking/

Editorial: Emigration Canyon Road Design Changes Needed for Safer
Cycling and Walking
By Dave Iltis - July 7, 2020
10 Foot Travel Lanes Would be Safer For Cyclists, Pedestrians, Wildlife, and
Motorists

July 7, 2020 – Emigration Canyon in Salt Lake County, Utah is currently
being reconstructed from Donner Monument to SR 65 (the road to East Canyon).
While cyclists have been concerned about the short term lack of access to the
canyon, the problems with the roadway design have far greater long term
consequences for cyclists' safety.

The current plan is to keep the road striping the same as it is now, with mostly 12′
wide travel lanes from the Salt Lake County line to approximately the Fire
Station, 11′ foot lanes from there to the Pinecrest turnoff, and 12′ lanes to Little
Mountain Summit, and finally 11′ lanes from the summit to SR 65.

More on the striping plan is below, this from the Emigration Project Team:

Concerning the new striping and lane widths, here is the planned layout.
• From the County line to the Fire Station in the eastbound (uphill) direction there
will be a five (5) foot bike lane. Twelve (12) foot travel lane to Skycrest. Eleven
(11) foot travel lane from Skycrest to the Fire Station.
• From the County line to the Fire Station in the westbound (downhill) direction it
will remain “Share the Road”. Twelve (12) foot travel lane.
• Between the Fire Station and Pinecrest it will continue to be “Share the Road”
because there is insufficient room through that section to strip for bike lanes.
Eleven (11) foot travel lanes in both directions.
• Between Pinecrest and the Summit there will be five (5) foot bike lanes on both
sides of the road. Twelve (12) foot travel lanes in both directions.
• From the Summit to SR-65 once again it will be “Share the Road” because of
how narrow the road is. Eleven (11) foot travel lanes in both directions.
We very much wanted to expand the bike lanes, but the project simply was not
funded to be able to add the width necessary to support additional bike lanes.
Travel lanes were only adjusted where necessary to provide five (5) foot bike
lanes.

Why are lane widths important? Road design, and in particular lane widths,
impact the speed at which motorists feel comfortable driving. According to Jeff
Speck's Walkable Cities Rules, 12′ lanes have a design speed of 70 miles per
hour, while 10′ lanes have a design speed of 45 miles per hour. The speed limit in
Emigration is 40 mph. So, why are 12′ lanes specified?

We asked this question of the project engineers, and they indicated that the
leadership of Emigration Township did not want this. We are unclear on the
reasoning here.

The new Township encompasses one of the most beautiful areas in Salt Lake
City, where hundreds of cyclists and tourists ride and sight see. The canyon is also
the site of Brigham Young's Last Camp, prior to declaring “This is the place!” in
the Latter Day Saints journey west.

According to Strava data, it is likely the 4th most popular recreational bike route
in the country, and the most popular in Utah.

In the Salt Lake City section near the mouth of the canyon, there are adequate
bike lanes, although we would like to see narrower travel lanes here, and wider
bike lanes, this section is not part of the reconstruction. We do plan on asking Salt
Lake City about this.

In the Salt Lake County section, there are really no true bike lanes, but rather just
wider shoulders. Riding up the canyon, having adequate room is paramount to
cyclists' safety as the speed differential between cyclists and cars is much higher.
10′ lanes would provide in some sections 1 to 2 more feet of space to ride.
Additionally, this provides more room for pedestrians. We would think that one of
the desires of canyon residents is to be able to walk along the road safely, with
enough room to not get buzzed by car traffic.

In the downhill direction, there are some parts of the canyon where cyclists can
reach 30-35 miles per hour, and can easily take the lane. However, there are many
sections in the canyon where cyclists cruise along at lower speeds, and generally
will want to ride in the shoulder / ‘bike lane'.

A wider shoulder and narrower travel lane would give more room for cyclists to
ride, and would lower conflict between motorists and cyclists.

Additionally, in a conversation with one of the Unified Police Department officers
that patrol the canyon, they stated to us that motorists in speeding vehicles are one
of the main issues that they deal with. Narrower travel lanes by design reduce
motorist speeds. This is better on many levels. It would reduce enforcement
issues. Slower motorist speeds would reduce the speed differential between cars
and cyclists, thus reducing conflict. And, slower motorist speeds would reduce
crashes with wildlife.

We would offer specific recommendations as to where to go to 10′ travel lanes,
but despite several requests, Salt Lake County would not respond to requests to
share the striping plan with us. Additionally, as far as we are aware, no cyclists
were contacted for feedback on the current plan.

The 2015 Emigration Canyon Roadway Improvement Committee study (ECRIC
study) recommends, “Meet or exceed AASHTO standards regarding road
widths, bike lanes and road shoulders.” But, as far as we can tell, the study is
silent on vehicle travel lane widths. The only way to gain more width for bike
lanes and road shoulders without widening the road (which is difficult because of
cost) is to narrow the travel lanes.

The study contains a number of other recommendations. We are not able at this
time to tell which of those will be implemented.

All in all, the striping plan in Emigration needs to be reevaluated as soon as
possible and needs to take in to consideration modern road design standards that
will result in safer conditions for all canyon users and residents.
From:              Jennifer Hawkes
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                cameron
Subject:           Fwd: Road mirror sealing disaster
Date:              Monday, August 18, 2025 4:49:25 PM


Diana,

Please provide as a public comment to be read at our next meeting.

Thank you,

Jennifer Hawkes
Emigration Canyon

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: George Croft <croftco@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Aug 18, 2025 at 1:57 PM
Subject: Road mirror sealing disaster
To: <jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>


Greeting and thank you to the mayor and council members of Emigration Canyon Township for all of
you’re efforts as well as to all the residents and fellow users of your area for presenting and making
available the once almost perfect travel ways through your community and township. The road has been
truly world class that I use most every day while solo on my bike or by co-riding up to Ruths Diner as an
extended family of often 20 or more young and old family members. I am heart sick that the recently
“completed" resurfacing of Emigration Canyon has left the road as well as the shoulders unsafe for bikers,
pedestrians and cars traveling either up and down at any speed. It is terrible that the micro paving has turned
the canyon from a world class surface to a shoddy, unpredictable and very unsafe surface from top to
bottom. I'm totally disappointed in the quality of the job. I fear for my life and that of other canyon users
trying to navigate the shoulders and bike lanes with their uneven and loose surface debris even at slow
speeds all the while trying to not get pelted with asphalt pebbles being flipped onto me by passing cars. I
had hoped this micro surfacing was going to be just an undercoat to apply better asphalt on top of but the
township website shows the construction timeline to be completed. Such a shame really.
Thank you for hearing my comments.
Georger Croft
