of the syrup collection container which appears to be empty and is not within the boundaries
of the property.
 A wildfire will move uphill in the Freeze Creek Drainage, toward Red Butte Canyon. Utah
 Forestry, Fire & State Lands is rating wildfire risk in Emigration Canyon as “High” to “Very
 High”.

--[if !supportLists]-->9.     <!--[endif]-->The Red Butte Canyon Protected Reserve is next to the
  upper Freeze Creek Drainage. The US Forest Service is responsible for this restricted access
  Canyon for scientific research and education. The Leick hobby farm would potentially disturb
  this pristine research area.

 I request that you consider the above points and deny the Leick request for an Agricultural
 Protection Area.

 Thank you,

 Bruce Nakashima

 Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:               TODD C GREY
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Agricultural protection zone application
Date:               Monday, September 22, 2025 9:55:09 AM




[You don't often get email from                                Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

From what I have seen, an agricultural protection zone can’t be established where no agricultural activity already
exists. Does this proposal serve any real purpose other than trying to skirt already existing regulations prohibiting
Mr. Leick from running a road to his locked parcel or using potential litigation to force capitulation by those who
oppose his plan? Sent from my iPad
From:           Ryan Leick
To:             Diana Baun
Subject:        Agriculture Protection Area (APA) for Parcel 10-20-400-002
Date:           Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:03:55 AM
Attachments:    APA Public Comment Leick - 20250925.pdf


Hi Diana,

I have attached my public comment in response to the notice of public hearing regarding the
Agricultural Protection Area (APA) application for Parcel 10-20-400-002 (OAM2025-
001470). I will also upload the attached comment to supplement the application in MSD's
CityWorks portal.

Thanks,

   -Ryan
From:               Howard Parker
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Agriculture protection area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 11:14:15 AM




[You don't often get email from                              Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Ms. Baum,
I am writing to register my objection to Mr. Ryan Lick’s petition to create an agricultural protection area in the
Freeze Creek area of Emigration canyon. There would appear to be several adverse consequences to granting this
request. Turning a relative pristine wilderness area into a farm would be ecologically disruptive—disturbing existing
foraging a movement patterns of wildlife, introducing non-native species, introducing the problem of waste
management of domestic livestock, potentially introducing the very serious problem of pesticide introduction,
compromising local water supplies, and creating the problem of livestock-predator interaction. At a time when the
whole world is waking up to the necessity of protecting existing ecosystems, they is a regressive action.
In addition, it strikes me a as a seriously misbegotten, Quixotic idea. To the best of my knowledge there is no
farming going on anywhere in any of the Wasatch Front canyons—for good reason; the soil is poor, water is scarce,
the terrain is not particularly conducive to farming and the growing season is very short. This strikes me as a vanity
project, with no public benefit and the potential for serious harm to wildlife habitat, biodiversity and water quality.
Thank you for soliciting comments.
Sincerely
Howard B. Parker
I live in Emigration Oaks and recreate often in Freeze Canyon. I urge the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission and
Council to dismiss this Application for an APA.

The Application is a sham, a fraud, and a pretext in his quest to obtain what he has planned since he purchased the parcel:
a road linking a planned dwelling on the parcel to the road system in Emigration Canyon.

The Legislature, in enacting Chapter 41 of Title 17 in the Utah Code, provided an option for political subdivisions, such as
Emigration Canyon, to establish protection areas for agriculture, industry, or mining. The legislation does not require
creation of an APA at the request of an applicant, nor does it provide much guidance regarding what issues need to be
considered: the decision rests entirely with the discretion of the Emigration Canyon city council.

Indeed, this Application stands on its head the purpose of an APA: the APA statute was enacted to protect farmers from
complaints of residents who had “moved to the nuisance”--those in new homes near existing farms. In this case, the new
nuisance is proposed near existing homes.

The Applicant's present or planned activities are not permitted under Emigration Canyon's zoning ordinance.

The Applicant has no ability to engage in viable commercial agriculture with a reasonable expectation of a profit--as the
APA statute requires.

Planned activities increase the risk of wildfire.

I. The activities (present and planned) violate Emigration Canyon's Zoning Code

a. code violation

The present,and planned, agricultural activities on the parcel are not permitted by the Emigration Canyon zoning
ordinance. As the Application states, the Emigration Canyon FR-20 ordinance (ECC 19.12.020) includes Agriculture as a
permitted use. However, “Agriculture” as defined in ECC 19.04.020 does not include keeping of livestock. And the Applicant
admits that his present use includes livestock foraging (Exhibits p.134). His plans also include keeping fowl, swine, goats,
and kine on the parcel (Exhibits, p.92). None of this animal husbandry is permitted pursuant to the present zoning
ordinance and the Application provides no discussion regarding how his present and planned “keeping or raising domestic
animals or fowl”comports with the ordinance.

b. Prior Nonconforming Use

Nor are his beekeeping activities a prior nonconforming use. The FR-20 ordinance was adopted from the previous Salt Lake
County code by Ordinance 18-06-02 in June 2018--well before the Applicant purchased the parcel in 2020.

Although the Application claims that the parcel was historically used for sheep grazing (an agricultural use), the parcel has
not been used for sheep grazing (or any other agricultural use) for many decades. Thus, any agricultural use has been
abandoned and any present or future activities at the site must conform to present ordinances.

         ECC 19.88.080 - Nonconforming use of land.
         The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued provided that
         no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
         property, and provided that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed
         for a period of one year or more, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provision of this
         title. Ordinance 18-06-02, June 28, 2018. (emphasis supplied)

II. The Application does not demonstrate any possibility of commercial success
a. Requirement for approval of an APA

The activities described in the Proposal do not meet the requirements of the Utah statute regarding APAs.

Utah Code allows creation of an APA only if agricultural production is for commercial purposes and the land is devoted to
the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit. UCA 17-41-101.

b. Lack of reasonable expectation of profit

The Proposal does not describe any profitable commercial production of agricultural products. It omits information
regarding expected costs or revenues from the production and sale of honey, beeswax, maple syrup, and other products to
be produced on the parcel. This is not a commercial venture. Rather, it is a proposed hobby farm.

The parcel is landlocked, with no access to a road for the contemplated construction of infrastructure and activities
following construction. Materials and equipment for the contemplated construction will need to be transported, as was
the mechanical equipment presently on the parcel, via helicopter. Realizing that he has no access to the parcel, the
Applicant recently initiated legal action against Emigration Canyon and nearby landowners to allow construction of an
access road to the parcel.

The extensive construction of structures contemplated by the Proposal includes 4256 square feet of building pads--
presumably concrete. The Applicant does not have road access to the site to bring in this concrete and other building
materials. These structures can not be constructed and the endeavor have a "reasonable expectation of profit," especially
if labor and materiel need to be ferried in and out via helicopter.

1. Maple syrup production

Anyone walking the trail through the parcel can observe the Applicant's apparatus for collection of bigtooth maple sap.
The Application claims (Exhibit 7, p. 65 ff.) collection of 137.5 gallons of bigtooth maple sap from 25 trees in early 2025,
using the (presumably free) labor of USU students, and sold at retail for hard cider. The Application omits the quantity of
maple syrup produced, but 137 gallons of sap, after energy-intensive boiling or other treatment to remove most of its
water, might produce as much as 2-4 gallons of maple syrup. (https://extension.usu.edu/forestry/publications/utah-forest-
newsletter/maple-tapping)

According to Utah State University extension service, Utah maple tree trunks need to be 10 to 20 inches in diameter in
order to support tapping for syrup and 98% of the water must be evaporated to make syrup.

        https://extension.usu.edu/forestry/publications/utah-forest-facts/045-maple-tapping-utah;
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HhOhwEoCST4

The Application includes no estimate of the number of maple trees with trunk diameters of 10" or greater on the parcel
and how much sap he can expect to retrieve from each tree each year at what cost to produce how much revenue.

The Application does not mention any revenues actually received from sale of this maple syrup. It includes no business
plan, or any estimate of future revenues, fixed costs of required infrastructure, or variable costs of production (e.g.,
processing, packaging, labeling, storage, labor, promotion, distribution, taxes). Nor does he share the costs of tapping
trees, or of sterilizing tubing and collection vessels to prevent growth of yeasts and molds. Nor has the Applicant shared
revenues and expenses to date. Indeed, the Application admits that all the present and contemplated agricultural
production is experimental. (Exhibits p. 70) The Emigration Canyon council is left to its own common sense to make a
judgment in the absence of this data. Clearly, these maple sap operations are not commercially viable with a reasonable
expectation of a profit.


2.      Beekeeping

The Applicant claims to keep "small scale" seasonal beehives to support pollination services and honey products. He
mentions no revenue from sales of honey or wax. While honey bees work without wages, they require some care, and
planned seasonal relocation of hives must entail some cost. Since there is no road access to the parcel, seasonal location
must be via helicopter. As for "pollination services" from the bees, there are no commercial orchards or other agricultural
production proximal to the parcel that would benefit from such services and from which the Applicant could obtain more
revenue. The Applicant leaves Emigration Canyon Council in the dark to make its own conclusions as to whether his apiary
can be profitable. Besides violating the Emigration Canyon zoning code (as mentioned above), this beekeeping has no
reasonable possibility of being profitable--at present or in the future.

3.       Native fruits

Again, the Application includes no data concerning how much (gallons? hands full?) native fruit has been foraged from the
parcel, how much time was required for this harvest, or revenues obtained. Many residents of Emigration Canyon forage
for berries in season. Getting a few berries or a hand full can provide an excuse to rest while on a hike. A greater quantity
requires some effort. The Application doesn't suggest that the berry bushes will be planted and cultivated such that
harvesting berries in commercial quantities will be possible. Once again, Emigration Canyon Council is left to its own
judgment as to whether this activity is commercially viable with a reasonable expectation of a profit.

4.       Other fruits

The Application mentions (p.67) "experiments" with exotic fruits not native to the Wasatch (persimmons, paw paw,
medlar, kiwi, etc). No data is included regarding the results of these experiments or any expected revenues if these
experiments were successful. In the absence of such data, we can assume that the experiments did not point the way to
commercial success.

5. Other agricultural activities

Exhibit 8 (pp. 73-123) describes a bucolic "agroforestry," a supposed low-labor method of agricultural production in a
forest, but includes little information specific to success elsewhere or how this agricultural practice would be executed in
Freeze Canyon. According to this exhibit, agroforestry allows leaving "energy-intensive maintenance (seeding, planting,
weeding, fertilizing, watering) to plant, insect, and animal allies [and] frees up time for additional harvesting, processing,
and resting." (Exhibits p.81) In other words, all the successful farmer needs to do is harvest, process, and rest--while
plants, insects, and animals do all the farm work. The Application fails to specify the tasks that will be performed by these
plant, insect, and animal "allies," or how they will be trained not to compete with desirable plants for scarce resources or
consume the potential harvest. And the desirable plants won't produce as well in the forest as in the field: "Integrating a
food-bearing plant into a polyculture may decrease its food yield due to competition with other plants..."

Continuing, "[p]rofit is obviously important but can be difficult to estimate due to many factors..."

The Application does not contemplate planting immediately, and reveals that "[v]igorous and persistent weeds exist on the
site, so patiently taking multiple years to eliminate the weeds prior to planting will be necessary... ." Anyone who has
removed weeds from ground in Emigration Canyon has learned that desirable plants must be planted immediately, or
weeds will return.

This nonsense strains the credulity of anyone who has ever worked a farm. Unless the Applicant can provide examples of
this Edenic farming practice being commercially viable in a location with growing conditions similar to those in the
Wasatch, Emigration Canyon should dismiss the Application.

Perhaps jarring to the reader after this promise of restful contemplation of free labor from plants, insects, and animals, the
agroforestry farmer must anticipate using brush hogs, tractors, winches, chain saws and other tools (p.105) and frequent
mowing and pruning (p.114). How is the cost of these tools considered when estimating the profits from this enterprise?

The Proposal contemplates using poultry, pigs, goats, and cattle to "prepare the land for permanent plantings." (pp.92,
105) These animals are to graze in movable pens, "virtual" fences, or electric mesh. Goats, especially, are notorious escape
artists. The Application does not mention the need to (or cost of) protecting these domestic animals from predation by the
native animals onsite or nearby (a task of which last century's sheep herders in Emigration Canyon were keenly aware).
Does he contemplate using firearms? And none of these activities are permitted in a Forest and Recreation zone.
Downstream users of water from Freeze Creek—including users of Emigration Creek--can expect increased pollution from
all these practices at the water's source. Setting aside the incompatibility with the zoning code, how much will these
animals cost and what is their effect on the Applicant's bottom line?

The Applicant disclaims any goal of making a profit from commercial agriculture: "The goal of Freeze Creek Forest is to
create a living food forest garden for the public to enjoy and understand the role of silviculture in watershed conservation
and carbon sequestration while advancing high-altitude, semi-arid agroforestry practices." p.83

Nevertheless, managing the forest will be a lot of work: "Achieving the many goals of an edible agroforestry system
requires a high input of energy. This energy can come from our labor and a declining supply of fossil fuels or we can place a
majority of the burden onto Mother Nature's strong shoulders." p.84

Nowhere does the proposal address how this needed energy will be outsourced to Mother Nature. However, the proposal
discusses many activities that can't be so outsourced, e.g., tree planting, regular thinning and pruning of trees, weed
suppression, mechanically severing tree roots to decrease competition with annual crops, etc. (p.100)

This concept of a plan often contradicts itself. Page 99 suggests white clover as a ground cover, while page 88 states that
voles prefer to eat white clover when they're not eating the bark of fruit trees, so white clover won't be planted.

As another example of neglecting the effort required to successfully farm, the Application (p.110) proposes inoculating
downed tree trunks with mushrooms, but admits that "Once fruiting begins, constant vigilance and daily harvest may be
necessary to ensure freedom from rodent damage." Just how does the Applicant propose 24-hour, 7-day constant vigilance
to prevent rodent damage to his fungus crop?


III. The Application is a mere pretext for construction of a recreational cabin

p.22    Applicant enjoys the property as recreation destination enabling family time together, and not as a commercial
enterprise. This conflicts with statements regarding present agricultural production elsewhere in the Application. In
other words, this is—-at best—-a hobby farm.

The site plan attached as Exhibit 9 reveals the true purpose of this sham Application: a pretended agricultural operation
that is a mask for a planned recreational dwelling. The costs of driveway construction alone would doom any possibility of
a profit from beekeeping, sap collection, or other pursuits.

The site plan includes extensive structures and a 12-foot-wide gravel driveway (wider, with shoulders), but the Application
doesn't mention the costs of these improvements, nor their effect on the profitability of this supposed commercial
agriculture venture.

The driveway extends over 1200 feet from the southern boundary of the property and ends at an "Oak Plateau" near the
property's western boundary. The driveway has a slope greater than 18% for much of its length. Likely, this steep
slopealone dooms any FCOZ approval.

A couple of the planned structures, a bee house and a 40' X 80' "west homestead barn" are located near the terminus of
this driveway. However, a "conceptual" septic field is also located on this Oak Plateau. The proposal doesn't disclose a
reason that a septic field is required for either a barn or a bee house. However, as every Emigration Canyon resident
knows, a septic field is required for a dwelling.

The Application nowhere mentions any connection between the driveway and any public highway. Perhaps this is because
the Applicant has been told, repeatedly for several years, that he will not receive permission to access his property from
land owned by Emigration Oaks. Nor has Salt Lake City, the owner of property abutting the parcel's southern boundary,
acceded to the Applicant's request to cross its land.

IV. The Application presents an increased risk of wildfire.
The Parcel lies within an area prone to wildfire, and any fire that ignites onsite would immediately threaten homes
throughout Emigration Canyon. For example, the “Affleck Park” wildfire in 1988 burned about 90% of Freeze Canyon.
Construction and maintenance activities at the site pose a substantial risk of igniting a wildfire. The Proposal contemplates
the practice of making “biochar” to return the carbon contained in unwanted wood to the soil. Biochar production consists
of igniting woody material in an atmosphere with limited oxygen, thus producing a product similar to charcoal.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biochar Any escape from this apparatus would be virtually certain to start a fire in the
surrounding forest, and the remote location of the site would delay suppression efforts. The risk is too great for any
supposed reward from this method of clearing downed logs and other forest debris from the site. The Applicant has
already demonstrated a cavalier attitude towards wildfire safety by using an open 55-gallon drum as a “burn barrel” on the
property for some of his unwanted wood.

For any of the above reasons, and certainly for all of them together, the Planning Commission should recommend that the
Emigration Canyon Council deny the Application.
Ryan Leick is sighting historical information to support his claims but may be misrepresenting all
or part of his facts. He has not used a very neighborly approach to gain access to the beautiful
area we call Emigration Canyon, that the Native people called Iee-Ne-Ia-Weah,1 possibly
meaning “people of the setting sun”, long before white imperialists came to the area.

At least as far back as 2021, before the newest approach, application for APA, Dr. Leick has
been told ‘NO’ by a succession of land owners and overseeing governmental bodies and yet he
continues to try to bluff and bully his way to get what he wants. He has no approval for use of
existing private roads and no basis for suggesting the private roads should be made public.
Despite claims in his application, he does not have a frontage on any road and so does not have
a “lot of record”. He does not currently have approval for agricultural activity and so has no
basis to request an Agricultural Protection Area (APA).

Approval of an APA would keep city, towns or county from enacted or enforcing laws to restrict
any activity the landowner chooses. There can be no change in zoning unless the landowner
approves. An APA provides a defense against legal claims by abutting property owners and
prevents claims of nuisance. Dr. Leick is trying to keep us from complaining before he has
anything more than helicopter traffic for us to complain about. It seems that he has
helicoptered in an ATV and other equipment for his improvement processes before receiving
any approval for those processes.

He claims to need an APA to protect ongoing agricultural activity and preserve viability of
agriculture. This assumes there is already agricultural activity approved in the area. There is no
such approval as the land in question is currently not zoned for agriculture. He is currently
despoiling the native area and possibly endangering our fragile watershed in Emigration
Canyon.


Sugar production from maple syrup is one of the suggested activities in Dr. Leick’s proposal.
There are not enough sugar maples in the whole of the canyon to produce a gallon of maple
syrup. If in fact Dr Leick is planting maple trees for harvesting sap, he is breaking the law as his
landlocked property is zoned for “Forestry and Recreation” not agriculture.

He sites historical use including sheep grazing. Sheep grazing gutted the vegetation and fouled
the creek. If Dr. Leick studied his history more carefully he might recognize that while this
canyon has been many things over the past thousand years or so, nothing lasts forever,
certainly not usage. The area used to be popular for beaver hunters, but thankfully, not being
done anymore. The first permanent non-native residents of the canyon built a toll road, and
perhaps that could be a useful addition to the access Dr. Leick wishes.

Dr. Leick uses legalese and subterfuge to try and worm into the area and do something as yet
not well defined in any of his plans. The plans are a hodge-podge of ideas that have no

1
    The History of Emigration Canyon, Gateway to Salt Lake Valley, J. Carlstrom, C. Furse
coherence and don’t form any sort of logical agricultural process. There is a bit of apiary talk,
and by the way there must be more than a couple of hives to be called an apiary. He talks about

This application is made in good faith to protect on going agricultural activity. By Utah Code
"Agriculture production means production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock, and
livestock products.” Is Dr. Leick currently growing and selling agricultural products? If not, he
again has no basis for an APA. If his is, he is in violation of zoning restrictions.

This Application for Agricultural Protection Area, is merely the latest attempt by Dr. Leick to
sidestep law, history, and ruin our beautiful landscape, while trying to wear down resistance
and build a case for his poorly conceived use of 40 acres of landlocked, forest. This should not
be approved under any circumstances.
25SEPT2025

To Whom It May Concern:

We are writing to oppose the designation of an Agricultural Protection Area for:
File: OAM2025-001470

Applicant: Ryan Leick

Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.

Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1 North,

Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian.

Underlying Zone: FR-20



We have been continuous, full-time residents of Emigration Canyon since 2007 and own
property there. Our principal concern is that the protection that this area would provide will
materially impact the safety and health of Emigration Canyon and its residents by
negatively impacting the watershed and ﬁre safety of the canyon. As agricultural property
owners in another state, we also understand well the various uses that agricultural property
can take. These concerns are magniﬁed in our situation where potential changes under the
banner of “agricultural use” would be occurring in a vital watershed.

We are also concerned about the impact on local wildlife with additional development and
disruption taking place in an area that enjoys an abundance of animals who already are
dealing with proximity to development and hunting.

Please deny this request.



Alan and Paige Stotts



Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
   Attachment 1
Invoice and Redacted Check
Attachment 2
Agritourism Signage
                                                                         Edwin C. Barnes




                                    September 24, 2025


Emigration Canyon City Council
c/o Diana Baun, City Recorder
PO Box 14770
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-7700

Via email: dbaun@msd.utah.gov

       Re: File OAM2025-001470 Proposal to Create an Agricultural Protection Area
       Covering Parcel 10-20-400-002
Dear Council Members,
The Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, Inc. (EOPOA) strenuously objects to
the August 11, 2025, Application filed by Ryan Leick who requests designation of his
land in Freeze Creek as a protected Agricultural Protection Area (APA), and submits
these comments in opposition to the Application. EOPOA members occupy
approximately 200 homes adjacent to the Freeze Creek drainage, downslope from the Mr.
Leick’s landlocked parcel (the Property) who, with others in Emigration Canyon, would
be adversely impacted by Mr. Leick’s plans.
The Application is a glossy but superficial presentation that is based in generalities,
contradictions, and descriptions of what appear to be admissions of unlawful conduct.
The Application is flawed and defective in numerous areas, each of which looked at
singly is a ground to deny the Application but together mandate its rejection by the
Emigration Canyon City Council. The Property is simply not appropriate for APA
protection as a matter of law, policy, or practicality as detailed below.
              AGRICULTURAL AREA PROTECTION STANDARDS
An Agricultural Protection Area may be created by the legislative body of a city to
protect lands historically “devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a
reasonable expectation of profit”. Utah Code Section 17-41-101(10). It applies only to
commercial ventures, not family or hobby farms. Once approved, the lands in the APA
are then insulated against later zoning changes, land use designations, nuisance or other
regulations that might limit continuation of the historic agricultural activities, including a
limitation on the exercise of the power of eminent domain. Utah Code Sections 17-41-
402, -403, -405. In evaluating an APA proposal, the legislative body must consider


                ONE UTAH CENTER • 201 SOUTH MAIN STREET, SUITE 2200
                 SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84111-2216 •TEL & FAX (801) 322-2516
whether the land is currently being used for historic agricultural use, whether it is zoned
for such use, whether the land is viable for agricultural production, and the nature and
extent of existing and proposed farm improvements. Utah Code Section 17-41-305. The
Application does not meet these requirements.
The only evidence of prior agricultural use presented by Mr. Leick is an affidavit stating
that the Property was historically used for the summer grazing of sheep. Application,
Exhibit 6. He candidly admits, however, that “The property has had no other use since
that time” and that sheep grazing is no longer a permitted use. Application, p. 1; Exhibit
3, p.4. Any argument for entitlement to continue the nonconforming use of grazing
lapsed many years ago by non-use and cannot now be extended or expanded. Emigration
Canyon Code (ECC) 19.88.080. Though he admits that grazing is not a permitted use,
Mr. Leick contradicts himself by stating that the property is currently used for “livestock
forage”. Application, Exhibit 10 “Proposed Use”. And, though clearly not permitted by
current zoning, he proposes to use pigs, goats, sheep, cattle, guinea fowl, turkeys, quail,
and geese in furtherance of his operations. Application, Exhibit 8, p. 19.
Having admitted that agricultural use of the Property ceased years ago and was of a type
that is no longer permitted, Mr. Leick obviously hopes that the City Council will ignore
the fact that his recent activities are not historic, and are the result, as he himself
describes them, of activities that are unlawful, including development and other activities
that are contrary to current land use restrictions and without the required permits,
including the unauthorized diversion and use of water, and unlawful trespass over lands
belonging to others.
To support the Application, Mr. Leick cites ECC 19.12.020.B which lists Agriculture as a
Permitted Use in FR zones, but he ignores the fact that the term Agriculture is defined
therein not to include “any agriculture industry or business”. ECC 19.04.020.
(Indeed, the frequent references in the Application to combustive biochar manufacture
and expansive fruit production and handling are the types of industrial uses that are
expressly excluded from the code’s definition of agriculture.) As noted above, APA
protection is available only to agriculture conducted “with a reasonable expectation of
profit.” Utah Code Section 17-41-101(10). That he intends to operate the property as a
profit-making business is clear from the Application, though he concedes he cannot
predict any level of profitability. Exhibit 8, p. 9. Thus, without a reasonable expectation
of profit, his current and proposed business uses are not permitted under ECC
19.12.020.B. Even if, for argument’s sake, the proposed uses could be considered to be
permitted uses, that code section still subjects the land to applicable standards and
limitations including the need to have applied for and received approval under the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone before beginning work. He did not do so.

Mr. Leick’s described operations and expansion plans are activities that are contrary to
the Values and Recommendations expressed in the Emigration Canyon General Plan.



                                                                                 2|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
They are not allowed in this part of Emigration Canyon. Approval of the Application
granting the preemptive protections inherent in APA status would effectively sanction
current unlawful uses of the Property and deprive Emigration Canyon City of the ability
to properly regulate future current and future uses of the Property through established
zoning and permit processes. See Utah Code Section 17-41-402. His plans to convert
this arid slope into a miniature Imperial Valley are inappropriate and should not be
countenanced.
            MR. LEICK HAS NO RIGHT OF ACCESS THROUGH EOPOA
Mr. Leick was informed before he purchased the Property that it is landlocked and, in
particular, that he had no right to access it across or through property owned by EOPOA
and or Salt Lake City. It is not clear from the Application how he plans to access,
improve and maintain the Property going forward. The only description of access in the
Application is in Exhibit 3, p. 3, where it states: “The property can be reached by foot or
mountain bike via on 1.0-mile single track trail originating at a parking lot administered
by the Emigration Improvement District (EID) along Pine Creek Canyon Road.” That is
not a helpful reference, since EOPOA is unaware of a road by that name, and Mr. Leick’s
website, https://freezecreek.org/home/present public access/ describes that trail as being
three miles long. It is doubtful that the improvements he describes to date could have all
been made utilizing only that access or that he intends to use that three-mile trail to
support the extensive construction and operations he describes.
Mr. Leick has previously trespassed through EOPOA property to access the Property, and
it appears that his plans contemplate future Property access through two miles of EOPOA
private roads, a half mile of EID’s graded private easement, and about another half mile
of land owned by Salt Lake City. He does not have the right to cross any of those
properties.1
Mr. Leick attempts to end-run the fact that he does not have permission from EOPOA,
EID, and Salt Lake City to cross their lands by citing a decision by an administrative

1
 Once he arrives at the Property, and likely before that on lands owned by others, he describes
plans to create a twelve-foot-wide road with significant additional width for cuts and shoulders,
by removing topsoil and organics from the site by truck and importing many truckloads of
granular material and road base. It appears that he plans to trespass on the EOPOA roads,
improve the access across the EID easement and pioneer a road across Salt Lake City property to
a similar standard to create a 12-foot-wide road for two-way traffic by heavy trucks for facility
construction and operations, along with vehicular traffic for workers, students, and customers. Of
additional concern is the fact that the finished “driveway” is projected to have grades in excess of
18%, presenting dangerous, if not impossible, challenges for fire protection and winter access.
Application, Exhibit 9, pages 124-130 “Site Improvements.” In addition to the trespass concerns,
EOPOA believes that the proposed road width and grade do not comply with current ECC codes
and could not be permitted.



                                                                                        3|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
hearing officer. Application, Exhibit 10, p. 1. He reads far too much into that decision,
which simply found that the Property is a lot of record. This was not a ruling by a court
of general jurisdiction. EOPOA and Salt Lake City were not parties to and are not bound
by that decision. More importantly, that decision did not, and could not have, confirmed
ownership of a road or other right-of-way across EOPOA and Salt Lake City lands.
Indeed, the hearing officer volunteered, “It is my opinion that the parcel is not adjacent to
a “street” as defined by relevant ordinances”, and rather based his decision on the fact
that the parcel appeared to have been accessible by some right-of-way at the time of the
1888 patent. September 9, 2024, Amended Land Use Hearing Decision, p. 2. The
hearing officer also confirmed at page 3 that “This decision does not grant any other
approval for the use or development of this “lot of record”, including access rights.”
(EOPOA’s emphasis.)
Mr. Leick acknowledged the infirmity of his access claim by his recent filing of a lawsuit
in the Third District Court against Emigration Canyon City, Salt Lake City, and EOPOA,
Case Number 250906345, asking the Court to declare that he has a right of access across
miles of their private roads and lands to get to the Property. The lawsuit is in its very
early stages, and it would be improper to grant the Application, or, indeed, any permits
for any of the improvements and facilities he describes, or licenses for their operation,
until and unless the trial and appellate courts of the State of Utah have entered a final
judgment declaring that Mr. Leick has the right to cross and improve the defendants’
property.
                  WATER RIGHTS AND WATER QUALITY IMPACTS
Mr. Leick describes three water sources on the Property, implying that he may have used
those sources to support his current operations, though he candidly admits that “Water
rights are not assigned to the Freeze Creek property ownership.” Application, Exhibit 3,
p.9 Water. In Utah, all water belongs to the state. Utah Code Section 73-1-1. It is
unlawful to use water for a specific use, at a place, in an amount, or at a time other than
that for which it has been properly appropriated. New appropriations are not available in
the area since all of the waters in the Great Salt Lake Drainage are already fully
appropriated.
The Application also predicts a future “septic tank drain field.” Application, Exhibit 10,
p. 6. Septic and other wastewater facilities are not, or should not, be allowed up-gradient
from the EID well that EOPOA and much of Emigration Canyon rely upon for culinary
water. EOPOA does not understand why a septic system would even be conceptualized
except as a pretext for a future dwelling on the Property. (This is already a real concern:
Last week EOPOA informally tested the water downstream from the Property and
cultured the sample in accordance with Utah Water Watch criteria and found higher
E.coli levels than were present in samples taken the same day from East Canyon Creek.)



                                                                                  4|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
EOPOA is very concerned about the adverse impacts on the water quality that would
result from the extensive farming operations that are planned, as well as the sanitary
facilities that would be needed for the farm workers and invitees.
No agricultural activities requiring irrigation or other use of water have been or are
currently permitted. The impacts on water quality from the planned farming and tourism
operations have not been addressed. It would be improper for the Council to grant the
Application or, indeed, any permits for the improvements and facilities he describes, until
and unless water rights duly authorizing use of the state’s water on the Property for the
proposed purposes have been finally approved and the water quality impacts adequately
assessed. APA approval at this juncture should also be denied by the Council because the
future protections inherent in APA would severely limit the Council’s ability to address
those serious impacts in the future.
                       OTHER CONCERNS AND OBJECTIONS
While the factors listed above are reasons sufficient to require denial of the Application,
EOPOA has additional concerns and objections to the Application and the plans
described therein. Reserving its right to raise additional matters in the future, EOPOA
offers the following non-inclusive list of its concerns and objections.
    •    WILDFIRE RISK. The Parcel lies within an area prone to wildfire, and any fire
         that ignites onsite would immediately threaten homes of EOPOA members as
         well as others in the canyon. A wildfire in 1988 burned about 90% of Freeze
         Canyon. (Nelson, C.V., and Rasely, R.C., 1988, Affleck Park fire sediment yield
         analysis: Salt Lake County Public Works Department unpublished memorandum,
         5 p.). Construction, maintenance and operational activities at the Parcel pose a
         substantial risk of igniting a wildfire that don’t currently exist. The Application
         contemplates the practice of using biochar to return carbon to the soil. Biochar
         production consists of igniting woody material in a metal box with limited
         oxygen, thus producing a product similar to charcoal. Any sparks, flames or coals
         that escape from this apparatus would be virtually certain to start a fire in the
         surrounding forest, and the remote location and difficult access to the site would
         delay suppression efforts. There is no fire-flow water storage available for fire
         suppression and the narrow width and steep access grades described for the access
         road will make it difficult if not impossible for fire trucks to respond to the
         Property. The risk is too great for any supposed reward from this method of
         clearing downed logs and other forest debris from the site.

         The Application posits improvements involving extensive use of heavy equipment
         for road building and construction activities, not to mention motorized equipment
         for delivery, planting and harvesting activities – all involving fuel and lubrication



                                                                                   5|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
         storage, transfer and use. These activities present ignition sources that are not
         currently present and should not be allowed in the future in this volatile
         environment.

    •    RECENT CONDUCT. The Application states that the Property is currently in
         use as a commercial agricultural business. It lists apiary operations, commercial
         quantities of maple sap collected, and native fruit harvested for syrups as existing
         uses. Application, Exhibit 7. Leaving aside the fact that some of these activities
         are non-conforming uses that are not allowed in the Project’s zone, they are all
         commercial activities for which a business license is required. ECC 5.02.010-
         .020. Even worse, Mr. Leick recently erected a sign on the Property stating that it
         is a protected “Agritourism” property. Agritourism is defined as “the
         combination of agricultural production with tourism to attract participants from
         the general public” for their “entertainment, recreation, or education”. Utah
         Code Section 78B-4-512 (EOPOA’s emphasis.) EOPOA strongly objects to the
         conduct of or plans for any Agritourism activities on the Property. It is not zoned
         for a business based on attracting the general public for entertainment, recreation
         or education. These are activities for which a business license is required but
         could not be granted. EOPOA objects to the operation of an agritourism business
         because the additional traffic and wildfire risks inherent in inviting the public to
         the Property.

         The activities done and planned for the Property also fall within the definition of
         Development, for which advance permits are required. ECC 19.02.090;
         19.04.165. Mr. Leick admits that he has cleared trees and vegetation on the
         Property even though such removal may only be done in compliance with ECC
         19.12.100. He states in Exhibits 8 and 9 of the Application that he has
         constructed a shed, tree house and solar array on the Property, apparently without
         first obtaining the required permits. ECC 19.04.140, -.520. Indeed, EOPOA is not
         aware that Mr. Leick obtained any of the required city licenses or permits for the
         business activities or construction he describes. He also states that he has spent
         thousands of dollars on streambed alterations, Application, Appendix ,4, p. 2,
         even though it is illegal to alter natural streams without first obtaining a written
         permit from the State of Utah. Utah Code Section 73-3-29. EOPOA is unaware
         of any such permit. EOPOA submits that this past pattern of unapproved
         activities is reason enough to expect that Mr. Leick may also ignore future license
         and approval requirements and thus should not be accorded the regulatory
         insulation that would be afforded by the creation of an APA.




                                                                                    6|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
    •    FUTURE PLANS. Exhibits 8 and 9 to the Application detail plans for, among
         other things, a new 8’x12’ bridge, a new 16’x16’ observation deck, a new
         10’x’12’ Slovenian bee house, a new 40’x80’ West Homestead barn building pad
         (presumably to be followed by erection of a 40’x80’ barn), a new 16’x16’
         greenhouse building pad (presumably to be followed by erection of a 16’x16’
         greenhouse), and a new 20’x40’ lumber mill building pad (presumably to be
         followed by erection of a 20’x40’ lumber mill). These plans indicate an intense
         level of development that is inappropriate for this sensitive site and that,
         particularly considering past conduct where regulations have not been honored,
         should not be insulated from the regulatory protections of an APA.

    •    TRAFFIC. EOPOA is very concerned about the adverse traffic impacts of Mr.
         Leick’s plans. The thousands of heavy truckloads of equipment and materials to
         support this project, including excavation and grading equipment, the concrete
         necessary to complete the 4256 square feet of building pads, the laborers, and
         sanitary facilities, and the trips by the many workers and “students” required to
         manage the ongoing farm operations, not to mention the tourism goal of
         agritourism, would present an increased and unnecessary burden on Emigration
         Canyon Road regardless of how he intends to access the Property from the
         highway. If his intent is to access the Property through EOPOA, as it appears,
         then its traffic concerns are amplified manyfold. The EOPOA roads are privately
         owned and maintained. These roads are not designed or engineered to support an
         ongoing, intense commercial agricultural business. EOPOA has very serious
         concerns about the damage that would be done to its roads and the safety and
         liability issues that would be presented if Mr. Leick were allowed to access and
         support his Property through its roadway system.

    •    ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER ADVERSE IMPACTS. In addition to the
         concerns of fire risk, noise, construction impacts, water quality, and waste (animal
         and human, whether by septic system or regular sanitation container traffic),
         animal husbandry issues mentioned above, EOPOA objects to the proposed
         introduction of non-native animal species to the area including pigs, goats, cattle,
         sheep, and poultry. The Application does not reveal how these animals would be
         transported, how their waste will be handled or where they will be housed (during
         the months where snow cover and weather conditions render access and their use
         problematic at the site – nor the cost of this care and attendant effect on
         profitability. Downstream users of Freeze Creek water and EID can expect
         increased pollution from such practices taking place near the water's source. The
         Application reveals that carnivores (foxes, cougars, black bears, coyotes, bobcats,
         skunks, raccoons, marten, fishers, mink, weasels) "are common across the



                                                                                  7|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
         property," (p. 24), but does not reveal how or whether these carnivores – plus the
         coyotes that occupy the area – will be prevented from predating on the domestic
         animals.

         The Application frankly acknowledges that prior “historical vegetation
         management” is not evident on the Property. Application, Exhibit 3, p. 4. Thus,
         vegetation management is not a historical use of the Property and cannot be a
         basis for approving APA status. For that and other environmental reasons,
         EOPOA also objects to Mr. Leick’s stated plans of introducing the 15 species of
         trees and shrubs, 19 species of edible forest edge plants, 20 species shady edible
         forest plant species, 56 edible riparian buffer plant species, and 15 edible
         windbreak plant species to the area. The great majority of these 125 species are
         non-native and should not be allowed to be introduced into or allowed to
         propagate in what is already a fragile, arid environment.

    •    Esthetics. The extensive development described in the Application, and the road
         or driveway Mr. Leick wants to construct, if allowed, and particularly if protected
         by APA status, will create permanent scars and other visual impacts. EOPOA
         members often use the Freeze Creek area for recreation and access to public
         lands, and believe that their use and enjoyment will be severely impacted if the
         Application is approved.
                                      CONCLUSION
EOPOA appreciates your careful consideration of its concerns and objections and will be
happy to respond to any questions you may have. We trust that as these points and those
that may be raised by others are properly weighed, you will agree with EOPOA that the
Application is ill-conceived and must be denied.

                                               Very truly yours,

                                               CLYDE SNOW & SESSIONS




                                               Edwin C. Barnes
                                               Timothy R. Pack

cc: Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association




                                                                                  8|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
Submitted by:
August Bress

Salt Lake City, UT 84108

Request: Designation of Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Parcel: 10-20-400-002, Emigration Canyon (40 acres, FR-20 Zone)

Summary of Opposition

The proposed Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA) raises significant
concerns for Emigration Canyon residents and the City. While agricultural preservation
is an important goal, the application appears to use the APA statute as a loophole to
shield planned development and operations from normal zoning oversight. Approval
would restrict the City’s zoning authority, building permit control, and eminent domain
powers, creating lasting consequences that may not reflect genuine agricultural
purposes.

Key Concerns

1. Questionable Agricultural Purpose

   •   Utah Code § 17-41-101(2) requires agricultural production for commercial
       purposes.
   •   “Crops” and “livestock products” under § 17-41-101(10) must have a reasonable
       expectation of profit.
   •   The application’s reliance on small-scale maple sap, native berries, and hobby-
       scale apiaries does not demonstrate commercially viable agricultural production.
       Instead, it resembles an experimental land-use plan designed to invoke APA
       protections while pursuing unrelated objectives.

2. Loss of Local Oversight

   •   Approval would permanently limit the City’s authority to:
          o Apply zoning and land-use controls.
          o Review and condition building permits for new structures.
          o Exercise eminent domain, if ever necessary.
   •   These powers exist to safeguard the public interest and should not be
       surrendered lightly.
3. Traffic, Roads, and Neighborhood Character

   •   Planned construction, operations, and employee/contractor traffic would place
       heavy strain on Emigration Oaks’ narrow private roads, not designed for
       commercial farm traffic.
   •   Introduction of farm operations into this residential setting undermines the rural-
       residential character and quiet enjoyment of existing homeowners.

4. Water and Environmental Impacts

   •   The parcel sits within a Drinking Water Source Protection Zone, heightening risks
       from soil disturbance, apiary chemicals, or accidental spills.
   •   Intensive clearing, irrigation, and construction threaten watershed integrity that
       Salt Lake City Public Utilities has a statutory duty to protect.

5. Wildfire Danger

   •   Farming operations and on-site structures increase ignition risks in a wildfire-
       prone canyon.
   •   Additional access needs, such as a proposed road along Freeze Creek, could
       both disrupt riparian areas and create new vectors for fire danger.

6. Non-Native Species and Ecological Risks

   •   Planned introduction of nursery crops, fruit trees, and other species risks
       displacing fragile native ecosystems and wildlife corridors.
   •   Once established, non-native plants and imported bees can spread well beyond
       property boundaries, undermining conservation values of adjacent U.S. Forest
       Service and watershed lands.

Conclusion

The Freeze Creek APA request is not a good-faith agricultural preservation proposal.
Instead, it would lock in broad protections while imposing serious risks on roads, water,
wildfire safety, and neighborhood character. The statute was never intended to be used
to bypass zoning controls for speculative or marginal agricultural ventures.

The City should deny the APA application and preserve its ability to review any future
proposals through the normal zoning and permitting processes.
Leick's proposal, poses a serious threat to the biodiversity of the region. The land is not suited
for large-scale agricultural production, particularly in an area that is part of a larger wilderness
corridor. This area is critical to preserving native flora and fauna, and any changes could have
far-reaching consequences.

3. Impacts on Infrastructure and Local Roads

Another significant concern is the strain that Mr. Leick's proposed operations will place on the
already limited infrastructure in Emigration Oaks. The construction of structures, employee
traffic, and equipment movement on private roads will increase wear and tear on already
fragile roads that were not designed to handle this kind of traffic. The area is not equipped to
handle the demands of a large-scale operation, especially in the face of winter conditions and
steep terrain. The creation of a road along Freeze Creek, as outlined in the proposal, would
only further exacerbate these issues, potentially leading to the degradation of roads and
increased maintenance costs that would be borne by the community.

4. Loss of Local Zoning Control and Public Safety

Perhaps most troubling is the potential loss of local zoning authority, building permit
oversight, and eminent domain powers. If the APA is granted, the City and County would
relinquish critical powers to regulate and control development in the area. This would remove
essential oversight of structures, potentially compromising the safety of the neighborhood,
especially given the ongoing risk of wildfires in the region. The ability to manage building
codes, environmental impact, and public safety would be effectively removed from local
governance, leaving residents with limited recourse if things go wrong.

5. Legal and Regulatory Violations

It has come to my attention that Mr. Leick has already engaged in activities that violate both
state and local laws. Reports indicate that he has used helicopters to illegally drop heavy
machinery and vehicles onto his property, and evidence suggests that illegal fires have been lit
and abandoned on the land. These actions not only undermine the legitimacy of his claims but
also demonstrate a disregard for the community’s safety and legal protections.

Conclusion

For all of the reasons outlined above, I respectfully request that the Agricultural Protection
Area (APA) request for Parcel 10-20-400-002 be denied. This proposal does not meet the
criteria set forth in Utah’s Agricultural Protection Area statute, particularly regarding the
land’s current use for agricultural production, its suitability for such activities, and the overall
impacts on the environment, infrastructure, and public safety.

I appreciate your consideration of these concerns and hope that you will carefully weigh the
long-term consequences of this proposal for our community and the surrounding environment.

Sincerely,

Rachel Baar, MD
W: www.kaddas.com




                BABA Compliant

                ISO 9001:2015




The content of this message is confidential. If you have received it by mistake, please inform us and then delete this message.



It is forbidden to copy, forward or in any way reveal the contents of this message to anyone. The integrity and security of



this email cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, the sender will not be held liable for any damage caused by the message.
and tapped some silver maple trees. Also as described the nature of the parcel - steep,
rugged, mountain terrain - is wholly unsuited to agriculture. If the landowner truly wished
to pursue commercial agriculture he would have chosen a more suitable piece of land.
Taken individually any one of these paragraphs disqualifies the property. Clearly Section
17.41.305 should be the end of the discussion. The property in question does not come
close to meeting the requirements for being rezoned as an Agricultural Protection Area.
Why then is the landlord pursuing this long-shot effort?
Soon after the landlord first purchased the property I met him on the trail and he shared
that he loved the idea of a wilderness retreat where he could go with his young family to
picnic, camp, and be in the mountains. At that time he knew that he’d be limited to trail
access but in our conversation came across as ok with that. In the ensuing years his
perspective has changed and as we all know has been working to build a road, across
land he does not own and has no right to traverse, into his property. So back to the
question: Why pursue an Agricultural Protection Area designation? The answer, I believe,
lies in section 17.41.402 of the code.
17.41.402. Limitations on Local Regulations.
The first paragraph of the section states the following:
“A political subdivision within which an agricultural protection area or industrial
protection area is created or with a mining protection area within its boundary shall
encourage the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture, industrial, or mining
use, respectively, within the area by not enacting a local law, ordinance, or regulation
that would unreasonably restrict a farm structure or farm practice or, in the case of an
industrial protection area, an industrial use of the land within the area or, in the case of a
mining protection area, a mining use within the protection area unless the law,
ordinance, or regulation bears a direct relationship to public health or safety."
Paragraph 2 of this section states that a political subdivision may not change the zoning
designation or regulation of the area in the Agricultural Protection Area without the
written permission of the landowner.
Allowing the Freeze Creek property to be rezoned as an Agricultural Protection Area
would require the Emigration City Council, the Salt Lake City Council, The Emigration
Improvement District, perhaps the U.S. Forest Service (Not sure on Forest Service - I
don’t know if Federal lands are subject to state regulations), and while private, perhaps
the Emigration Oaks Homeowners Association to “encourage the continuity,
development, and viability of agriculture...” “by not enacting a local law, ordinance, or
regulation that would unreasonably restrict a farm structure or farm practice...”.
Approval of this application has the potential to remove the right of the citizens of
Emigration Canyon to ensure clean water by forcing the Emigration Improvement District
to “encourage the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture” on the property.
Does this mean allowing terracing and the sediment such efforts would release? Does it
mean allowing fertilizer use and the damaging runoff that creates? Would it require
Emigration City and Salt Lake City to do the same?
And of course there’s the endgame - the applicants documented desire to build a road
across lands that do not belong to him up to his property. It’s very likely the landowner
would soon make the argument that the viability of his agricultural operation would be
enhanced if he had his road. And 17.41.402 requires political subdivisions to “encourage
the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture”. How could the various political
subdivisions deny him his road when his case would be that it would improve his
agricultural viability?
This is what the red herring of the “Agricultural Protection Area” is about. It’s not about
creating a commercial agriculture operation on land clearly unsuited to the purpose. It’s
about adding an additional lever to his quiver to force landowners and political
subdivisions to allow him his road.
But of course political decisions cannot be made exclusively on the basis of the likely
motivations of the applicant. And in this instance such a basis is not necessary as
17.41.305 makes it abundantly clear that the property in question does not qualify.
The applicant may protest that his application has nothing to do with his desire for a
road. Great. Put that in the application as a condition of approval. That the applicant will
not now or any time in the future attempt to create access to the property beyond the
hiking trail as it exists today. Bet he won’t agree to that.
Thank you all for your attention.


Regards,


John Bird




Albion Financial Group does not accept any investment instructions, including but not limited
to buy and sell orders, via e-mail. This e-mail (including any attachments) may contain
confidential, proprietary and privileged information, and unauthorized disclosure or use is not
allowed and is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). If you received this email by
mistake, please notify the sender and delete this e-mail from your system. E-mail messages are
not encrypted, so any information sent or received may not be secure. Thank you.
From:              Frank Whitby
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Do not support upper freeze creek development or access
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:43 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Do not support access to upper Freeze Creek areas and do not allow use
or changes to Emigration Oaks roads to facilitate access.
The owners of isolated properties have always known that they do not have access.
No one should be forced to facilitate access to their properties.  
It is not the responsibility of Emigration Oaks, nor is it in the best interest of
Emigration Oaks, to facilitate access or development of land in
Freeze Creek or Pinecrest or other areas.
-Frank Whitby (                     )
already under stress. Utah’s wilderness areas are not only ecological
treasures but also economic assets, drawing millions of visitors who
support local communities through recreation and tourism. Once disturbed,
wilderness cannot be easily restored—its value lies precisely in its
undisturbed state.


Conclusion
Agricultural development must be balanced with the preservation of Utah’s
water, land, and wilderness. This proposal fails that test. By threatening
private property rights, jeopardizing our aquifers, and endangering
protected wildlands, it places short-term agricultural expansion above long-
term public good. Utah’s leaders should reject the current proposal and
instead pursue policies that strengthen agriculture through efficiency, water
conservation, and respect for private and public land stewardship.
Sincerely,
Christopher Canale

Sent from my iPhone
From:              Meg Averett
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Farm Proposal on Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:17:50 PM




[You don't often get email from                            . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

This is ridiculous. That this would even be considered.
Please vote no on this. It is crazy….
From:               Ryan Wood
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Ag Protection Area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 1:41:01 PM




[You don't often get email from                                  Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Hello Diana,

I am writing to you concerning the proposed Agricultural Protection Area in Freeze Creek in Emigration Canyon. I
am sure you have already received many emails on the matter, so I will be brief and direct. I am a resident and
homeowner of the Emigration Oaks neighborhood.

I am opposed to this agricultural protection area designation, as I feel that it is simply a tactic to gain road access to
the owners parcel of land. I am familiar with the situation and understand both sides of the argument, but I am
convinced that any agricultural designation of this parcel will be leveraged in an unintended, dishonest manner. I am
also extremely concerned about wildfire danger Please consider this a strong vote of dissent for this designation.

Thanks,

Ryan Wood

Sent from my iPhone
From:              Markus Amann
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area - bad idea
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:45 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Hi Diana,
I live on Old Oak Road and just heard about Ryan Leick’s plans of creating the Freeze Creek
Agricultural Protection Area, and of building a road and a farm accessible to the public in
upper Freeze Creek.
I think this is – for many reasons – a terrible idea and we (my wife, kids, and I) strongly oppose.
Cheers,
Markus Amann

______________________________________
Markus Amann, Ph.D.
Theodore H. Stanley Presidential Endowed Chair in Anesthesiology
Professor, Department of Anesthesiology, University of Utah
GRECC Investigator, Salt Lake City VA Medical Center
From:              Hanadi Farrukh
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:45 PM




[This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
risk at https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

This email is to voice our concerns and opposition to the creation of Freeze Creek Agricultural Area in Emigration
Canyon City. We are concerned about the introduction of any non-native plant species that can have detrimental
environmental impact on our ecosystem. In addition we are extremely concerned about contamination of our well
water by farms animal waste let alone the smell it may bring to our residential neighborhoods.

We urge you to consider refusing to grant any permits for agricultural purposes in Emigration City.

Thank you.
Respectfully

Hanadi and Imad Farrukh

Emigration Canyon City, Ut 84108
Julie H. Wood |
From:               Arden Weintraub
To:                 Diana Baun
Cc:                                        ; Becky Weintraub; EmigrationOaksBoard@gmail.com
Subject:            Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 11:26:12 AM




[You don't often get email from                              Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Ms Baun,

We are property owners, and live in our home in Emigration Oaks. We enjoy the quiet atmosphere, the low traffic
burden, and use the trails on an almost daily basis.

The idea of the type of development being proposed by Ryan Leick, is a desecration to all that living in this canyon
offers, and attracted us to build here. Having an array of farm animals, buildings, equipment, non-native tree
species, and increased traffic burden, is unthinkable. Mr Lieck knew what he was purchasing when he bought his
property, as did we. Now he wants to change it in a draconian fashion to meet his desires, which will negatively
impact ours, and everyone else in this canyon. This does not even take into account, the greater environmental
impact, property valuations, etc.

Therefore, we are in complete opposition to any of Ryan Leick’s land being recognized, or designated, as an
Agricultural Protection Area.

Sincerely,

Arden & Becky Weintraub
With all of this in mind, I encourage resisting the proposal to designate this land as an
agricultural protection zone, and wholeheartedly pursuing preserving the land as it naturally
exists.



Thank you for your time,



Ian
From:               Sue Bird
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Agritourism and Agricultural Protection Area
Date:               Wednesday, September 24, 2025 4:30:22 PM




[You don't often get email from                              . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Diana,
I writing to let you know that I am extremely opposed to allowing Ryan Leick to go any further with this insane idea
of an Agricultural Protection Area. This gentleman bought this land on the top and side of a mountain with the full
understanding that he did not and would not be granted access to build a road up there. He is now suing to get
approval for a road to this property via an Agricultural Use. He is claiming that he was successful at making some
sugar syrup.
Right now it looks like a homeless camp. There is plastic tubing running through the trees and a big jug that has
about 1/4 cup of sugar water. He has put up a sign regarding this Agritourism and Protected area even though he
has not been granted this right. His application has stated he wishes to have garage built, manufacturing and
packing and storage to support this business. There is no way any of this can be built with out a road to access. He
has visions for some Agritourism business however again there is no assess and I understand that the Emigration
Oaks Homeowners Association has not granted him access let alone the public access to our trails.
This is a very pristine area (or was). He has plans for grazing, chickens, pigs and sheep. What about the waste
products? This area is in our watershed area and there is no septic system up there. He has cut down a bunch of
trees and left in big piles which present a fire hazard. He has plans to clear areas and provide wind breaks for his
crops. This is not the place for any kind of commercial crops. The sides of the cliffs are very steep and there is only
a very small creek that runs through there. This would not provide the water needed to plant and establish any kind
of crop. Once he starts clearing the land, there will be increased exposure for noxious and invasive weeds that we
have been trying to keep out of the area.
I fully believe that Mr. Leick is using this Agriculture use as an excuse to get a road up there to access his property.
This should be denied.
Susan and Roger Bird

Emigration Oaks
From:               Sally Simnett
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek agrotourism farm
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 4:53:06 PM




[You don't often get email from                             Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Ms Baun

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and I would like to submit my objection to the proposed agrotourism farm in
Freeze Creek.

My objections are many and are as follows

1. Emigration Oak residents rely upon well water.
We do not have access to city water and when our well is run dry several hundred residents will have no water
supply. As a community we monitor to health of our Well, both consumption and toxins detrimental to our health
that are released into it.
As the proposed farm will be built above our Well all chemicals, pesticides and animal byproduct will be released
into our water supply in large amounts. This is unacceptable.
The proposed farm will be grazing livestock on this land. As such water consumption will increase exponentially.
Livestock will be drinking large amounts of water, crops and grass will require large amounts of water, visitors in
large to said farm will need water. This water consumption is not sustainable on this Well.
Residents of the Oaks need water to survive as do the livestock taken up to this property. What is the outcome for all
when the Well is run dry?

2. Emigration Oaks residents protect our homes and land from wildfire.
Every year we make great efforts to avoid a wildfire disaster. As a community we remove dead trees and understory,
we keep our roadsides clear and discourage cars from parking on dead grasses at the roadside for fear of catalytic
converter fire.
We try very hard.
It is my fear that building barns, keeping straw and animal feed therein will increase our wildfire risk. Car parking
visitors on unpaved land could spark a fire. Also visitors who arrive may well throw down a smoldering cigarette
butt. Then we have a disaster.

3. Emigration Oaks residents protect our lands from non native plant species
As a community we remove and eradicate non native invasive plant species from our community property. We have
a weed committee and pay our teenagers to pull those weeds.
Last year we were awarded a grant from the city to plant native pollinator plants, that is at freeze creek.
The proposal at the farm is to plant hundreds on non native plants and trees on the property. How many of those will
become invasive to the ecosystem of the Oaks?
This year I believe the city of Salt Lake paid to have the invasive Myrtle Spurge eradicated from Cottonwood
canyon. Why would we knowingly allow the introduction of a non native species which will become a problem.

4. Emigration Oaks residents maintain their roadways yearly
The HOA funds we pay are used to maintain and repair our roadways. As such they are without potholes.
With them influx of heavy farm equipment and hundreds of visitors to this farm our roads will be damaged very
quickly. Who will be paying for the repairs caused by this insult of heavy usage?
Our speed limit is 25mph will that be respected or will we now have have traffic speeding along our peaceful
residential roads.

5. We live in Emigration Oaks because we enjoy the peaceful nature of the environment
We live alongside resident wildlife peacefully and with respect. We protect our wildlife and make effort to destroy
their habitat.
It is my concern that the visitors to this commercial business will not respect our speed limit. They will not stop
their car for wildlife crossing.
In our canyon we have flocks of wild turkeys, moose, deer, quail, coyote and bears all,of which cross our roads
frequently how many will now be slaughtered by a speeding tourist?

6. We live in harmony with our wildlife
Emigration Oaks has an ecosystem of wildlife which we strive to support and live at peace with.
We know that many large predators live in our woods but we leave them unmolested. This is their home that we
share. As such we keep our pets safe and do not leave food enticement near to our homes.
When this farm has livestock and food sources it will become a lure for our predators looking for food. When
coyotes and wild cats hunt the livestock this landowner will start to kill the resident wildlife.
Why are we allowing a farm to be built where the livestock cannot be protected? We are allowing a wildlife conflict
to occur. Everywhere in this world environmentalists are looking for ways to avoid wildlife conflict and yet here we
are knowingly allowing it to happen.

Thank you for taking the time to read all of my concerns, I do hope that you will take them into consideration.
Please vote against this farm, we love our wild lands up here and strive to protect its wild environment.

Yours Sincerely
Sally Simnett
September 26, 2025


Diana Baun
City Recorder Emigration Canyon City
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700

Subject: Opposition to Development Application

Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,

As a resident of Emigration Canyon, I am quite alarmed by the application to designate 40
acres of land in Freeze Creek into an Agricultural Protection Area. While the term itself may
sound rather innocuous, this designation is merely the ﬁrst step in a series of highly
aggressive and dangerous development tactics by the applicant.

The address of the property, 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road, is a little misleading, as there is
no realistic way to provide vehicular access via that road. While a trail exists that
approaches the subject property, per the applicant’s own hiking access instructions it
requires you to ‘bushwhack’ to between the trail leading from Pinecrest Canyon Road to the
Freeze Creek trail that is maintained by Emigration Oaks. Due to the remote location of this
landlocked parcel, which is three miles away from Pinecrest Canyon Road, the applicant is
currently suing Emigration Oaks and Salt Lake City Corporation in an attempt to build a new
road from his property that would traverse land owned by Salt Lake City and Emigration
Oaks and connect into Pioneer Fork Road, a private road owned and maintained by
Emigration Oaks. This would effectively render our private road public, taking it away from
the community and its residents who help pay for its maintenance, and crowding it with the
traffic related to his industrial farming and agritourism operations. When the owner
purchased the property he was well aware that the parcel was landlocked and inaccessible
by road, and the price of the property reﬂected this reality. The value of the property would
likely be increased by 20-50 times what the applicant paid for it should he succeed in his
legal efforts and secure vehicular access to his speculative development; however, that
ﬁnancial win for the applicant would come at the cost of the entire Emigration Oaks
community, and would have negative impacts for canyon residents as a whole.

The development of a commercial farm on this property presents several threats to the
residents of Emigration Canyon. The entire subject parcel is located within the Ground
Water Source Protection Management of Emigration Improvement District’s Upper Freeze
Creek wells as deﬁned in Salt Lake County Ordinance Section 9.25 – Water Source
Protection. The applicant’s site design documents, prepared by Backyard Abundance,
describe the use of pigs, goats, cattle, chickens, and geese on the property, as well as the
use of manure for fertilization. It is fairly self-evident that these activities are not
compatible with the goal of water source protection.
September 25, 2025


Emigration Canyon City Council
c/o Diana Baun
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700
dbaun@msd.utah.gov

Subject: Urgent Opposition to Development Application

Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,

I am writing to express my strong opposition to the pending development application
before the Council. While development disputes often center on issues of developer
proﬁts, neighborhood nuisances, or property values, this particular application presents a
clear and undeniable risk to the safety of our community and environment.

The Paramount Concern: Wildﬁre Risk
This application comes with an extensive list of reasons for denial, but I will focus on the
single issue that most directly impacts the safety of our community, our families, and our
environment: the unacceptable increase in wildﬁre risk.

We have just witnessed the devastating consequences of wildﬁres in places like Paciﬁc
Palisades and Altadena, California. The loss was not only massive in terms of homes,
schools, and entire communities but tragically resulted in the loss of life, with an estimated
death toll of 400+. We cannot allow a similar fate to befall Emigration Canyon.

The data is clear: the wildﬁre risk in Emigration Canyon and the other canyons surrounding
Salt Lake City ranks amongst the highest in the country according to resources such as
wildﬁrerisk.org. Furthermore, discussions with high-level Salt Lake City officials would
reveal an incredibly high level of concern over a similar catastrophic ﬁre event occurring in
our area.

The proposed use introduces a known, heightened danger. It is a fact that agricultural
properties carry a much greater risk of wildﬁre ignition compared to residential properties
due to the presence of chemicals, fuels, pesticides, electrical systems, and machinery.
This risk is compounded by the increased distance from ﬁre department resources
involved in this application. In addition, residents utilizing the adjacent trails have already
witnessed the applicant engaging in concerning behavior, speciﬁcally controlled burns on
the property. While evidence of these actions may have been obscured, an immediate and
thorough inspection of the property may still reveal that these actions have occurred.
This application poses an intolerable threat to the well-being of our residents. I strongly
recommend that the Emigration Canyon City Council reject this proposal, if for no other
reason than to protect our families, our environment, and our lives. The potential cost of
this development, measured in human lives and ecological devastation, far outweighs any
perceived beneﬁt.

Thank you for your time and serious consideration of this critical public safety matter.

Sincerely,



Jason Stock

Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:               Chick!
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Proposal!
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 3:36:25 PM




[You don't often get email from                              . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

No! Absolutely not!
The threat to our water in emigration Oaks. Our Privacy policy! Plus all other obvious reasons! Absolutely not! It”s
not right, to change our privacy status either! No! No!

Chick Buehner
Resident of Emigration Oaks since 1995!




Sent from my iPad
From:               Chris Romney
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek trail
Date:               Sunday, September 21, 2025 9:25:59 PM




[You don't often get email from                             Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

We built in Emigration Oaks to enjoy the mountains. An integral part of our experience is the Freeze Creek trail.  
We do not support replacing this with a road.

Chris and Tina Romney

Sent from my iPhone
From:               Isabella Tcaciuc
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 10:07:57 PM




[You don't often get email from                              . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Diana,
I am writing in regards to the creation of a freeze creek agriculture protection area as proposed by Ryan Leick in
regards to his property in freeze creek, emigration canyon.
I and my family completely oppose this request of creating an agricultural protection area for his property or for any
property in this area.
Creating a farm on his property or have any creation of agritourism on his property which is the plan, would
completely disturb the ecosystem of that area of the canyon and possibly the entire canyon. His plan to plant non
native trees have pigs, goats and possibly other animals, building a barn create a place for agritoursm would create a
disturbance in the ecosystem, water pollution of the well and freeze creek and could cause a potential fire hazard. It
is unclear to me how this is even possible as a proposal in a neighborhood and in an already vulnerable canyon
where water and pollution is already a major issue.
So we oppose the creation of the freeze creek agricultural protection area.
Respectfully
Isabella Tcaciuc , Thomas Bosteels

SLC , UT 84108


Sent from my iPhone
From:               Robert Pinon
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Fw: Agricultural Protection Area Application
Date:               Thursday, September 18, 2025 3:08:31 PM
Attachments:        2025.08.31 Agricultural Protection Area in Utah.pdf
                    2025.09.11 Dates and Deadlines.pdf




Get Outlook for iOS

From: Cameron Platt <cameron@utahshieldlaw.com>
Sent: Thursday, September 18, 2025 2:43:23 PM
To: Joe Smolka (jsmolka@emigration.utah.gov) <jsmolka@emigration.utah.gov>; Jennifer Hawkes
<jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>; Catherine Harris (charris@emigration.utah.gov)
<charris@emigration.utah.gov>; David Brems (brems@ecmetro.org)
<dbrems@emigration.utah.gov>; Robert Pinon (rpinon@emigration.utah.gov)
<rpinon@emigration.utah.gov>
Cc: Polly McLean <polly@peaklaw.net>; Curtis D. Woodward <CDWoodward@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: Agricultural Protection Area Application

Dear Emigration Canyon Council Members,

I am writing to provide you with an overview of the Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
application process, which is currently underway. This explanation is intended to clarify the
steps involved and ensure that you are informed about the process. My apologies that I didn't get
this out earlier.

   1. Proposal Submission: The process begins when landowners submit a proposal to create
      an APA. This proposal must be signed by a majority of the real property owners and
      those owning a majority of the land area in agricultural production within the proposed
      APA. The proposal should include the boundaries of the proposed area, any limits on
      types of agriculture, and details for each parcel, such as owner names and tax parcel
      numbers.
   2. Public Notice and Comment Period: Once the proposal is accepted, a public notice is
      published to inform the community and solicit feedback. This notice must be provided
      for at least 15 days, during which time the public can submit written objections or
      requests for modifications to the proposal. We are currently in this 15-day public
      comment period, which began on September 11, 2025, and will conclude on September
      26, 2025.
   3. Review by Advisory Board and Planning Commission: After the public comment
      period, the proposal, along with any objections or modifications, is sent to the
      County APA advisory board and the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission. These
      bodies have 45 days to submit their reports, which analyze the proposal’s impact on
      local planning policies and recommend whether to accept, modify, or reject the
      proposal.
   4. Public Hearing: Following the 45 day review, a public hearing is scheduled to discuss
      the proposal and the recommendations from the advisory board and planning
      commission. This hearing provides an opportunity for further public input before a final
       decision is made.
    5. Final Decision: The Emigration Canyon Council, will make a final decision to approve,
       modify, or reject the proposal. This item is planned for the Nov. 17, 2025 Council Meeting. The
       decision must be made within 120 days of the proposal submission (Dec. 9, 2025). If no
       action is taken within this period, the proposal is automatically approved.

Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or require further clarification on any
aspect of the APA application process. I've also included a longer summary of the process and a
timeline for more specific information.

Sincerely,

Cameron Platt

2901 Bluegrass Blvd. Suite 200

Lehi, Utah 84043

(385) 419-1078




This electronic transmission may contain confidential and privileged information. This message is intended only for the use of the
individual or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is exempt from disclosure under applicable federal or state
law. If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or the employee or agent responsible for delivering the message to the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this communication in error, please notify us immediately by telephone and destroy the original message you received.
     purchased here for privacy.
  9. We did not see details on water use but worry that such use will be high and will
     affect the water supply for the already established community.
 10. Is there any evidence that what is proposed could be sustainable or make income
     longer term, or will we be left with an unfinished project?
 11. There is no discussion of impact to current hiking trails and access to the
     community.
 12. Do we have any evidence that maple trees can grow at the proposed altitude?

The owner proposes uses that are restricted for a good reason. The area is a quiet
residential area and should stay that way.

This proposal should be refused and the owner should use the land as appropriate to
current regulations and approvals.

Lisa and Frederick Albright
       notice website. Any person affected by the establishment of the area may, within 15 days of the
       date of this notice, file with the Council either written objections to the proposal or a written request
       to modify the proposal to exclude land from or add land to the proposed protection area."

Comments, objections, or questions may be submitted directly to:

     Diana Baun
     City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
     dbaun@msd.utah.gov
     (385) 377-9466

     Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun
     PO Box 147700
     Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700

Message from Paul Brown, EOPOA President:

     Some things that people can express concerns about, in their own words, if they want to comment. The
     number of comments matters, not how eloquently they are worded. They shouldn't be word-for-word the
     same, so we're not sending out "model" language that everyone can sign on to.

     Submit a letter or email expressing your main concerns in your own language. Those concerns might include
     the serious impacts on the private roads and character of Emigration Oaks if his request were granted,
     including the planned construction, operation and employee traffic, impacts on water and environment,
     wildfire danger of operations in the canyon, the introduction of non-native plant and animal species, need for
     a road along Freeze Creek to serve the farm and the like.

     (Note that the city would give up zoning authority, ability to control structures (building permits), and eminent
     domain power if this is approved.)

     The Utah statute allowing Agricultural Protection Areas defines agricultural production as meaning production
     for commercial purposes (17--41-101(2)). Crops are useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation
     of profit (41-17-101(10)).


We strongly encourage all members to review the materials, consider the potential impacts, and provide comments
by the deadline above. Your input is vital in ensuring the community's voice is heard.

With gratitude,


Dave Sheffield
On behalf of the EOPOA Board of Directors




 This message has been sent to terry.keller4@gmail.com

 As a subscriber of General Correspondence at Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, we'll periodically send you an email
 to help keep you informed. If you wish to discontinue receiving these types of emails, you may opt out by clicking Safe
 Unsubscribe.
 To view our privacy policy, click Privacy Policy.

 This message has been sent as a service of AssociationVoice, provider of smart Websites for Associations and Management, 1290
 Broadway Suite 1400, Denver, CO 80203. AssociationVoice © 2025. All rights reserved.
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Carolyn Lynch
Date: Wed, Sep 24, 2025 at 2:48 PM
Subject: Additional public comment
To: <dbaun@msd.utah.gov>


I would like to add to my public comment some photos. These Show a sign posted on the
property implying that the property is already an agricultural protected zone. This sign was
posted prior to the close of the public comment period and determination. Photos of piles of
wood and brush which has been felled and not removed from the property which present an
increased risk of wildfire to the surrounding area.
of the syrup collection container which appears to be empty and is not within the boundaries
of the property.
      Such activities will bring increased noise, traffic, and footfall that disrupt the peace,
      privacy, and lifestyle that residents moved here to enjoy.

      There are valid concerns about trash export, construction, and deforestation from the
      proposed on-site lumber milling and structure-building activities.


4. Water Rights and Overreach

      The use of shared or natural water resources (including the Freeze Creek well and creek
      water) for a private commercial venture could set a troubling precedent. This could lead
      to disputes over water rights and long-term sustainability issues.


5. Use of Public Grants for Private Profit

      While we appreciate the educational goals of a UVU professor, we are concerned that
      the grant funding may be supporting activities that primarily serve private business
      interests under the label of agrotourism or education.


In conclusion, this proposal is not in alignment with the values, zoning, or environmental
stewardship that our township has upheld. It raises significant concerns that must be addressed
with thorough environmental impact assessments, traffic studies, and legal reviews regarding
water use and public access changes.

Please deny any requests to:

      Change road access from private to public for this purpose,

      Divert or utilize natural water resources beyond legal limits,

      Permit commercial sawmill or lumber operations in a residential/agricultural zone,

      Allow agrotourism activities that compromise the integrity and safety of our
      neighborhood.

We hope the board will listen carefully to the voices of the community before making any
decisions that could have lasting consequences.

Sincerely,
Michelle and Andrew Oelsner


PS - sorry for the long email, but this is a huge concern and requires a lot of information.




Sent from my iPhone
ecosystem that is heavily used by the Emigration Oaks community.

I don't know what drives a person like Mr. Leick to do these things. But all I can say is that he
will destroy the Freeze Creek ecosystem beyond repair and place permanent scars upon the
landscape. When is enough, enough? As part of the EO community, I am joining others to
take a stand against Mr. Leick's proposal.

Respectfully submitted,

Douglas Brockmeyer MD
September 23, 2025

Ms. Diana Baun

Emigration Canyon City Council

P.O. Box 147700

Salt Lake City, Utah. 84114-7700

Dear Emigration Canyon City Council Members:

I am contacting you today to provide my comments on the Proposal to Create an Agricultural Zone.
I am a resident of Emigration Oaks in Emigration Canyon and have serious concerns about this
proposal. Therefore, I am in opposition to creation of this agricultural zone. My concerns are
outlined below:

   1. Increased Fire Risk – this area is land locked and would pose additional ﬁre risk to
      Emigration Canyon. No ﬁre trucks can access this area.
   2. Transportation to the Proposed Agricultural Zone – this area is land locked and there are no
      roads to transport agricultural materials and waste. Practically, this makes the proposal
      unworkable.
   3. Impact on Freeze Creek Water Supply – The impact on our water supply from the Freeze
      Creeks wells would be greatly compromised. Agricultural, livestock, and human waste
      from this proposed agricultural zone could signiﬁcantly damage our well water quality.
   4. The Proposed Agricultural Land is Not Likely to Yield a Return – As this land is proposed for
      maple syrup production, using existing maple trees vs. sugar maples will not yield proﬁtable
      results. This land is arid, rocky, and at a high elevation which would provide immense
      challenges for agricultural production. From the submitted proposal, I am skeptical this
      property would be suitable for agriculture.
   5. Adverse Impacts to the Quality of the Freeze Creek Trail and Emigration Oaks Subdivision -
      Signiﬁcant damage to the open spaces and trails that this agricultural zone proposal would
      create diminishes the recreational potential for this area.

For these reasons, I am against creation of an agricultural protected zone as described in the
current proposal. Thank you for considering my comments as your review this proposal.

Sincerely,

Joan M. Gallegos



Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
September 26, 2025



Ms. Diana Baun and members of Emigration Canyon City Council,



My name is Justin Haller and I am a homeowner and resident of the Emigration Oaks
community in Emigration Canyon, Utah. I am writing you in response to the proposal to
designate parcel 10-20-400-002 as an agricultural protection area by Mr. Ryan Leich.
Based on my independent review of the proposal and my experience as a resident of the
community directly impacted by this proposal, I ask that you reject this proposal. At its
foundation, this proposal is reckless, disruptive, and not well-intentioned.

The plot of land in this proposal does not have any current road access. In order to execute
this proposal, the land around Freeze Creek would have to be completely disrupted to
create a road or path to accommodate vehicles and construction equipment to create the
proposed structures and land changes for the agricultural area. This would disrupt plants
and animals, violate hiking paths, and generate massive amounts of runoff. It would also
lead to massive increases in road traffic on our private roadways creating safety concerns
for our residents, children, and pets that frequent these areas.

In addition to building a new road, the generation of a new agricultural area would require
deforestation with heavy machinery and reforestation and regrading. This is disruptive to
the natural, local plants and animals. Regardless of the measures used and attempts to
minimize erosion and run-off, these land changes will ultimately have a major impact on
land topography of surrounding areas. The heavy equipment needed to reshape the natural
land also presents a wildﬁre risk in an area that has an inherent elevated risk and would
place homeowners at unnecessary risk for wildﬁre.

Most members of this community have chosen to live in the area due to reduced traffic and
enhanced interaction with nature. This proposal could potentially change that. Even
outside of the immediate changes with construction that are necessary to create the
proposed agricultural area, the presence of this agricultural area changes the everyday
experience for community-members. The increased traffic from employees and visitors to
the agricultural area could have dramatic effects on community-members every day.

Finally, the proposed changes would dramatically affect the water supply of the Freeze
Creek watershed. As we know in Utah, water is a scarce resource. Emigration Canyon is
especially susceptible to shifts in the water supply as the residents are reliant on the local
water supply and aquifers for daily water usage. With the Emigration Oaks at near capacity
and little tolerance in the water supply, the community cannot tolerate diverting water
shares to an agricultural area.

While I generally agree with allowing people an appropriate amount of latitude to use their
personal property, I have to object when decisions or proposals impact other property
owners. This proposal clearly impacts surrounding property owners in a signiﬁcant way
and generates several safety concerns that cannot be adequately mitigated. This proposal
has limited community beneﬁts that do not outweigh the risks. I hope that you will
consider my concerns regarding this agricultural area and reject this proposal. I am happy
to have further discussions on this matter and can be reached at



Sincerely,

Justin Haller
From:              Nancy McLaughlin
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leich Agricultural Protection Area application
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:44 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baun,

I am writing regarding Mr. Ryan Leich’s Agricultural Protection Area application.

This application should be summarily denied.

Mr. Leich purchased this remote parcel at a highly-discounted price given its
remote location, pristine nature, and lack of access. He is now seeking to cash in on
his minimal “investment” by creating a means of access.

His proposed uses of the parcel, including but not limited to the construction of a
new road and bridge through pristine land and public access, would be extremely
detrimental to the public interest. The extraordinary damage to water quality,
scenic values, native species of plants, and critical wildlife habitat is reason enough
to deny this application. When you add to that the incalculable harm to the public
from increased in wildfire danger (Emigration Canyon is considered to be at
“Extreme Risk” for wildfire, making it one of the most dangerous canyons in Utah
for this hazard), it is simply a “no-brainer” to deny this application.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this application.

Nancy A. McLaughlin
From:              Mark Gibson
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leick Agricultural Area Proposal, Freeze Creek, Emigration Canyon
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:42 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baum:

I have lived in Emgration Canyon for 20 years

I understand Ryan Leick to be proposing an “Agriculural Protection Area” a bit above
6000 feet elevation in the Freeze Creek Drainage in Emigration Canyon. At this point in
it's course the Freeze Creek lies in a steeply sloped defile. The terrain in this area is
mostly precipitous slopes with rock outcrops, with very little gently sloped land
surrounding the Creek itself. The proposed area lies at the nexus of a major fault
slipping Twin Creek Limestone south of Nugget Sandstone, and a there is a recent major
land slump on steep slopes on the north side of this area that nearly reached the
proposed project site with debris. The entire drainage and its surrounds are wild country,
hosting abundant wildlife and native trees and flora. The watershed is pristine. This area
is in the heart of a broad swath of land used by bow hunters, hikers, back country skiers,
and wildlife watchers

This plan would disrupt a wild place. Its shallow soils and narrow confines would not
allow for mitigation of animal wastes entering the unspoiled Freeze Creek watershed.
Beyond contamination and disruption of the ecology of this stream, contamination will
proceed into Emigration Creek. Moreover, there are several points of culinary water
usage in the drainage at risk from agricultural activities. Even ordinary human use of the
property would require an extensive, disupting ,mound-type septic system on the rocky,
shallow soils, and adequate set-back of such from the stream would appear doubtful.

Constructing a road to this location would be difficult. It would have to travel close to
the stream, further disrupting the stream and its habitat.

Beyond these rather obvious ecologic, watershed and recreational insults is the
observation that a person visiting this site would struck by how markedly the proposed
agricultural scheme far-fetched, fraught, and out of character with its environs.

I urge denial of the “Agricultural Protection Area” designation for the Ryan Leick property
on Freeze Creek. I would also urge that that any ruling on this matter include
considerations of feasibility of Mr. Leick's projected use after on-site inspection of Mr.
Leick's property. The input of a hydrogeologist would seem important.



Thank you for hearing my concerns.
Sincerely,

Mark Gibson



Salt Lake City, UT 84108
3. Beehives….

Are you aware there are black bears in Emigration Canyon?? They love honey.



4. Based on the site plan in this proposal it is not defined how the equipment and materials
needed will be delivered to the site without using private roads. Access to the site via already
established private roads should NOT be allowed. Why should established rights be given up
for someone’s business ? Why wasn’t this figured out BEFORE the property was purchased?

Use the public road instead ….Pinecrest Road.
From:              Karen Eilbeck
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Dave Sheffield
Subject:           OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-
                   20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 4:29:39 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk


RE: File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest
Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

To the Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council, Care of Diana Baun,

I am writing to oppose the request to create an Agriculture Protection Area for Parcel
Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres) Road. Such a change would have severe and
lasting consequences for residents of Emigration Oaks, Emigration Canyon and
importantly, the environment.

The neighborhood of Emigration Oaks relies on private roads that cannot handle
construction vehicles, farm equipment, or employee traffic. Beyond traffic concerns, farm
operations would change the quiet character of the neighborhood and create unacceptable
safety risks, particularly wildfire hazards. Freeze Creek is the water source for Emigration
Oaks and beyond, such as for those in Margarithe Lane. There is also the annual risk of
Spring flooding to take into consideration, especially with the potential downstream impacts
from a farm. The fragile water system, already under pressure, would face new demands
and possible contamination.

Additionally, the introduction of non-native plant or animal species could disrupt local
ecosystems, and the need for a service road along Freeze Creek would permanently scar
the landscape. This is a pristine riparian creek, used as a corridor for wildlife. I have seen
moose, deer, and bobcats using this corridor and know from my neighbors that mountain
lions are also around, although I have not witnessed one yet. The community of Emigration
Oaks has a very active native plant and weed group that spends the Spring and Summer
months on education and invasive plant action. This is a community that cares deeply
about the native Utah habitat. The impacts from developing this natural area are
incompatible with the purpose and spirit of Emigration Canyon as a residential and natural
refuge.

I also want to add that this individual purchased this property knowing that it was
landlocked. The attempts to force an agricultural classification by tapping a few trees
seems very disingenuous, and makes me wonder what the real intent is.

For these reasons, I strongly urge you to deny the proposal.

Sincerely,

Karen Eilbeck

Emigration Canyon
Mr. Leick purchased his 40 acre parcel with the full understanding that it did not have
road access. If he wanted to build an agricultural center, he should have purchased a
different parcel.

Why make so many people suffer and put the safety of us all in jeopardy for one person’s
benefit? How could one person’s desire to build a road to his property ruin the reactional
benefits of a private neighborhood enjoyed by so many people be even considered?
There are many parcels of land in Utah that Mr. Leick could purchase to build an
agricultural area, but there is only ONE Emigration Canyon. Please preserve it.

Sincerely,

Kellie Risser
Marathon Circle, Emigration Oaks
From:              Annette Macintyre
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Rob MacLeod; Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association
Subject:           Objection to Agricultural Protection Area near Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 3:40:18 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baun:

As a concerned home owner in Emigration Oaks, I am writing to object strongly to Ryan
Leick’s Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in our immediate vicinity.
See File # OAM 2025 – 001470.

My concerns regarding the Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area are as follows:

1. There would be enormous potential for a negative Environmental Impact, esp
contamination of Freeze Creek and our precious ground water by fertilizers, farm animal
waste and the introduction of non-native plants and animals.
2. Wildfire danger would certainly increase esp. without in/out access for fire fighting
equipment and crews.
3. An access road would have to be built along Freeze Creek, destroying one of the
most popular, local hiking trails/areas
4. Increased traffic through Emigration Oaks for construction, operation and employee
traffic would destroy the tranquility of the area and cause increased upkeep costs for
our roads.
5. It would irreversibly alter the Character of Emigration Canyon and particularly that
of Emigration Oaks. Emigration Canyon and Emigration Oaks does not have any other
agricultural areas. Most of it is purely residential with access for all to recreate and enjoy
being outdoors. Emigration Oaks specifically is a peaceful residential area where people
live to enjoy nature, the proximity to wildlife/birds and the tranquility that comes from
living outside of the city.

These are just some of the reasons why this Proposal needs to be rejected. I am sure
there are many more and I hope the Powers that be will agree!!

Sincerely,
Annette MacIntyre

Annette MacIntyre MD, FRCPC
status to a parcel that is already difficult to access and environmentally sensitive could
undermine the intent of FCOZ and open the door to land uses that the County has explicitly
sought to restrict.



For these reasons, I respectfully urge the City Council to reject this application for an
Agricultural Protection Area. The risks to traffic, safety, water quality, wildfire resilience, and
compliance with FCOZ protections far outweigh any potential benefit.

Thank you for your consideration of my comments.

JP Slavinsky


Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
Should he prevail in the suit against the Oaks, SLC and ECC, then perhaps it would make
more sense to grant the APA. But, granting an APA now might actually aid Mr Leick in his
lawsuit. And that would be a tragedy. I know of no one in the Oaks or the canyon that
supports a road, a bridge, and a farm in upper Freeze Creek. And once the road goes in,
the value of the property skyrockets and it’s just another development, in what once was a
beautiful place.

Thanks for your consideration,

Herman Post

Emigration Canyon, UT
From:              Edwin McGough
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Paul Brown; Mike McHugh; Edwin McGough
Subject:           Opposition letter to Ryan Leick"s application for an Agricultural Protection Area file#OAM2025-001470
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 12:54:57 PM




[You don't often get email from                                     Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Diana Baun or To Whom it May Concern

I am writing this letter to express my opposition to granting Ryan Leick an Agricultural Protection Area Permit for
his 40 acres of land.
I am deeply concerned that Ryan Leick’s plans will have a dramatic impact on the way of life of the Emigration
Oaks residents. The possibility of the changes that can occur with the APA are severe. The increase in traffic from
more vehicles and employees as well as the possible construction of a road to access his property would change the
whole complexion of the area. Mr Leick has already demonstrated he has little regard for the wishes of the residents
of the OAKS by repeatedly trespassing on our property. When confronted while trespassing he threatens the
neighborhood with making our roads and trails public.

Of even more concern is the impact on our water supply and the environment. He has no permit for a well and will
take water from Freeze Creek Stream which is already diminished because of the long standing drought which has
noticeably affected the downstream flow. The wildlife for decades have used the canyon for their normal movement
and his proposed developments would disrupt this and not improve things as he suggests. We have already found
evidence of his burning materials in a barrel with no means of fire control. He has internal combustion engines in
his chipper and ATV with no means of controlling a fire from sparks from these engines.

For decades the residents have enjoyed the trails and is one of the reasons people live in the Oaks. Leick’s APA
would most likely compromise the experience both by route diversion and changing the experience from woodlands
to farming.

Based on approximately five years experience with Mr. Leick I strongly recommend that no APA be granted for Mr.
Leick’s 40 acres.


Sincerely,
Edwin McGough

Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:               Rod Smith
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to agricultural protection area application
Date:               Wednesday, September 24, 2025 8:23:27 PM




[You don't often get email from                            . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Ms. Baun:

I am writing to oppose the agricultural protection area (APA) application for parcel 10-20-400-002. I am a resident
of Emmigration Canyon, and I routinely use the area that would be affected by this application. I am concerned that
use as requested in the application will increase wildfire risk, threaten our water supply, and introduce invasive
plants into the area. Moreover, this area has no prior history of agricultural use and is inappropriate for an
agricultural protection area designation.

This property owner has initiated litigation against my neighborhood association, Salt Lake City, and our local water
district seeking access over our private roads to access his recently purchased, landlocked parcel. This effort to
obtain an APA designation is a blatant attempt to secure his desired land uses in a way that he could not otherwise
obtain through litigation and should be denied on that basis alone.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Mark Smith

Emmigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:               Amanda Weeks
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to Agricultural Protection Area by Ryan Leich
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 9:43:57 AM




[You don't often get email from                             . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

>> To the Council,
>>
>> I have read the application and the statute that Mr Leich is attempting to use to circumvent restrictions he feels
he has on his property.
>>
>> The Agricultural Protection Area was not designed for the purpose Mr. Leich is proposing and was inherently
designed to protect farmers. Mr Leich is attempting to bypass the previously known restrictions he has on his
property and impinge on the rights of neighboring property owners.

>> I strongly urge the council to deny this application as if allowed it would be a very terrible precedent and send a
negative message that someone can merely make up information to get what they want at the expense of others’
rights.

Regards,
Amanda Weeks
From:               Howard Weeks
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to Agricultural Protection Area by Ryan Leich
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 12:09:09 PM




[You don't often get email from                          . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

To the Council,

I have read the application and I have read the statue that Mr Leich is attempting to use to circumvent restrictions he
feels he has on his property.

The Agricultural Protection Area is inherently designed to protect farmers. Mr Leich is attempting to shoe horn in
his property under the guise of agriculture. This is a blatant attempt to get around the previous known restrictions he
had on his property.
It is like when millionaires attempted to abuse the tax code to write off “ranches” when they were, in reality,
vacation homes.

I strongly urge the council to deny this application as it sends a horrible message that anyone can make up
information to try to get their way.

Thank you

Howard Weeks
Resident Emigration Canyon
      hobby that a true agricultural endeavor. Also please note that the work that petitioner
      has done to date was done violating the property rights of the Emigration Oaks
      homeowners. The petitioner has consistently avoided being transparent and acted in
      bad faith not just with the Emigration Oaks homeowners but also with Salt Lake County
      agencies that have inquired about the petitioner’s actions to date.

   4. Community Input and Transparency
      The petitioner purchased the parcel in question knowing it was landlocked. To date he
      has trespassed, encouraged others to trespass, threatened the Emigration Oaks HOA,
      misled county officials, and has tried multiple approaches to unlock the parcel at the
      expense not just the Emigration Oaks HOA, but everyone that gets water from the
      Emigration Oaks. While I do not think that APA should be granted as requested, I also do
      not trust that the petitioner won’t exceed the boundaries that application would grant if
      approved as he has done to date.

The Agricultural Protection Area designation was intended to shield genuine agricultural
operations from encroaching urban development—not to serve as a blanket exemption from
oversight in mixed-use or residential areas. In this case, the balance between agricultural
preservation and community well-being clearly tips in favor of denying the application.

Thank you for considering my perspective. I respectfully request that the Department deny
the proposed APA application and encourage the applicant to work with the community on
solutions that respect both agricultural interests and residential quality of life.



Sincerely,

Chris Colleran
Sincerely yours,
Bernard van Ginkel
is in the best interest of our community, our water resources, and the preservation of the canyon’s natural
environment to protect the indigenous forest in Freeze Creek Canyon.



Thank you for your time and thoughtful consideration.



Sincerely,


Andrew Smith, MD, MS

Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:               Lynne Kerr
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Proposed agricultural area in Emigration Canyon
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 11:55:19 AM




[You don't often get email from                           Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

I am writing against the proposal to create an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon.    I am very
worried that the proposal would affect our water supply and our wild areas in terms of our mountain animals (birds,
deer, elk, moose, raccoons, etc.). We are already at risk of wildfires here and this project would increase the danger
to Emigration Oaks and the surrounding foothills. New roads would also impact our mountain home, Emigration
Oaks, in terms of traffic, but even worse it would put a road where currently there are only amazing hiking trails.

Thank you very much for your attention.

Lynne Kerr


'
As a resident of Emigration Canyon (specifically Emigration Oaks subdivision) I have grave
concerns about this proposal.

First, I do not believe the area in question meets the criteria to be designated an agricultural
protected zone based on UDFA 17-41-305 Criteria to be Applied in Evaluating a Proposal for
Creation of a Protection Area.

1. Whether or not the land is currently being used for agricultural production.
This area is landlocked primary forest. It is not currently zoned or used for any substantive
agricultural production. Is tapping 25 maple trees sufficient to be considered cultivation of
useful plants and animals with reasonable expectation of profit? Was any significant amount of
maple syrup collected, processed or sold? I ask the same question of the native fruit harvest, and
production from whatever bees are currently there. I hope the people evaluating this proposal
will answer these questions by touring the property and seeing for themselves whether any
reasonable person would deem it a farm or agrotourism site. All other activities you are being
asked to consider are proposed and or planned.

2 Whether or not the land is zoned for agricultural use.
Emigration canyon is not an agriculture zone.

3 Whether or not the land is viable for agriculture production

It is currently not zoned for agricultural use. The mountainous arid semi desert climate, poor
rocky soil and elevations in excess of 6000 feet make it extremely challenging to establish new
growth. New plants require continuous support. I live below the property in question and my
experience has been that even with irrigation, weeding and a dog on site to deter animals, new
plants are generally eaten, or die from inability to establish a root system. The ground quickly
becomes hard and dry leaving a place for invasive species to establish themselves. I am
concerned that the proposed changes to the topography and biodiversity will have unforeseen
consequences to the complex and fragile ecosystem which has developed in such a harsh
growing environment.

There is no sewer, road access or electricity available at the property making most of the
proposed activities impossible. The only way to transport human waste, lumber, or other produce
to or from this land is through miles of trail or helicopter. The property owner has repeatedly
been denied permission to access this land through private property as well as Salt Lake City
Public Utilities watershed lands. He is currently suing Salt Lake City, The City of Emigration
Canyon and the residents of Emigration Oaks for rights to build a road through their property. I
mention this to demonstrate that as the situation currently exists the property is not viable for
agricultural production or Argo tourism. It seems likely that he is using this application to gain
credence to his claim that the property is a farm and as such has the right to access private roads
and build a road through private property.

4 The extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvement.
Agrotourism-is not currently feasible. There is no electricity, sewer system or road access to the
property. How will people get there, where will they park, what bathroom will they use?

Risks to health and safety

I have many concerns about the risks to health and safety posed by the proposals outlined in
Mr. Leick’s website freezecreek.org. Regarding the silviculture practices he plans to
implement he states, “There is insufficient research evaluating these practices” This
statement coupled with the many illustrative photographs which are not from even
remotely similar ecosystems leads me to believe that he plans to experiment on the land
within our watershed. For example, there are several photographs of PawPaw. This plant is
not a native species and likely will not grow at 6000 feet in an alpine environment.

Here are some examples of proposed activities and my concerns.

Using pigs, goats and chickens to clear vegetation and spread fertilizer. All three of these
animals can be dangerous to the watershed because they can carry pathogens such as E
coli and Salmonella which can contaminate our drinking water. Waste from these animals
can lead to elevated nitrite levels in drinking water. This can cause methemoglobinemia in
infants which can be deadly. Excess nitrogen from fertilization will run off into the freeze
creek watershed and may cause algae blooms. Goats have been in use in the canyon to
clear vegetation and in my experience even with constant supervision of a human, herding
dogs and physical fencing frequently escape. They eat absolutely everything in their path
leaving the ground wide open to invasive species such as white top and myrtle spurge. With
no electricity, road access or sewage system in place husbandry of these animals would be
impossible. All three of these species can be difficult to contain and can become feral.
Homeowners in the canyon are generally not permitted to keep these animals. I assume
these are just a few of the reasons. Finally introducing these animals into the habitat of
predators such as coyote, mountain lion, bobcat and bears will surely change their natural
hunting habits and could lead to an increase in human, wildlife and pet interactions. (note
the presence of these animals on the property is clearly documented in trail cam footage
on the freezecreek.org website).


Fire
The building of new structures in the absence of water or access by ﬁre crews poses a
serious ﬁre risk to the surrounding area. In 2007 a ﬁre started during construction of the ﬁre
station when construction workers using grinders on concrete and rebar accidently ignited
dry grass in the area. The current and future plans outlined involve use of gas generator,
chain saws and other construction equipment. Timber has already been cut and left on the
ground in the area. This poses an increase in ﬁre risk. Finally, this application includes pile
burning. Terrifying and highly unlikely to be approved. I would like to request that the
application if approved by modiﬁed to exclude pile burning under any circumstances.
Impacts to the environment and ecosystem
Apiary (beekeeping) can negatively impact native pollinators by increasing competition for
food resources and by spreading diseases and parasites. Unforeseen impacts of water
quality and availability on the Freeze Creek drainage have not been sufficiently explored or
mitigated. The strategy of providing water for irrigation through change application sounds
like he would be taking more water from the Freeze Creek drainage in exchange for water
rights somewhere else which would not be available to the current users. His application
also includes perennial water sources and approved wastewater handling. Obviously very
important for the quantity and quality of the water in the watershed but how would either of
these things be accomplished?


In summary I do not think this property is appropriate for the Agricultural protection area
program. This program seems to be intended to protect and preserve existing agricultural
properties from harassment and encroachment by a political subdivision unless the law
ordinance or regulation bears a direct relationship to public health and safety. This property
is not currently a farm. Many of the proposed changes to the property for the purposes of
turning it into a farm present signiﬁcant risk to the health and safety of the surrounding
community. The methods proposed have not been tried in this ecosystem. Many
assumptions have been made about the potential positive impact to the environment and
water shed but no risk assessment or proof of concept has been offered.


Thank you for considering my comments



Carolyn Lynch

Salt Lake City UT 84108
From:                Theodore Paisley
To:                  Diana Baun
Subject:             Public comment File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick
Date:                Friday, September 26, 2025 2:42:41 PM




[You don't often get email from                            Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

To: Diana Baum, City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

From: Ted Paisley,                               , SLC, UT 84108

Thank you for providing an opportunity to discuss this proposal.

I am against the proposal to allow an Agricultural Protection Area as proposed by Ryan Leick for many reasons, but
the most important to me are the following:

The risk of fire danger would increase both during the development and maintenance of the area

The use of water to grow the berry crops he describes would be large, and likely otr of preparation to use by other
resident in Emigration Canyon

The development of roads to access the the area would have a negative impact on both the current hiking trails, as
well as Emigration Oaks, as he would need to cut through and stage construction on their private roads.

Per his goal of having a destination agritourism location, that would then mean having any and all visitors travel
through what are now private roads, nullifying that designation, and significantly devaluing adjacent properties.

Thank you for your consideration.

Ted Paisley
native. Finally, he plans to graze pigs, goats and sheep on the portion of his
property above one of the HOA’s water wells. All of these plans will, of course,
require a public road to his property which does not currently exist.
More importantly, however, these plans will destroy the pristine forest in
Freeze Creek Canyon and adversely impact its environment by polluting the
water in the canyon where stock will be grazing and there is no sanitation for
the owner or his tourists. These plans also risk jeopardizing the native plants in
the canyon by choking them out by Mr. Leich’s new species of plants. These
plans will also intrude and disturb the wildlife in the canyon including moose,
deer and coyotes, with grazing animals and vehicles. Finally, these plans will
increase the risk of wildfire danger and operations in the canyon. Mr. Leich has
already placed an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) on his property, (apparently by a
helicopter drop) and if he drives an ATV through or parks on dry grass creates a
significant risk. That likelihood increases with hot, dry, and windy weather in
Utah’s climate.
For all these reasons, and many others you may hear, Mr. Leick’s APA should be
denied.
Sincerely,
CARLIE CHRISTENSEN
 Robert J. Lilieholm and Charles J. Fausold”
(https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?
article=2558&context=extension_curall/)

“Agricultural Protection Areas In Utah, one or more contiguous agricultural producers
can petition their county to create an agricultural protection area encompassing their
lands. This special designation must be of a minimum size (determined by the
county), and exempts farmers from farm-related nuisance complaints by nearby
residents.”

He recently lost an application to have his property designated a “Lot of Record” with
historical road access (https://propertyrights.utah.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2024/04/280-AO-Ryan-Leick-Amended-Advisory-Opinion-12-28-
2023.pdf ) it appears that he may now looking for protection from regulations, and
complaints from neighbors by establishing an APA. This is a very tenuous pretext
and should be resisted. In one of his earlier filings he claimed that there is existing
access to the property on a "jeep road". I have been up and down the Freeze Creek
trail hundreds of times, and there is no way an ordinary jeep could go up this trail in
its present configuration. The trail is too narrow and rocky. There were no bridges
over the steep ravine and the creek until about 10 years ago when the Boy Scouts
installed them. This would appear to be a specious argument.

Additionally, opening up the area to livestock would threaten the water which we all
depend on. Increased activity would significantly increase the risk of fire in the area,
which could be catastrophic.

Please do not let this proceed.


Jim Macintyre
From:
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:29:05 AM




[You don't often get email from                             . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

It has been brought to my attention that Ryan Leick would like to build a farm up Freeze Creek in Emigration. I am
a resident of Emigration oaks. I cannot understand how he could build a road up private property, plant non-Maurice
plants and then have pigs that will contaminate our water.
I am vehemently opposed to this. Please consider my opinion.

Meghan Higgins
Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

Dear Ms. Baun,

I have lived in Emigration Oaks since 2002 at                           . I am a daily user of
the trails in our neighborhood. I have hiked the Freeze Creek trail, that now crosses Mr.
Leick’s property, long before I moved to Emigration Oaks with friends who lived in the
neighborhood. That trail was well-established even then. I know that trail like the back of
my hand and cannot imagine this steep, rocky canyon to be much other than a wild, natural
environment, with very limited recreational uses. The negative impacts of trying to make
this agricultural land are vast.

Implications
   1. Development of a road to access the land for agriculture production. Mr. Leick knew
      this property was landlocked when he bought it—without a road to access it. Even
      though he tried to get access through Emigration Oaks property to build a road by
      claiming his property as a “lot-of-record,” the Office of the Property Rights
      Ombudsman and the MSD have said, “No.” (See Advisory Opinion 280.) After many
      visits to the area around Freeze Creek, the only feasible access I can see would
      greatly impact property of some Emigration Oak Property owners. And, if built in the
      wrong place, it could greatly affect the ﬂow of Freeze Creek itself.
   2. Water quality and quantity of the Freeze Creek watershed. The little bit of water that
      is available in Freeze Creek year-round seems unsustainable if the addition of land
      for agricultural use is added to the mix.. It concerns me that his “farming” operation
      may take up a vast quantity of the limited water supply in this watershed, whom
      many in Emigration Canyon rely on for drinking water, especially if he intends to
      harvest and grow timber.
   3. Plans for timber production. If one hikes in this area, one would note that the canyon
      is steep, rocky and narrow, with very few quality trees for use as timber. There is a
      small patch of coniferous trees that may be appropriate to harvest. However, once
      that small harvest takes place, it will take many years to grow another forest worthy
      of timber cutting. To make such a business proﬁtable, I would guess it would take a
      lot of additional water and nutrients to get the trees to grow quickly.
   4. Plans for proﬁtable sugar production. There are two native Utah tree species that
      can produce sugar: The Bigtooth Maple (a.k.a. Canyon Maple) and the Boxelder. A
      recommendation from Utah State University, is that maples less than 10 inches
      diameter should not be taped because of the long-term sustainability concerns if
   the trees are too small. We have Canyon Maples in our yard that are 23+ years old
   and are still too small to tap for sugar production if we care about their health. I
   haven’t measured, but I’ll be willing to bet that many on the trees on Mr. Leick’s
   property are not much larger than ours. If he is serious about sugar production, he
   will need to provide more water and nutrients for those trees. According to American
   Society for Horticultural Science, Utah’s arid climate has signiﬁcantly lower annual
   precipitation, which affects sap yield and requires supplemental watering to
   support the trees’ health, especially during prolonged dry spells. Mr. Leick already
   has some type of plastic piping strung throughout the trees on his portion of this
   steep canyon. I’m not sure what he is attempting to do with this piping; perhaps
   gather sap. He also claims he has already sold some of the syrup. Is he paying taxes
   on this revenue?
5. Agri-tourism on this property is also a desire of Mr. Leick’s. Does this mean he will
   be using the roads in Emigration Oaks to deliver his tourist to his property. Currently,
   our HOA receives about $400,000 a year from residents for annual road
   maintenance. This covers road repairs and snowplowing. If Mr. Leick gets the county
   to turn the roads in Emigration Oaks from private to public, will the county be willing
   to cover the $400,000 per year? How does he propose to handle human waste from
   an agri-tourism business?
6. Will Mr. Leick be able to have a “reasonable expectation of proﬁt?” Will he meet
   speciﬁc annual per-acre production values as set by the Utah Tax Commission? Can
   he demonstrate that the land has been in qualifying agricultural use the previous
   two consecutive years to qualify as agricultural status in Utah under the Greenbelt
   Act? According to the map on Utah SGID website (opendata.gis.utah.gov) I see very
   limited land in mountainous areas in Utah that have the designation of Agricultural
   Protection Area status. The few I see are probably being used for mining south of
   Toole. The majority of APAs seem to be in more reasonable areas where agricultural
   production is happening. I don’t understand why he is trying to make this fragile
   piece of land his dream of being a hobby farmer. There seems to be better areas to
   do such business.
7. I noticed on a hike today that Mr. Leick has already posted signs that his property
   has APA status. Is this true? Can he post signs like this before getting approval?
8. If given APA status on this property, it seems to afford Mr. Leick a lot of protection
   from regulations by any entity. This is very troubling considering what he is hoping to
   do on this property. I believe any landowner trying to do business, such as Mr. Leick
   is attempting to on this property should have more oversight, not less.
I cannot believe that Mr. Leick’s dream will add much to the local agricultural economy,
nor will his dream to conserve or protect this land as is the purpose of an APA. It is a
fragile environment that needs our respect not to destroy it by trying to make a pittance
of proﬁt off it.

Respectfully,
Starleen Wood
From:               Sharon McGough
To:                 Diana Baun
Cc:                 Sharon McGough; paul brown
Subject:            Ryan Leick"s proposal to create agricultural development in Emigration Canyon
Date:               Friday, September 19, 2025 11:53:45 AM




[You don't often get email from                                         . Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Diane Baun and to whom it might also concern,

        I am a long-term resident of Emigration Oaks. I am very concerned about Ryan Leick’s proposal for creating
an agricultural area that directly impacts the main hiking trail in our community. He has been blatantly trespassing,
building structures and ignoring the private property boundaries for a few years now. We have all been concerned
about his lack of regard for our community's watershed and also the fire danger he presents when he camps on his
property.
        Perhaps my biggest objection to Mr. Leick’s proposal is the impact he would have on the wildlife here. We
amicably coexist with Mule deer, moose, bobcats, coyotes, raptors and many interesting reptiles. His development
of this area would sadly disrupt the safety and tranquility that both animals and residents have enjoyed for decades.
        As we have all observed Mr. Leick’s disregard for our community, and because we have tried to talk to him
face to face, without any positive outcome, many of us believe that he poses a real threat to our environment.


Best person regards,




Sharon McGough
Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
dbaun@msd.utah.gov

Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700



Dear Ms. Baun,

We would like to express our strong opposition to the Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
application from Mr. Ryan Leick. We oppose this application for many reasons, and we
expand upon some of the reasons below.

First, Mr. Leick does not have permission from the three landowners (Emigration
Improvement District (EID), Salt Lake City (SLC), and Emigration Oaks Property Owners
Association (EOPOA)) whose property would need to be crossed to get to his landlocked
property. He was aware before he purchased the property that it was landlocked and that
access rights would probably not be granted; he chose to proceed with the purchase with
that knowledge. He has asked these entities for property access, and they have all denied
these requests. Each of these entities are aware of the risks associated with granting an
easement to him for this property, and have wisely, in our opinion, denied these requests.
We suspect that he is pursuing an APA designation to force agreements on access, which
could give him legal rights that are realistically inappropriate for a property in a Well
Protection zone and in an area with slopes that exceed the generally respected road
construction guidelines to not exceed 10% slope.

Mr. Leick’s stated reason for purchasing the property was “as a retreat for family recreation”
(see p. 13 of 140 in his APA application). An Agricultural Protection Area designation is
absolutely not needed for him and his family to recreate on his property. He and his family
can access his parcel by walking the 3 mile trail from the parking area on Pinecrest Road.
The address on Pinecrest Rd is the address on the Beekeeper license and on the legal
description for taxation purposes, which also supports the idea that he has no access
rights through the private property of EOPOA, EID and SLC. By pursuing an APA
designation, it appears that Mr. Leick is trying to secure legal protections for which he
would not otherwise be granted on a recreational property, which would make it extremely
di icult for Emigration Canyon City, Salt Lake County, Emigration Improvement District,
and Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, all of whom could have current or
future issues with his proposed land use, to regulate what is done on his property and
detrimental e ects on others nearby.

Mr. Leick states in the Site and Vicinity section (page 132 of 140) “The surrounding
properties are also zoned FR-20 and FCOZ. The only existing structures in the immediate
neighborhood are Emigration Improvement District well facilities approximately ½ mile
south of the property.” This is factual incorrect, with two homes in EOPOA located adjacent
to the EID property, and two others very close by, and many others in the near vicinity. On
page 133 in the application: “There is no requirement to notify adjacent property owners for
permitted use applications.” This is problematic because there are many uses that would
negatively impact neighbors and users of culinary water from the EID wells.

Mr. Leick purchased the landlocked property as a family recreation area but that
purportedly is not the intended use at this time. Now, he is trying to change the use to be a
hobby farm based on “historic use” of the property. He claims, in Goal 2.2, to “Enhance
Community Connectedness and sense of place. Documented historic use (sheep grazing
and livestock watering dating to ~1900) and ongoing stewardship reinforce Emigration’s
heritage and identity.” None of us who live in Emigration Canyon need or want a hobby farm
to appreciate the canyon for its beautiful landscape and populations of native animals. His
intention to continue the historic use of the land for grazing is an outdated use. We know for
a fact that the land in Emigration Canyon Freeze Creek drainage changed from sheep
herding to residential development in 1985 or before – at least forty years ago. The a idavit
in his APA application includes a statement from a Bertagnole family member about sheep
herding, but the document is dated 1976, which does not support a more recent use that
he appears to hint at in his justiﬁcation of restarting livestock use in the Freeze Creek
drainage. It is likely the activities proposed in the APA application would have a signiﬁcant
negative impact on culinary water for hundreds of people in Emigration Canyon.

The introduction of dozens on non-native species in a fragile environment has the potential
to negatively impact the immediate surrounding and the greater Emigration Canyon area.
Was an environmental impact study conducted? If so, we are not aware that it was ever
provided to EOPOA, EID or SLC. We have spent a lot of time and e ort over the past several
years working with the Salt Lake County Weed Coordinator locating and removing noxious
weeds in Emigration Canyon, and especially the Freeze Creek drainage. Development
upstream of the middle section of Freeze Creek, and especially the introduction of dozens
of non-native species, will increase the burden on the SL County Weed Coordinator and the
public who help with this work.

The introduction of commercial quantities of honey bees in the Freeze Creek drainage area
and the greater Emigration Canyon area could also have negative impacts on the native bee
populations. We did an extensive study of the plants found in the Freeze Creek drainage
during 2020-2021, and found about 190 species. The majority of these plants are native
species that are crucial as food sources for the native pollinators, including native bees. In
addition, one of us applied for and was granted two grants of native pollinator plants (330
plants) from the Utah Native Pollinator Plant program to increase the number of pollinator
plants in our area. This planting project was relatively successful. We also know that at
least two other families in EOPOA have applied for plants for the 2025 planting season and
at least one other family in Emigration Canyon participated in 2024 or earlier. None of us
have done this work to beneﬁt Mr. Leick’s commercial honey production plans – we have
done this work to beneﬁt the native bee populations.

Mr. Leick has built several structures on the property and currently claims that the property
is for an “agrotourism” activity. We are not aware of any of these actions being covered by
required permits. He claims to have commercially viable maple syrup production, yet
claims less than 150 gallons of sap harvested. Using a 40:1 sap to syrup conversion, this
accounts for less than 4 gallons of maple syrup. At a retail cost of about $20 per quart
(using costs available on the Smith’s Food and Drug website), his entire production is
valued at less than $160. This clearly is not commercial quantities and is unlikely to ever
be commercial quantities, as suggested in the APA guidelines. We also note that his
application does not describe sanitary facilities, even for family recreation purposes. If he
has a holding tank, how is it serviced by a septic removal service? It seems highly unlikely
that he carries human waste the required three miles to get to Pinecrest Road. If he does
not have sanitary facilities, how is human waste currently handled? His actions in this
regard should be made known to EID and mediated immediately, as appropriate.

Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, he is proposing uses in his APA application that are
not appropriate for land and roads near his property. The easements allowed in 1985 when
the land in the Freeze Creek area was transferred between the Bertagnole parties to Boyer
Company and EOPOA stated that easements were for “pedestrian tra ic; for residential
purposes and for construction and development for residential improvements and
infrastructure; and for the purpose of providing utility lines and services.” No farming or
agricultural uses were anticipated, even from the family whose family-member a idavit is
used in his APA application as support. The address used by Salt Lake County for his
parcel, 1475 Pinecrest Road, is for a location located 3 miles from his parcel. That road
cannot provide the parking that would be needed for people willing to hand carry supplies
or walk to his hobby farm for 3 miles and cannot handle the vehicular tra ic that would be
needed to construct the additional facilities that he proposes, the sta required for a hobby
farm, and clients he wishes to attract. Another option for road access is through three
private parcels, as mentioned earlier in this letter. The closest paved road, Pioneer Fork
Road, is private, and is maintained by EOPOA through dues paid wholly by the property
owners. The road maintenance budget for repairs and snow removal is a signiﬁcant portion
of the yearly budget for EOPOA. Damage done to this private road by trucks working for his
beneﬁt would be borne by people for whom no value would be forthcoming from his
agrotourism business – this is an inappropriate beneﬁt for someone who bought a
landlocked parcel for family recreation and is now looking for a way to salvage his ill-
advised purchase. Ongoing access for his potential future sta for the agrobusiness in the
APA application and for potential clients of the agrobusiness across three private parcels is
also an inappropriate beneﬁt to Mr. Leick.

Please treat his APA application for what it appears to be – an end-run around his errors in
judgment when he purchased a landlocked property for which he knew was unlikely to
have a legal easement. He appears to be trying to ﬁnd some way to force others to give him
a return on his investment at their expense. Please deny his APA application.



Sincerely,

Elizabeth and Michael Sanguinetti



Emigration Canyon

Salt Lake City, UT
Reference parcel: #10-20-400-002 owned by Mr Ryan Leick, Application for APA
Designation

                                                                        September 22, 2025

Hello Planning Commission,

We live on                          in Emigration Oaks and absolutely love living in
Emigration Canyon. As residents of Emigration Canyon and homeowners in the Emigration
Oaks community, we have recently been alerted to Mr Leick’s APA Designation application.

We respectfully request that the Planning Commission deny this application for a
multitude of reasons, which are detailed in this letter.

Mr. Leick owns a land locked property designated FR. All of the surrounding land is
designated FR. Why is this even a discussion? FR means “No” to almost any land use
beyond the current conditions of all the land surrounding his property. He may want to
change the rules, but why is it OK to do so? FR zoning is there for a reason; to keep it wild,
to preserve habitats, and to preserve watersheds. If we grant Mr. Leick this variance, why
not grant similar variances to any and all other would-be developers who come along and
see our FR lands as great money makers?

Mr Leick believes he is more entitled than the local residents here in Emigration Canyon
and is seeking any foothold he can to bully this community, Salt Lake county, and the state
of Utah into rezoning this parcel in order that he can bulldoze a road through private lands,
no matter the risk and damage it would cause to this fragile eco-system.

Mr Leick has every right to fully enjoy his parcel under its current land-locked Forestry
and Recreation (FR-20) designation.

Have provided a detailed argument against APA designation in the following Appendix
which may be helpful context as you evaluate this application.




Thank you,

Chris Tollenger

Bill Tollenger &

Sandi Crockett
At a high level, our objection to this application is because:

   •   Doesn’t comply with the requirements of the APA Act
   •   Is not compatible with local land use ordinances or long-term planning
   •   Is not appropriate based on the land’s use and surrounding development

We are very concerned about Mr Leick’s disregard for the community and recent
application for APA Designation. For example, here are a few of our community’s recent
experiences with Mr. Leick.

   •   He has frequently trespassed through Oaks Common Area without our permission
       and contrary to our direction
   •   We have seen evidence of controlled burns on his property
   •   He has installed a composting toilet on the property which is not allowed in EID’s
       source protection zone.
   •   He has expressed, in governmental filings, his intention to complete a residence of
       some kind, along with accessory structures to support research and an
       “agroforestry” project.
   •   And is seeking approval for an easement to build an access road
       through Emigration Oaks, past the EID well (source protection zone) and continuing
       up the Freeze Creek (watershed) trail to access his land-locked parcel.
   •   Not deterred by the lack of a right-of-way, he has had a helicopter drop a number of
       loads of supplies to his property, including a large ATV, to advance his plans




           Facts & Legal Context

   •   The parcel is 40 acres, addressed as 1475 N Pinecrest Road, in Emigration Canyon.

   •   Its current zoning is “Forestry & Recreation” – FR-20.

   •   The property is subject to the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) under
       Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code.

   •   The applicant is seeking APA status, which under Utah law would bring with it
       certain protections to agricultural practices (e.g. nuisance defenses, limits on
       certain regulation changes, etc.)
           Arguments Against APA Designation for This Parcel



1. Zoning and Overlay Zone Conflict / Land Use Incompatibility

   •   FR-20 (Forestry & Recreation) zoning has specific expectations about forest
       conservation, recreation, natural open space, and limited types of development.
       This APA would impose agricultural practices that conflict with those expectations
       or what the overlay zone allows.

   •   The Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) places restrictions (or added
       requirements) to preserve scenic, environmental, watershed, wildfire, access, etc.
       Granting APA status to this parcel owner will limit the ability of local authorities to
       enforce some overlay requirements, or to regulate new agricultural practices in
       ways consistent with FCOZ goals.

   •   This parcel is in an area designated for wilderness, recreation, open space, or other
       non-agricultural uses (or for limited development), and this APA conflicts with that
       intended use.

2. Access and Infrastructure Limitations

   •   According to Advisory Opinion 280, access to the parcel is via an unimproved single-
       track dirt trail (Freeze Creek Trail) in a watershed area, which crosses property
       owned by Emigration Oaks and Salt Lake County. This suggests limited legal access,
       possibly seasonal or unreliable.

3. Viability of Agricultural Use

   •   As this parcel is land-locked with an extremely rugged topography and bordering a
       watershed, the parcel does not currently support, or could support in the future,
       consistent, economically viable agricultural use at the scale or intensity that APA
       designations are meant to protect.

   •   Sheep grazing and watering have not been allowed in Emigration Canyon since the
       early 1900’s. A lot has changed in 125 years and attempts to revert this parcel back
       to a historical land use in this now ecologically fragile High Desert Steppe area are
       inappropriate and irresponsible.
4. Environmental, Scenic, Public Welfare, and Safety Concerns

   •   Emigration Canyon and Freeze Creek specifically, have environmental sensitivities—
       watershed issues, slope stability, wildfire risk, vegetation, wildlife habitat, scenic
       vistas. All of these will be negatively affected if agricultural operations (e.g. grazing,
       pesticide/herbicide use, water withdrawal) are introduced under APA protection,
       with fewer regulatory constraints.

   •   Fire risk: Forestry & Recreation zones are often in areas with higher wildfire risk.
       Agricultural operations may increase fire risk (e.g., machinery, dryness, storage of
       fuel, etc.). Local ordinances or overlay zones for Emigration Canyon have stricter fire
       safety or vegetation management requirements that APA status will weaken.

5. Restriction on Local Authority / Regulation

   •   One HUGE consequence of an APA is that the city or municipality cannot enact or
       enforce local laws, ordinances, or zoning changes that “unreasonably restrict” farm
       structures or practices.

   •   And means if future issues arise (e.g. odor, noise, pesticide drift, traffic, water
       usage), neighbors or local government will have limited recourse. In a place like
       Emigration Canyon, where neighbors value quiet, views, natural character, and
       environmental quality, that loss of regulatory flexibility harms the community
       welfare.

6. Potential for Conflicts with Neighboring Land Uses / Community Expectations

   •   Surrounding property owners have purchased expecting FR-20 and FCOZ standards,
       which tend to limit density, preserve natural or scenic character, etc. Altering
       expectations by adding agricultural protections will introduce uses or operations
       incongruous with neighbors.

7. Precedent & Long-Term Implications

   •   Granting APA status here will set a precedent for other parcels in Emigration
       Canyon. Over time, this will shift land use in ways the community did not foresee—
       e.g. environmental protection

   •   There will certainly be cumulative effects: multiple parcels with APA status can
       erode the power of zoning overlays or the overlay zones meant to preserve
       environmental character.
COMMENTS ON PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002
        AS AN AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA

TO:       Dave Sheffield, Manager EOPOA
            and
          Diana Baun
          City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
          dbaun@msd.utah.gov

FROM: Tim Wood

          Salt Lake City, UT 84108


After reviewing the proposal to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural
Protection Area, I have several concerns that center on three questions:

      •   Can the applicant reasonably sustain a proﬁtable agricultural operation on this 40
          acre property?
      •   Can he do so in a way that does not negatively impact ground and surface water
          quality, does not lead to undue erosion, and/or degrade our “view shed” in the
          Freeze Creek and Emigration Canyon drainages?
      •   How does the applicant intend to access his property and transport supplies and
          products to and from that parcel?

More speciﬁcally, I have the following concerns and questions.

Has the applicant prepared a credible business plan that supports the formation of a
proﬁtable agricultural enterprise on this property?

Can the applicant point to an example of an existing, proﬁtable agricultural enterprise,
similar to the one proposed (i.e. one based on sugar/syrup production from native plants,
beekeeping, etc) on a similar mountain canyon property in our county/region?

Over what years has the applicant successfully produced sugar/syrup/honey from his
property? Do the amounts produced to date indicate reasonable potential to support a
proﬁtable sugar/syrup/honey business in the future? Note that 2023 and 2024 were above-
average years for precipitation. Is the applicant conﬁdent that a viable sugar business can
be sustained through years with average and below-average precipitation?

Does the applicant propose to undertake tree harvesting and lumber production
operations on this property? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that such
operations do not harm water quality or soil quality, do not result in signiﬁcant erosion
impacting neighboring properties, and do not scar the area viewshed?

How will timber and lumber products be transported off the property in question?

Does the applicant intend to graze or water sheep or other livestock on the property in
question? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that such operations do not harm
water or soil quality, do not result in signiﬁcant erosion impacting neighboring properties,
and do not scar the area viewshed?

How will livestock be transported on and off the property in question?

Whose responsibility will it be to monitor water quality in Freeze Creek and groundwater
quality in the Freeze Creek watershed to ensure that agroforestry operations on the
property in question have not had negative impacts? Moreover, whose responsibility will it
be to enforce water quality regulations? If declines in water quality are detected, what
actions can be taken to correct the situation, and who will take them?

The property in question has the address 1475 N Pinecrest Canyon Rd. Will the applicant’s
access to the property in question be via Pinecrest Canyon Rd and not via private roads in
Emigration Oaks? If the applicant is granted access to his property via a right-of-way
through Emigration Oaks, does the EOPOA have authority to charge the applicant for use of
its roads at rates commensurate with the wear and tear likely to result from an agroforestry
business?

At present, there is no road leading into the property. Does the applicant intend to build
such a road? What is the proposed route? Which property owners will be affected by
construction of that road? What will it cost to construct that road? How will the costs of
road construction impact the proﬁtability of the proposed agroforestry operation? What
measures will be taken to ensure that construction of the road does not impact water
quality, erosion rates, views, etc. in Emigration Canyon?
received an application for the creation of an Agricultural Protection Area, and will hold a
public hearing on Tuesday, November 17, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. at the Emigration Canyon Fire
Station building at 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road. The purpose of the public hearing is to
hear public comment on and review: • The proposal to create the agriculture protection area; •
The recommendations of the Salt Lake County Advisory Committee and Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission; • Any requests for modification of the proposal and any objections to
the proposal. The proposal is open to public inspection in the office of the Emigration Canyon
Recorder (860 E. Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah) and is also available on the
Emigration Canyon public notice website. Any person affected by the establishment of the
area may, WITHIN 15 DAYS of the date of this notice, file with the Council either written
objections to the proposal or a written request to modify the proposal to exclude land from or
add land to the proposed protection area. File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage:
40 acres) Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. Underlying Zone: FR-20 Prior
to the public hearing, the proposal will be submitted to the Emigration Canyon Planning
Commission and the Salt Lake County Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board for review
and recommendations. The Emigration Canyon Planning Commission will review and make a
recommendation to the City Council at their regularly scheduled meeting to be held October 9,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. at the Emigration Canyon Fire Station building at 5025 E. Emigration
Canyon Road. Written objections, comments, or questions may be directed to Diana Baun,
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon at dbaun@msd.utah.gov or (385) 377-9466 or by mail
to: Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun, PO Box 147700, Salt Lake City, Utah
84114-7700
