                                                Agriculture Protection Area

Meeting Body: City Council                                  PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Meeting Date: November 17,          The applicant, Ryan Leick, has applied for his property at 1475 N Pinecrest
2025                                Canyon Rd (parcel ID: 10-20-400-002-0000) to be designated as the Freeze
                                    Creek Agricultural Protection Area as set forth in Utah Code 17-41-304. As
File Number & Project Type:
                                    required under section 17-41-302 of the code, written notices were sent
OAM2025-001470                      to the owners of property within 1000 feet of the subject property to allow
                                    a 15-day comment period prior to this meeting. Pursuant to 17-41-303 of
The applicant is seeking approval
                                    the code, the application has been referred to the Emigration Canyon
of an Agriculture Protection Area
                                    planning commission for recommendation to the City Council, who must
as defined in Chapter 17-41 of
                                    review and take final action within 120 days of the original date of
the Utah Code.
                                    application submittal.
Planner: Curtis Woodward,
                                    Once an agriculture protection area has been created, Section 17-41-402
Senior Planner
                                    of the state code places limits on local regulations that would affect the
Applicant: Ryan Leick               protection area:
Key Findings:                       “A political subdivision within which an agriculture protection area…
•   The process and criteria for    is created…shall encourage the continuity, development, and
    establishing an Agriculture     viability of agriculture use…within the relevant protection area by
    Protection Area are set forth   not enacting a local law, ordinance, or regulation that, unless the
    in 17-41-301 through 17-41-     law, ordinance, or regulation bears a direct relationship to public
    305 of the Utah Code.           health or safety, would unreasonably restrict:
•   17-41-303 of the code
                                    (a)       in the case of an agriculture protection area, a farm
    requires referral of the
                                    structure or farm practice;”
    application to the planning
    commission for
    recommendation.                 It further goes on to state:
•   Written report from the         “A political subdivision may not change the zoning designation of or
    planning commission to the      a zoning regulation affecting land within an agriculture protection
    city council is due within 45   area unless the political subdivision receives written approval for the
    days of receipt of the          change from all the landowners within the agriculture protection
    proposal.                       area affected by the change.”
Exhibits:

    A. Application
                                    In addition, Section 17-41-403 of the state code restricts the ability
    B. Exhibits                     of a city to use “public nuisance” provisions against a property in an
                                    agriculture protection area.


                                                APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION




                             Application number: OAM2025-001470        Date: November 17, 2025 | Page 1 of 4
There are three types of “protection area” listed under Chapter 17-41 of the state code: Agriculture,
Industrial, and Critical Infrastructure Materials. Section 17-41-305 establishes the criteria for
consideration of a protection area.

  In evaluating a proposal and in determining whether or not to create or recommend the
creation of an agriculture protection area, industrial protection area, or critical infrastructure
materials protection area, the advisory committee, planning commission, and applicable
legislative body shall apply the following criteria:
(1) whether or not the land is currently being used for agriculture production, industrial use,
    or critical infrastructure materials operations, as the case may be;
(2) whether or not the land is zoned for agriculture use, industrial use, or critical infrastructure
    materials operations, as the case may be;
(3) whether or not the land is viable for agriculture production, industrial use, or critical
    infrastructure materials operations, as the case may be;
(4) the extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvements, the extent and nature
    of existing or proposed improvements to or expansion of the industrial use, or the extent and
    nature of existing or proposed improvements to or expansion of critical infrastructure
    materials operations, as the case may be; and
(5)     (a) in the case of an agriculture protection area, anticipated trends in agricultural and
technological conditions;
(b)     in the case of an industrial protection area, anticipated trends in technological
conditions applicable to the industrial use of the land in question; or
(c)     in the case of a critical infrastructure materials protection area, anticipated trends in
technological conditions applicable to the critical infrastructure materials operations of the land
in question.

Key definitions listed in 17-41-101 of the state code include:

(2) "Agriculture production" means production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock, and
livestock products. "Agriculture production" includes the processing or retail marketing of any
crops, livestock, and livestock products when more than 50% of the processed or merchandised
products are produced by the farm operator.
(10) "Crops, livestock, and livestock products" includes:
    (a) land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of
        profit, including:
        (i) forages and sod crops;
        (ii) grains and feed crops;
        (iii) livestock as defined in Section 59-2-102;
        (iv) trees and fruits; or
        (v) vegetables, nursery, floral, and ornamental stock; or
    (b) land devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for payments or other
        compensation under a crop-land retirement program with an agency of the state or
        federal government.




                      Application number: OAM2025-001470          Date: November 17, 2025 | Page 2 of 4
                                             PUBLIC INPUT
Public comments submitted to the City Recorder will be provided to City Council as part of the Council
meeting packet.

                                                ANALYSIS
(1) Whether or not the land is currently being used for agriculture production:

The applicant’s narrative claims the following uses are currently active on the site: Sugar production,
Apiaries (bees), Pasture establishment, Agroforestry, Conservation projects, and Agritourism. (see
attached narrative and exhibits)

The definition of “agricultural production” from the applicable state code involves “the production for
commercial purposes or crops, livestock and livestock products.” While the information submitted by
the applicant indicates that certain products have been harvested and processed, the exhibits also
include statements such as “I hope to facilitate research on silviculture practices managed specifically to
minimize evapotranspiration and preserve snowpack later in the season.” Also included in the
applicant’s exhibits are conservation plan documents presumably associated with the “USDA Funded
Conservation Practices” mentioned in Exhibit 5.

(2) Whether or not the land is zoned for agriculture use:

The area is zoned Forestry and Recreation (FR-20). The applicant’s narrative points to “agriculture” being
acknowledged in the permitted use list in the FR-20 zone as evidence that the parcel is zoned for
agriculture. (pg. 2 of attached narrative)

It is important to note that the permitted use list for the FR-20 zone found in 19.12.010 of the
Emigration Canyon Code lists “Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020” as a permitted use. The
inclusion of the definition contained in section 19.04.020 in the permitted use listing was intentionally
done to specifically allow only a limited spectrum of agricultural activities in these zones, not the full
gamut of “agriculture” as more broadly defined in other codes and ordinances. This limitation on
agricultural activities in the Forestry and Recreation Zones was included in the chapter as originally
adopted in 1972 and readopted in 1974 by Salt Lake County. The steeper slopes, watershed protection
issues, fire prevention issues, wildlife habitat concerns, limited infrastructure, and substandard access
roads found in Foothill and Canyon areas contributed to the decision to include the limited definition in
the code.

(3) Whether or not the land is viable for agriculture production:

The applicant’s narrative and attached exhibits argue that the property is viable for agriculture
production. However, the exhibits contain documents that appear to be part of a “proposal” or set of
proposals for support of the applicant’s intention to show what he feels can be accomplished on the
subject property.

(4) The extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvements:

The applicant’s narrative and exhibits indicate a number of proposed site improvements, including a
shed, treehouse, bridges, observation deck, homestead barn building pad, Slovenian beehouses,




                      Application number: OAM2025-001470            Date: November 17, 2025 | Page 3 of 4
greenhouse building pad, lumber mill building pad, and access driveway in addition to the planting and
forestry conservation activity areas. The beehouses are governed by Utah Code Annotated §4-11-116.

(5) Anticipated trends in agricultural and technological conditions:

The applicant’s narrative points to best management practices regarding water efficiency, soil health,
and wildfire risk reduction. His intention is to show how forestry management practices and agricultural
production can work hand in hand in a mountain environment. Based on the exhibits submitted by the
applicant, various federal grants have been approved to enable his proposal (see Exhibits 4 and 7).



                          PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
On October 9, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission voted to recommend denial of the
application. A full report from the planning commission as set forth in the Utah Code has been provided
to the Council.




                     Application number: OAM2025-001470           Date: November 17, 2025 | Page 4 of 4
                Application for
   Agricultural Protection Area Designation
                                      Emigration Canyon, Utah



August 11, 2025



SUBJECT: PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN AGRICULTURAL
PROTECTION AREA


Dear Councilmembers,

I respectfully submit this application pursuant to UTAH CODE § 17-41-301 requesting that the
following parcel be designated as the Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA):

       Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
       Acreage: 40 acres
       Legal Description: SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Section 20, T 1N R 2E SLBM
       Agricultural Use: Agroforestry and conservation

This application is made in good faith to protect ongoing agricultural activities and to preserve the
viability of agricultural use on the property. I request that the Emigration Canyon City Council
process this application according to the procedures outlined in UTAH CODE § 17-41-302 and 303,
including referral to the Planning Commission and a statutorily required Agriculture Advisory
Board, followed by a public hearing and formal determination.

A copy of this application has been submitted to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District
CityWorks application portal as a code amendment for case management purposes. The
appropriate fee for other applications requiring Planning Commission meeting ($650) and City
Council meeting ($115) will be paid once added to the application.

Respectfully submitted,



     Leick
Ryan L
     Lei
      eick
      ei
Owner of Parcel 10-20-400-002
Required Proposal Elements (UTAH CODE § 17-41-301(2))
1) Boundaries of Proposed APA (UTAH CODE § 17-41-301(2)(a)):
    • Legal Description: SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Section 20, Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base
       & Meridian (SLBM). See Exhibit 1.
    • Total Acreage: 40 acres, more or less
    • Zoning: FR-20 (Forestry & Recreation)

2) Owners of Record & Acreage by Parcel (UTAH CODE § 17-41-301(2)(c)):
    1. Parcel 1: 10-20-400-002, 40 acres, Ryan Leick (sole owner). See Exhibit 2.

3) Limits on Types of Agricultural Production (Applicant-Elected under UTAH CODE § 17-41-301(2)(b)):

To promote compatibility and address health and safety considerations, the applicant voluntarily limits
agricultural activities within the Agricultural Protection Area (APA). This APA does not authorize
non-agricultural commercial uses, confined animal feeding operations, or activities requiring separate
approvals under municipal code; any such uses would require independent review and permitting
outside of this APA.


Description of Existing and Planned Agricultural Use
The applicant, Ryan Leick, is requesting an Agriculture Protection Area (APA) for property located in the
Forestry & Recreation (FR-20) Zone at 1475 N Pinecrest Canyon Road. The property is a conforming Lot
of Record containing 40 acres. An open FCOZ Site Plan (Exhibit 9) and narrative (Exhibit 10) propose
several accessory structures to support the proposed Conceptual Site Design (Exhibit 8).

The property is operated for agroforestry and conservation. Current and planned practices include:
    • Sugar production from maple syrup and native berries including elderberry, chokecherry,
       oregon grape, serviceberry, and thimbleberry.
    • Apiary placements in seasonally appropriate clearings with water availability and windbreaks;
    • Establishment and maintenance of pasture/native understory for soil stabilization and forage;
    • Forestry stewardship activities guided by a Forest Stewardship Plan; and
    • NRCS-supported practices implemented per technical standards.

Historic Use Context: Based on long-standing accounts and sworn testimony, the property and adjacent
side canyons in the Emigration drainage had historically been used for agricultural purposes since the
early 1900s for seasonal sheep grazing and watering. (See Exhibit 6). The property has had no other use
since this time.

Compatibility of uses of neighboring properties for agricultural production: The Salt Lake County
Assessor Parcel Map (Exhibit 1) shows the neighboring parcels are vacant, open lands. The parcel is
bordered to the north and west by U.S. Forest Service lands and to the south and east by Salt Lake City
Public Utilities watershed lands.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                          P A G E |1
Narrative Addressing Statutory Criteria (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305)
1) Current Agricultural Production (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(1)):

UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(2)(a): "Agriculture production" means production for commercial purposes of
crops, livestock, and livestock products.

UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(10): "Crops, livestock, and livestock products" includes land devoted to:
 (a) the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit, including (i)
      forages and sod crops; (ii) grains and feed crops; (iii) livestock as defined in Section 59-2-102; (iv)
      trees and fruits; or (v) vegetables, nursery, floral, and ornamental stock; or
 (b) meeting the requirements and qualifications for payments or other compensation under a crop-
      land retirement program with an agency of the state or federal government.

The parcel is in active agricultural use for sugar production (UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(a)(i)), apiaries
(UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(a)(iii)), pasture establishment (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(a)(ii)), agroforestry
(UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(a)(iv)), conservation projects (UTAH CODE § 17-41-101(b)), and agritourism
activity as defined in Section 78B-4-512 explicitly permitted under UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(4). Existing
improvements are consistent with the Forest Stewardship Plan and US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) standard practices. See Exhibits 4 and 7.

2) Zoning (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(2)):

The parcel is zoned FR-20 (Forestry & Recreation) which recognizes agricultural as a permitted use under
E.C.C. 19.12.020(B). The APA furthers the purpose of the FR zone in E.C.C. 19.12.010 by promoting
forestry and recreation (agritourism) “to the extent such development is compatible with the protection
of the natural and scenic resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations” as
well as the purpose of provisions in E.C.C. 19.02.020, to “foster the [City’s] agricultural and other
industries.” See Exhibit 11 and 12.

3) Viability for Agricultural Production (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(3)):

Site characteristics (soils, slope-adjusted aspects, canopy cover) support long-term agriculture /
agroforestry, apiary operations, and pasture/native understory. Implementation of NRCS practices and
fuels-reduction enhances the site’s productive capacity and resilience. See Exhibit 3, 4, and 8.

4) Existing/Proposed Improvements (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(4)):

Improvements focus on resource stewardship, conservation, and low-intensity native crop production.
Proposed improvements are depicted on the Conceptual Site Design, FCOZ Site Plan and corresponding
narrative as part of Permitted Use Application PER2021-000287. See Exhibits 8, 9, and 10.

5) Anticipated Trends (UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(5)(a)):

Utah’s agricultural and forestry sectors are trending toward water efficiency, soil health, and wildfire risk
reduction. The proposed APA advances these trends by investing in natural resource resiliency,
watershed protection, and fuels management that benefit adjacent lands. See Exhibits 3 and 8.

 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                             P A G E |2
Health & Safety Mitigation Plan and Best Management Practices (BMPs)
To address potential health or safety concerns, the applicant commits to the following BMPs and
compliance measures. These measures demonstrate that the APA designation will not materially be
detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare.

Wildfire & Fuels Management: Maintain defensible space appropriate to the wildland–urban interface;
conduct fuels reduction, ladder fuel removal, and slash treatment consistent with state and county
guidance; obtain any required permits for pile burning or other operations.

Erosion & Stormwater: Install and maintain erosion controls and stabilize/revegetate disturbed areas
promptly.

Water Quality & Storage: Manage water withdrawals and storage consistent with applicable water
rights and manufacturer/system specifications; protect riparian areas and maintain stream setbacks.

Apiary Safety: Site hives away from property lines and public ways; provide perennial water sources;
manage for temperament and swarming per best practices.

Noise, Light, and Hours: Conduct activities during daylight hours where feasible; no amplified sound or
nighttime lighting is proposed.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                         P A G E |3
Drinking Water Source Protection BMP Plan (Exhibit 5)

The property is within a Drinking Water Source Protection Zone. Under E.C.C. 9.25 (Restricted
Uses) and 9.25.110 (Review of Applications), the applicant has submitted DWSP BMPs and any
engineered/construction controls to EID (Exhibit 5) and commits to implement all approved
measures.

Proposed Restricted Uses: sugarbush (agriculture experimental station), apiary, farm maintenance
garage, fruit/vegetable storage & packing, greenhouse/nursery, logging/lumber processing.

Nonstructural BMPs:

No-till and contour practices; drip irrigation and rainwater harvesting; vegetative buffer/filter
strips; organic-compliant inputs (no synthetic herbicides/pesticides/fertilizers stored or applied);
water-quality monitoring and annual audits.

Structural BMPs:

Channel/grade controls (BDAs/PALS; CPS 584/643/410); streambank and slope bioengineering;
fuel breaks; erosion controls on access; SPCC secondary containment; approved wastewater
handling.

Use-Specific Highlights:

   •   Sugarbush (CPS E612F): contour organic practices; drip rainwater systems; manage water
       rights for irrigation via change application as applicable.
   •   Apiary: UDAF-licensed; organic apiculture standards; oxalic acid as organic miticide; native
       forage; erosion control around hives.
   •   Garage: SPCC containment; off-site disposal; indoor non-permeable pads; spill reporting
       protocol.
   •   Storage/packing: sanitation; controlled chemical storage; packed bed filtration or permitted
       alternative; compost organic waste.
   •   Greenhouse/nursery: closed-loop irrigation; organic inputs; soil testing.
   •   Logging/lumber: forest practices plan compliance; riparian buffers; selective harvest to
       basal targets; wood waste to compost/biochar.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                      P A G E |4
Code and General Plan Consistency

E.C.C. 19.02.020 states that the zoning ordinance is enacted to promote the public welfare, support
small-scale economic opportunities, safeguard people, wildlife, water, and the natural landscape,
ensure safe development, and foster the [City’s] agricultural and other industries. Emigration
Canyon’s General Plan establishes character areas, including Open Space, and sets goals to preserve
ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open space; protect watershed quality;
manage wildfire risk; and maintain the canyon’s rural character. This APA advances the Emigration
Canyon Code and General Plan goals by keeping the land in long-standing, low-intensity agricultural
use and by implementing resource-protection practices.

Alignment with General Plan Goals

Land Use (Chapter 2)

   x   Goal 2.1 – Preserve the culture, identity, and character of the built environment.
       The APA keeps the site in low-intensity agricultural use instead of urban intensification,
       maintaining the canyon’s rural character.

   x   Goal 2.2 – Enhance community connectedness and sense of place.
       Documented historic use (sheep grazing and livestock watering dating to ~1900) and
       ongoing stewardship reinforce Emigration’s heritage and identity.

   x   Goal 2.3 – Preserve and enhance ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors,
       and open space.
       Designation protects an Open Space-mapped property and commits to NRCS forestry/fuels,
       habitat, and erosion mitigation practices that conserve viewsheds and ecological functions.

   x   Goal 2.4 – Preserve and enhance existing commercial activities.
       The APA supports small-scale, place-appropriate agriculture rather than introducing
       incompatible intensity.

Environment (Chapter 5)

   x   Goals 5.1–5.4 – Clean air; healthy watershed; natural areas; balanced human–nature
       relationships.
       The Drinking Water Source Protection (DWSP) BMP plan (non-structural and structural
       measures), stewardship forestry, and riparian buffers directly advance watershed
       protection and natural area conservation while minimizing off-site impacts.

Resilience & Infrastructure (Chapter 6)

   x   Goals 6.3–6.4 – Mitigate and adapt to hazards (wildfire, erosion, climate).
       Fuel breaks, forest stand improvement, erosion controls, and access stabilization are
       integral to the APA and align with the Plan’s hazard-mitigation emphasis.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                      P A G E |5
Open Space Character Area Harmony

The Open Space character area identifies lands with high ecological and scenic value and sets
expectations for conservation-oriented, low-intensity use. The parcel’s proposed agriculture
conservation uses, forestry stewardship, habitat work, watershed protection, and apiaries preserve
those values while avoiding development patterns that would fragment open space or burden
infrastructure.

Work Program & Key Recommendations (Plan Cross-References)

   x   Preserve ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open space: APA
       designation with conservation practices.

   x   Protect watershed quality and ensure sustainable water use: DWSP BMPs, spring
       protection, channel/grade stabilization, and compliant water management.

   x   Prepare for and mitigate hazards (wildfire, erosion): Fuels reduction, fuel breaks,
       erosion and stormwater controls, and monitoring.

Alignment with Emigration Canyon Code 19.02.020

   x   Fosters agriculture. The APA permanently prioritizes low-intensity, place-appropriate
       agricultural production, agroforestry, apiaries, native pasture/understory and implements
       NRCS conservation practices. This squarely serves the Code’s directive to foster the City’s
       agricultural industry.

   x   Protects people, wildlife, water, and landscape. The proposal adopts a Drinking Water
       Source Protection (DWSP) BMP plan (non-structural and structural measures), bio-
       engineered channel/grade controls, erosion control, and noxious-weed controls directly
       aligning with protection of water resources and the natural environment.

   x   Secures safety from fire and other dangers. Forest stewardship (selective thinning, fuel
       breaks, slash treatment) and WUI-appropriate measures reduce ignition potential and
       improve emergency resilience, advancing the Code’s fire-safety purpose.

   x   Supports small-scale economic opportunity without urbanization. The APA enables
       working land income at a scale compatible with canyon character and consistent with the
       Code’s support for small-scale economic opportunities.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                        P A G E |6
Owner Certification




FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION   P A G E |7
Evaluation Matrix (Agriculture Advisory Board / Planning Commission Use)

Criterion (UTAH CODE §        Record Evidence (Exhibit)     Suggested Finding
17-41-305)
(1) Current agricultural      Ex. 3, 4, and 7               Met: Property is in active
production                                                  agriculture use
                                                            (sugar/syrups; NRCS
                                                            conservation practices;
                                                            forestry stewardship;
                                                            agritourism).
(2) Zoning                    Ex. 11 and 12                 Met: FR-20 compatible with
                                                            “raising of crops” under
                                                            E.C.C. 19.04.200 agriculture
                                                            definition and E.C.C.
                                                            19.02.020 purpose.
(3) Viability of land for     Ex. 3 – Soils and Water       Met: Site characteristics and
agricultural production       (page 9). Ex. 4 and 8.        conservation/stewardship,
                                                            designs support viable
                                                            long-term production.
(4) Extent and nature of      Ex. 8, 9, and 10              Met: Improvements are
existing/proposed                                           stewardship-oriented and
improvements                                                mitigate health/safety risks.
(5)(a) Anticipated trends     Ex. 3 and 8                   Met: Trends favor
in agricultural and                                         water-efficient, perennial
technological conditions                                    agroforestry with fuels
                                                            reduction benefits.
Other relevant factors        DWSPZ BMP: Ex. 5              Met: Record includes
(health & safety)             Water/Soil: Ex. 4             specific BMPs to prevent
                              Fuel Reduction: Ex. 3         material injury to public
                              WUI-compliance: Ex. 10        health/safety.
                              Historic preservation Ex. 6




FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                   P A G E |8
Incorporated Exhibits (Full Text Attached Separately)
Exhibit 1 — Salt Lake County Assessor Parcel Map

Map sheet showing parcel 10-20-400-002 location, outline, approximate acreage, and surrounding
parcels/roads within Emigration Canyon.

Use in record: Establishes location and general size; supports the boundaries disclosure in UTAH
CODE § 17-41-301(2)(a) and facilitates creation of the 1,000-ft Class B notice buffer for § 17-41-
302 noticing.

Exhibit 2 — Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office Parcel Ownership Record

Recorder printout for parcel 10-20-400-002 (legal description: SE ¼ of SE ¼ of Sec 20, T1N R2E
SLBM), owner of record (Ryan Leick), tax ID, and any pertinent vesting details.

Use in record: Satisfies the owners of record & parcel/acreage requirement in UTAH CODE § 17-
41-301(2)(a)–(c); supports the Findings of Fact regarding application completeness and
ownership.

Exhibit 3 — Freeze Creek Forest Stewardship Plan

Prepared by Utah DNR (FFSL, Wasatch Front Area). Covers soils, water/springs, wildlife habitat,
stand conditions, wildfire history, invasive species management, and a recommended
implementation/monitoring schedule. Provides the technical basis for selective thinning, fuels
reduction, access management, and riparian protection.

Use in record: Supports UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(1), (3), and (4) (current/proposed agricultural
production, viability, and improvements).

Exhibit 4 — USDA NRCS Schedule of Operations

USDA-NRCS EQIP/CSP schedule (Farm 1179, Tract 10780) including CPS 666 (Forest Stand
Improvement), 315 (Herbaceous Weed Treatment), 645 (Upland Wildlife Habitat Mgmt), 584
(Channel Bed Stabilization), 410 (Grade Stabilization Structures), and 643 (Restoration of
Rare/Declining Communities – BDAs/PALS), with timing and performance metrics through 2028.

Use in record: Demonstrates ongoing, funded conservation agriculture and a time-bound work
plan consistent with BMPs; supports § 17-41-305(1) and (4).

Exhibit 5 — EID March 2025 Board Report (03/20/2025)

EID guidance and board direction for Drinking Water Source Protection (DWSP) in Emigration
Canyon, identifying Restricted Uses (e.g., sugarbush/sap, apiary, farm maintenance garage,
fruit/vegetable storage & packing, greenhouse/nursery, logging/lumber) and the ECC 9.25.110
process for submitting/approving BMPs and engineered controls.


 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                     P A G E |9
Use in record: Documents DWSP compliance pathway and specific water-quality BMPs, directly
addressing health/safety considerations; supports Findings regarding no material injury to public
health and safety.

Exhibit 6 — Documentation of Historical Agricultural Use

Historic evidence of agricultural activity in the Emigration drainage (including the notarized Emma
Bertagnole Affidavit, July 16, 1976), attesting to seasonal sheep grazing and livestock watering at
springs dating to circa 1900, with use in side canyons proximate to the subject property.

Use in record: Shows long-standing agricultural use and continuity of production on and around
the site; bolsters § 17-41-305(1) and (3) regarding current production context and long-term
viability.

Exhibit 7 — Documentation of Current Agricultural Production (2025)

Consolidated 2025 production records: maple sap (25 bigtooth maples tapped with daily log and
chart), apiary operations (UDAF-licensed), and native fruit harvest production (elderberry,
chokecherry, Oregon grape, serviceberry, thimbleberry) supplied to a local cider house.

Use in record: Direct, quantitative proof of current agricultural production meeting § 17-41-
305(1); also shows value-added processing and market linkage.

Exhibit 8 — Freeze Creek Forest — Conceptual Site Design

Agroforestry design handbook for the property: alley-crop orchard, edible forest edge, shady edible
forest, edible riparian buffer, and edible windbreak, with goals, design steps, plant palettes,
establishment/management approaches, and water/contour strategies; emphasizes silvopasture
integration and apiaries.

Use in record: Corroborates viability and the low-intensity nature of proposed uses; supports § 17-
41-305(3) and environmental BMPs.

Exhibit 9 — Freeze Creek Forest — Conceptual Site Plan (08/08/2025)

Plan-view drawing locating agricultural areas and access (e.g., agroforestry blocks, apiary zones,
trails), stewardship features (e.g., shaded fuel breaks, erosion controls), stream/riparian buffers,
and any proposed agricultural accessory areas consistent with FCOZ and DWSP BMPs. Includes
notes on slopes and setback observance.

Use in record: Provides locational clarity for staff and advisory bodies (setbacks, slopes, riparian
buffers, access), supporting § 17-41-305(4) (extent/nature of improvements) and aligning with
FCOZ and DWSP review.




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                      P A G E | 10
Exhibit 10 — FCOZ Site Plan Application Narrative (02/07/2025)

Municipal site-plan narrative for permitted agricultural uses and accessory structures; lays out
phased NRCS practices (e.g., 584/643/410/612/575/294), WUI ignition-resistant construction,
and the compliance path under FCOZ. Notes the parcel’s location within an EID Ground Water
Source Protection area and intent to obtain stream alteration permits as needed.

Use in record: Aligns municipal land-use approvals with conservation agriculture and safety
measures; supports § 17-41-305(4) and health/safety mitigation findings.

Exhibit 11 — E.C.C. 19.12.020 Permitted Uses

Official excerpt from the Emigration Canyon City Code identifying permitted uses within applicable
zoning districts (including the FR-20 district) and expressly listed agricultural and accessory uses
relevant to the subject parcel.

Use in record: Demonstrates zoning compatibility under UTAH CODE § 17-41-305(2) by showing
agricultural and accessory uses are allowed in the applicable district(s). Provides statutory context
for interpreting any ambiguous provisions in favor of the application, and cross-supports Exhibits 4
and 10 as consistent with permitted agricultural activities.

Exhibit 12 — E.C.C. 19.02.020 Purpose of Provisions

Purpose section of the City’s zoning ordinance stating that the code is enacted to promote the public
welfare, foster the City’s agricultural and other industries, protect people, wildlife, water, and the
natural landscape, and secure safety from fire and other dangers, among other objectives.

Use in record: Confirms the APA implements the ordinance’s stated purposes, especially fostering
agriculture and advancing public health/safety via DWSP BMPs and wildfire/erosion mitigation.
Supports Findings that designation promotes the public welfare and is consistent with the City’s
policy framework (see also Exhibits 5, 7, and 10).




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                                     P A G E | 11
Exhibit Index
Ex. 1 - Salt Lake County Assessor Parcel Map

Ex. 2 - Salt Lake County Recorder's Office Parcel Ownership Record

Ex. 3 - Freeze Creek Forest Stewardship Plan

Ex. 4 - USDA NRCS Schedule of Operations

Ex. 5- EID March 2025 Board Report - 20250320

Ex. 6 – Documentation of Historical Agricultural Use

Ex. 7 - Documentation of Current Agricultural Production

Ex. 8- Freeze Creek Forest - Conceptual Site Design

Ex. 9 - Freeze Creek Forest - Conceptual Site Plan - 20250808

Ex. 10 - FCOZ Site Plan Application Narrative – 20250207

Ex. 11 - E.C.C. 19.12.020 Permitted Uses

Ex. 12 - E.C.C. 19.02.020 Purpose of Provisions




 FREEZE CREEK FOREST APA APPLICATION                                 P A G E | 12
           Exhibit 1
Salt Lake County Assessor Parcel Map
                                                         Parcel Map of APN 10-20-400-002




August 10, 2025                                                                                                                                                  1:59,234
                                                                                                                                       0            0.38            0.75                         1.5 mi

                                                                                                                                       0          0.5           1                        2 km




                                                                                                                              Esri, HERE, Earthstar Geographics, County of Salt Lake, Bureau of Land
                                                                                                                              Management, Utah AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, INCREMENT P, NGA,
                                                                                                                              USGS



                                                                                                                                      This map was created by the office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, in
 The information depicted here is to be taken as an approximate fit in regards to the spatial position of the layers presented. This map is not intended to represent an actual field Survey of, nor establish
                   Exhibit 2
Salt Lake County Recorder's Office Parcel Ownership
                      Record
7/19/25, 2:13 PM                                                  Salt Lake County Recorder's Office Public Search




                                                    Rashelle Hobbs
                                                    Salt Lake County Recorder

                                                    Property Search

                                                             Start A New Search
                                                         10-20-400-002-0000                    10204000020000




                                    Property Address •1475 PINECREST CANYON RD
                                                          Active Parcel Number
                   Recorded Documents • 29

                   14287206 9/11/2024                    AMENDMENT
                   13954037 5/18/2022                    PLAT
                   13555257 2/3/2021                     WARRANTY DEED
                   13555256 2/3/2021                     WARRANTY DEED
                   13555255 2/3/2021                     WARRANTY DEED
                   13555254 2/3/2021                     WARRANTY DEED


                   Current Owner(s) Of Record • 1
                   LEICK, RYAN




                   Legal Description •Property Description For Taxation Purposes Only
                   SE 1/4 OF SE 1/4 SEC 20 T 1N R 2E SL MER 40 AC 4767-0210 7213-1982
                   7773-2864 9216-4480




                    To view and download copies of documents, please purchase access.
                                                There is a $5 24-hour access option.

                                                 Purchase Access To Data Services




https://apps.saltlakecounty.gov/data-services/DataServicesAccess/PublicSearch.aspx                                   1/1
           Exhibit 3
Freeze Creek Forest Stewardship Plan
     FREEZE CREEK PROPERTY
NATURAL RESOURCE ASSESSMENT AND
     FORESTRY ACTIVITY PLAN




                     Prepared by:
                Scott Zeidler, Forester
           Department of Natural Resources
        Division of Forestry, Fire & State Lands
              Wasatch Front Area Office
               1594 West North Temple
              Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
                    (801) 538-4818




                          1
Table of Contents
   General Property Description…….…………………………………………………………...3
        Map, Property Overview….….….…………………….……………….……….………5
        Map, Property Detailed………….………….………………………………………......6
        Map, Property Land Ownership………….….………………………………………….7
   Landowner Objectives/Desired Future Conditions.…….…………………………………….8
   Division Purpose..…………………………………………………………………………….8
   Plan Elements- Description and Assessment…………………………………………………9
         Soil and Water………………………………………………………………………….9
                 Soils...………….…………………….………………………………………....9
                 Water...…………………………………………………………………….…...9
                Waterbodies.….……………………………………………………………….10
        Biological Diversity.….….……………………………………………………………10
        Range……………………….………………………………………………………….10
         Map, Forest Stands.…...………………………….…………………………...……....12
         Forest Resources...………………………….…………………………………………13
        Agroforestry.….…………………………….…………………………………………16
        Aesthetic Quality and Desired Timber Species…….………………………………….17
         Recreation..……………………………………………………………………………17
        Wood and Fiber Production..………………………………………………………….18
         Fish and Wildlife..…………………………………………………………………….18
         Threatened and Endangered Species…..……………………………………………...20
         Forest Health and Invasive Species..………………………………………………….21
                   Forest Health….….…………………………………………………………22
                  Invasive Species.….…………….…………………………………………..24
       Conservation-based Estate Planning/Legacy Planning Information..………………...26
       Archeological, Cultural and Historic Sites..…………………………………………..27
       Wetlands..……………………………………………………………………………..28
       Fire…..…………………………………………………………………………….…..28
       Map, Wildfire Risk…………..………………………………………………………..30
       Carbon Sequestration and Climate Resilience.………………………………………..31
  Recommendations and Implementation Schedule……………………………………….…..32
  Appendix………………………………………………………………………………….….33




                                       2
General Property Description

The Freeze Creek property owned by the Leick family consists of 40-acres in northcentral Utah,
situated within the incorporated Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The property can be reached
by foot or mountain bike travel via a 1.0-mile single-track trail originating at a parking lot
administered by the Emigration Improvement District along Pine Creek Canyon Road. The
property is zoned by Salt Lake County as Recreation, Vacant Lot – Residential, and occupies a
wooded, mountainous setting.

The property legal description is as follows: SE ¼ of SE ¼ Section 20, Township 1N Range 2E,
Salt Lake Meridian, Salt Lake County. The latitude and longitude of the middle of the property is
(40.79986, -111.74258). The elevation at the middle of the property is 6,580 feet above sea level
(ASL).

Freeze Creek, a perennial stream, originates on the property from springs. It is recognized as a
tributary of Emigration Creek, a classified Waters of the State.

The property exists within the Upper Emigration Creek Sub-Basin located along the western flank
of the central Wasatch Mountain Range in the Middle Rocky Mountain physiographic province.

The nearest weather station to the property records a January minimum average temperature of
34.2 degrees F., and an average July daily maximum temperature of 88.7 degrees F. The mean
annual temperature is between 44 to 46 degrees F. The frost-free growing season ranges between
80 and 100 days. The mean annual precipitation amount is between 20 and 30 inches.

The Wasatch Range is home to a wide variety of plants and animal species. The topographic relief
of the mountain hillsides and creek accommodates diverse vegetation communities on the
property. Forest and woodland tree species include white fir (Abies concolor), quaking aspen
(Populus tremuloides), Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum), bigtooth maple (Acer
grandidentatum), Gambel oak (Quercus gambelii), Douglas hawthorn (Crateagus douglasii),
water birch (Betula occidentalis), and narrowleaf cottonwood (Populus angustifolia).

Forest management on the property is affected by the Salt Lake County - Foothills and Canyon
Overlay Zone (Title 19, Chapter 19.72). Intent to alter living trees on the property must comply
with processes described in the ordinance.

The property is categorized as high value spring and fall-season habitat for mule deer, elk, moose
cougar and black bear. A fishery is not associated with Freeze Creek.

The Upper Emigration Creek Sub-Basin has been historically used for ranching, limited farming,
quarrying, and summer retreats. In the last forty years, year-round urban residential development
has increased within the sub-basin.


                                               3
Wildland fire response, preparation, and prevention is provided by the Unified Fire Authority,
through its tax collection authority. The agency maintains Fire Station #119 at 5025 Emigration
Canyon Road.

Adjacent federal land holdings are managed and administered by the USDA Forest Service, Uinta-
Wasatch-Cache National Forest, Salt Lake Ranger District. As well, land administered by Salt
Lake City Public Utilities is situated east and south of the ownership. The Emigration Improvement
District holds land northeast of the ownership.

Historical vegetation management is not evident on the private land ownership or adjacent public
lands, aside from livestock grazing which is no longer a permitted use.

The following table summarizes the vegetative cover classifications for the Freeze Creek property.



                              Resource Component
                                                                        Total Acres
                  Forested Acres                                            6.5
                  Woodland Acres                                            2.5
                  Rangeland Acres                                            31


                  Total Acres                                                40




                                                4
5
6
7
Landowner Objectives/Desired Future Condition
 “I purchased this property as a retreat for family recreation. But as a researcher from a long
line of farmers, my curiosity naturally desires to explore the role of silviculture in watershed
conservation while validating the economic incentives of sustainable agroforestry. I believe
nurturing proper soil ecology for biological diversity and the cultivation of drought-resistant
species can replenish aquifers while supporting organic permaculture. I hope to facilitate
research on silviculture practices managed specifically to minimize evapotranspiration and
preserve snowpack later in the season.” – Ryan Leick, Landowner - 2021.

This Forestry Activity Plan documents natural resource management activities for the property,
over the next 10-year period ending in 2032.




Division Purpose
The purpose of the Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands’ (DFFSL) Forest Stewardship
Program is to encourage long-term stewardship of non-industrial private forestlands, by providing
technical assistance to private landowners toward their active management of forest and natural
resources. The recommended management activities, during the next 10-year planning period, may
sustain forestland conditions and move toward the landowner-defined Desired Future Condition.

The Division received funding to write this plan through the USDA Forest Service - State and
Private Forestry Program, a federal activity re-authorized by Congress within the Agriculture
Improvement Act of 2018.

Landowner participation in the Forest Stewardship Program is voluntary and withdrawal can be
requested at any time.

Planning technical assistance offered through the Forest Stewardship Program may enhance access
to federal and state cost-share programming, including USDA – Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) assistance.

This plan supports the goals and objectives outlined in the Utah Forest Action Plan 2020. The land
base and is located in the Wasatch Front Priority Area defined by the DFFSL.

The Utah Department of Natural Resources (Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands) receives
federal aid and prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, pregnancy, age, religion,
national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or Veteran status. For information
or complaints regarding discrimination, contact Executive Director, Utah Department of National
Resources, P.O. Box 145610, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5610 or Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, 1801 L Street, NW, Washington DC 20507-0001.



                                                8
Plan Elements- Description and Assessment

Soil and Water
Soils
Soil information was collected from the USDA-NRCS Web Soil Survey. Two soil units were
identified within the boundaries of the property.

The Brad very rocky loamy sand soil type covers approximately 10 acres, situated in the northern
quarter of the ownership. The Emigration very cobbly loam covers the middle and southern 30
acres of the property.
Both soils are exhibiting a well-drained character resulting from weathered sandstone and
limestone. Both soils are shallow loams 12 to 20 inches thick above an unweathered bedrock layer.

According to the Web Soil Survey, the soil types suggest the prominence of two primary ecological
cover types – sagebrush and curl-leaf mountain mahogany. It may be that current status of white
fir forest on the property is a reflection of wildfire suppression since the settlement era.


Water

The property is assigned to Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC8) UT16020204. Water in creeks, springs
and underground flow are recharged primarily from winter snow accumulation. Rainfall also adds
to water resources.

Three springs exist on the property. Within the current drought cycle, two are not producing water,
while one is rendering surface flow in the spring and summer season.

Freeze Creek collects and transports water which flows to Emigration Creek.
Waters descend to the Jordan River and eventually deposit into the Great Salt Lake.

Records suggest that underground water diversions and surface wells may be associated with the
property. (Emigration Creek TMDL, Utah Division of Water Quality, 2011)

Water rights are not yet assigned to Freeze Creek property ownership.

Hydrologic processes (as relates to forest resources) on the property is influenced by species
compositions, canopy structure and tree distribution patterns over time.

The on-site hydrologic processes are a result of water interception, infiltration into the soil,
evapotranspiration, soil moisture storage and hillside erosion. A shallow bedrock layer exists on
the property and throughout the Upper Emigration Creek Sub-Basin. The Emigration Creek TMDL



                                                9
identifies the potential for three or four overlapping soil constraints on the property which affect
watershed values.

Utah’s Forest Water Quality Guidelines - A User’s Guide for Landowners, Loggers and Resource
Manager’s – are voluntary measures that can be implemented to better protect the state’s water
quality where qualifying forest practices are being implemented. The Guidelines booklet is
included in the Appendix of this plan.


Waterbodies (lakes, ponds, reservoirs)
No open water habitats exist on the property.



Biological Diversity
The property exhibits a biological diversity as reflected in the plant, animal and insect species
compositions comprising five (5) terrestrial Key Habitats acknowledged by the UDWR. The key
habitats that exist on the ownership are described in the Fish and Wildlife section of this plan.
The Resource Management Recommendations identified in this plan supports the continuation
of native species richness and genetic variability currently existing on the property.

Intriguing studies have been performed in the canyon setting north of Freeze Creek – Red Butte
Canyon. Much can be learned and assessed by examining the Red Butte Canyon Research Natural
Area website; https://redbuttecanyon.net

Published researched, referenced on the website, indicate ecological drivers and life form
expression that may have correlation with the Freeze Creek property.




Range
Range resources are abundant and persist on south, west and southwest facing slopes on the
property. Sagebrush (Artemisia spp.), bitterbrush (Purshia tridentata), rabbitbrush
(Chrysothamnus spp.), mountain snowberry (Symphoricarpos oreophilus), diminutive Gambel
oak scrub (Quercus gambelii), Utah serviceberry (Amalanchier utahensis), curl-leaf mahogany
(Cercocarpus ledifolius), snowbrush ceanothus (Ceanothus velutinus), bunchgrasses and
associated forbs (wildflowers) in varying combinations are plant species that comprise the
rangeland cover type. The rangeland type includes elements of the Mountain Shrub Key Habitat.

Rangeland plants generally tolerate harsh growing conditions influenced by soil characteristics,
full sun exposure, competition between drought-tolerant species, precipitation timing and

                                                10
retention, and humidity. Disturbance agents, both biotic and abiotic, can also direct rangeland plant
trends. Wildfire and its relation to Gambel oak and bigtooth maple regeneration and stature are
observed on the property, as influenced by the 1988 Emigration Wildfire.

Browsing wildlife, especially Shiras moose may utilize rangelands year-round. Spring and fall-
season forage is rendered for mule deer and elk on south and west-facing slopes that offer
diminished snowpack. Gamble oak yield acorn crops on favorable years to black bear in the
autumn season. Several shrub plants provide fleshy fruit to wildlife and birds. Access to springs
and nearby flowing water provides important habitat for pollinators and wildlife dependent on the
range resources.

Rangelands can be negatively impacted by establishment and expansion of non-native, invasive
plant species.

Assessments and recommendations for rangelands that serve as wildlife habitat can be obtained
by the UDWR, Central Region Office, 1115 N. Main Street, Springville, UT 84663 (801) 491-
5678.

Additionally, advice concerning rangeland resources management can be gained through the
USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) – Tooele Field Office, 185 N. Main Street,
Tooele UT 84074, (435) 882-3018.




                                                 11
12
Forest Resources
Trees and associated understory plants comprise forest vegetation resources. Varying
combinations of forest plants are determined by sunlight intensity, available soil moisture capacity,
inter-plant competition, age-related tree vigor, and an array of tree health drivers – in some part,
or directly influenced by terrain features, soil chemistry and physical attributes, invasive species,
climate, human manipulation and regenerative processes.

Forest and woodland resources on the property express structural, species and age-class diversity
and richness.

Native shrubs and wildflowers (forbs) abundance across the property suggest that pollinators have
effectively contributed to fruit and seed production which has enabled plant migration.

The most impactful recent occurrence on the property was the September 1988 Emigration
Wildfire. That natural disturbance driver influenced aspen regeneration, oak-maple regeneration
and mature and juvenile conifer tree mortality (likely dozens) on the eastern half of the property.
The resulting vegetative responses to wildfire, expressed on the ownership, is in accordance with
researched and published regional forest ecology.

There are two white fir dominated stands on the property. An aspen stand is situated on the eastern
edge of the property. There is a diverse riparian zone associated with Freeze Creek which connects
with a deciduous tree-dominated wetland forest type in proximity to water spring sources. A small
but structurally unique grove of Gamble oak resides on the ownership.

A modified quick plot stand examination was conducted in May 2021. Botanical composition and
structural attributes were noted.


White Fir Stand 1

This 1.2-acre stand is located east of a gully in the middle third of the property. It occupies a west-
facing aspect with a mid and low slope position expressing thirty-two (32) to sixty-five (65)
percent slopes at approximately 6,500 feet ASL. It’s comprised of scattered, mature white fir trees
with varying combinations of forb and grass understory plants including heartleaf arnica, mountain
sweetroot, Utah sweetpea and waterleaf. Understory shrubs are significant and include snowberry,
Oregon grape, kinnikinnick, bigtooth maple, Saskatoon serviceberry, and chokecherry. Fruit
bearing shrubs are being sustained by native pollinators. The stand expressed an “open” character,
allowing sunlight to reach the forest floor as shadows migrate underneath the white fir crowns.
Fifty (50) to seventy (70) percent of open blue sky is observable in the daylight hours through the
conifer tree canopy. Occasional remnant live mature aspen trunks are present, but have been in
regression for some time due to lack of significant widespread disturbance and progressive sunlight
filtering. The estimated basal area of mature white fir trees is around 70 square foot per acre.
Estimated average trunk diameter at breast height (DBH) is 15 inches. The stand has been
experiencing white fir tree blowdown for some time based on the scattered tree trunks deposited


                                                  13
across the stand. Remnant white fir lower trunks and root crowns of toppled trees demonstrate
wood decay fungus tissue disease.
Many standing mature white fir exhibit previous damage from fir engraver beetle as tree tops are
forked in structure. The largest tree encountered in the stand was a 35-inch DBH white fir with
one-half of its crown blown down by wind at the junction of codominant leaders where included
bark created a weak union. White fir tree seedlings and saplings are minimal within the stand.
Available filtered sunlight is rendering advantage for grasses, forbs and shrubs on the forest floor,
perhaps due to the sites “drier” quality. Evidence of historic fire is present on the uphill margin of
the stand – likely the 1988 Emigration Wildfire. Charring within the stand is not widespread, but
perhaps indicative of an isolated single tree lightning strike or a small spot fires. Game trails are
evident within the stand. Previous tree harvest is not apparent.


White Fir Stand 2

This 4.7-acre stand is influenced by its east-facing aspect, which likely invites persistent spring
snowpack guarded against the late afternoon sunlight. Twenty-five (25) to forty (40) percent of
open blue sky is observable in the daylight hours through the conifer tree canopy. This mature
white fir stand exists on a mid to low slope between nine (9) and forty-eight (48) percent value at
an elevation of 6,575 feet ASL. The basal area of the stand is around 150 square foot per acre.
Compared to White Fir Stand 1, this site contains many more small to mid-diameter class trees
that boost its basal area value substantially. Average DBH is 12 inches. All dominant and co-
dominant trees within the stand are white fir, which is the climax plant community tree type. The
largest tree encountered has a DBH of 23 inches and a height of 80-feet. The understory is
comprised of Fendler meadowrue, common yarrow, Utah sweetpea, and shade-tolerant grasses.
Kinnikinnick, Oregon grape, bigtooth maple, Saskatoon serviceberry, snowberry, Wood’s rose,
and chokecherry shrubs also occupy. An occasional aspen stem or trunk can be observed in the
stand, though the species is demonstrating a significant regression. Very few white fir saplings and
no seedlings were noticed at observation points. Previous tree harvest is not apparent.


Freeze Creek Forested Wetland and Riparian Zone

In proximity to two water springs situated at the toe of three slopes, eroded deposited soils and
modest ground angles have enabled the presence of mature narrowleaf cottonwood, abundant river
birch, snake grass Equisetum, riparian grass-like plants and forbs to combine in what appears to
be a small wetland forest approximately 2.5-acres in size. Wetland delineation by a qualified
ecologist has not yet occurred. The site is depicted on the Forest Stands Map as Mixed Deciduous.

The opposing hillsides and mature white fir trees render late-morning and late-afternoon shade to
the site, potentially conserving soil moisture. The cottonwoods appear overmatured and exhibit
scaffold branch failure, likely attributed to wood decay and reduced tree vigor. Terrain influenced
wind may play a role in branch break as well. Cottonwood tree regeneration is limited.




                                                 14
At the lower end of the wetland forest, water erosion appears evident. It is not known if water
erosion is an ongoing process or a periodic reoccurring event during high water years. Localized
creek headcutting has also occurred downslope in the Freeze Creek riparian channel as well.

The Freeze Creek Trail runs along the creek corridor taking advantage of the cool, shaded setting.
In close proximity to the flowing water channel - narrowleaf cottonwood, river birch, Douglas
hawthorn, boxelder, red-osier dogwood, shrub willow, and Wood’s rose stabilize the creek banks
at the southern boundary of the ownership. The riparian zone is rather narrow by way of riparian
species reach from the water’s edge. However, the adjacent upland slopes are also densely
occupied with bigtooth maple, Gambel oak, currant, blue elderberry, snowberry, Saskatoon
serviceberry, chokecherry, ninebark, and occasional Rocky Mountain juniper, aspen and white fir
trees. Increased humidity near Freeze Creek has maintained plant vigor during the dry summer
season compared to more sun-exposed upland sites. The riparian forest and creek corridor appear
stabile and well stocked with vegetation. The shallowness of the soil above bedrock may be a
compounding factor of observed headcutting erosion.


Aspen Stand 1

This stand is situated on the east boundary of the ownership at 6,750-foot ASL elevation. It’s
comprised of aspen trees regenerating from root masses as a result of the 1988 Emigration Fire.
Large remnant aspen trunks are not present on the forest floor suggesting that the wildfire
consumed most of the previous large woody material. The aspen on this site are the dominant tree
species. The tallest heights of trees are around 30-feet. The average DBH of the stems is between
two (2) and three (3) inches. The tree canopy blocks around 60% of available blue sky. Grasses,
Fendler meadowrue, Utah sweetpea, Saskatoon serviceberry, chokecherry and bigtooth maple
comprise the understory and stand margins.

Natural thinning is occurring within the stand, driven by competition for sunlight, and perhaps soil
moisture. Some aspen are declining and dying as a result of being neglected from direct sunlight
by companion stems. Aspen trunk canker disease is observed throughout the stand as well. The
bigtooth maple may become an impactful competitor in the future if severe drought persists – as
observed within other mixed deciduous stands in northern Utah. The stand’s west- southwest
aspect exposes the aspen to warm updraft summer winds which may favor the more drought-
tolerant bigtooth maple.

Elk scat and beds were observed in the stand during the spring season. The stand extends onto the
adjacent public land (Salt Lake City Public Utilities) to the east. A water spring is situated downhill
and south of the aspen stand. The spring may have previously discharged water more abundantly
and sponsored a small landslide some years after the wildfire. The localized spring exhibits other
sapling species of trees related to aspen – narrowleaf cottonwood and willow shrub.




                                                  15
Matured Oak Grove

This 0.3-acre grove is situated in the middle of the White Fir Stand 2. Very mature Gamble oak
with unique physical structures provide aesthetic contributions to the property. Several trunks and
scaffold branches exhibit wind or snow load breakage. The understory is occupied by forbs,
grasses and shrubs. Also within the understory are seedling and sapling white fir. To sustain the
presence or Gambel oak, it is recommended that cleaning-weeding work be done to kill all
encroaching white fir within the grove to maintain adequate long-term sunlight interception for the
oak. The cleaning-weeding will likely take but one work day to accomplish, if residual material is
cut and scattered on the ground. If conducted in the winter, removed trees might be considered as
exportable Christmas tree stock as well.



Agroforestry
The landowner has expressed interest in collecting/cultivating Saskatoon serviceberry fruit,
chokecherry fruit, blue elderberry fruit, and edible mushrooms within and adjacent to forest and
woodland overstory trees. Late winter sap collection from maple trees is being examined for syrup
production. Honeybee hives have been placed on the property for honey and wax production.
Onsite processing of biochar soil amendments from woody plant residue is being investigated. The
property owner has expressed potential for designing and implementing a multi-story food forest
garden which may include non-native, introduced vegetables, vines, stone fruit trees, forbs and
greens. All of these might be considered specialty crops and products. Space to conduct these
activities may be sited and expanded through understory woody plant removal (cleaning-weeding)
and residue management. Existing forest and woodland overstory may be physically manipulated
to foster multi-story cropping system(s). White Fir Stand 2 and Rangeland are being considered
candidate sites. Persistent observation and monitoring for the effects of introduced, non-native
plants should accompany the experimentation of food forest gardening. Plants should be
considered and selected to avoid invasive, weed plant potentials and escapes, including seed
sources and purity.

As well, seedling trees may be planted to someday modify sunlight intensity (shadowing) and
snow deposition through tree crown development - to benefit understory agricultural crops and
soils. This endeavor may be employed on favorable habitat microsites on the southeast quarter of
the property, where the 1988 Emigration Wildfire occurred.

The proposed agroforestry endeavors are novel and adaptive management will likely be employed
to optimize the results.

The USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service is assisting the landowner through a
Conservation Activity Plan which further explores the agricultural commodity potential(s) and
activities. Assistance in these agricultural endeavors may be formulated through NRCS
conservation practice standards and supporting documents. Landowner enrollment and direct
implementation of practices are expected.


                                                16
Aesthetic Quality and Desired Timber Species
The forest and woodland resources on the property offer diversity to the majority rangelands.
Mature large trees may be an outcome of fire suppression that has likely occurred since the
settlement era. The large trees offer shade and physical presence which increases its value as
habitat and recreational potentials. Views are limited due to the creek-canyon landform, but on-
site and visiting wildlife and insect resources are abundant and diverse. The properties Freeze
Creek resource and water springs add to its value as a destination setting. The plant expression on
the property appears adequate to the potential of the Emigration Canyon area. Invasive plants
species remain an ongoing nearby threat to aesthetic and ecological resources.

Commercial timbering is not feasible due to the lack of roadway access and needed heavy
equipment to conduct operations. The white fir stands are relatively small and volumes are not
sufficient for third-party commercial interests in wood fiber. Wood decay diseases may persist
indefinitely and expose large standing trees to windthrow potential. Wood decay diseases affecting
white fir may diminish the volume and percentages of bole wood suited for processing into
dimensional lumber.

White fir is adaptable as evident on the sites it occupies. White fir as the expected climax forest
tree type is fulfilling its ecological trajectory. There may be potential to introduce (artificial
regeneration) Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii var. glauca) and ponderosa pine (Pinus
ponderosa) to some sites, but experience and strategies will need to be developed to support the
endeavors. Because no native ponderosa pine forests exist nearby, seed/genetic sources will have
to originate from alternative locations. Some Douglas-fir seed/genetics may be introduced from
stands elsewhere in Salt Lake County. Protecting transplanted trees from browse damage and
persistent drought mortality will need to factor into management schemes.



Recreation
For some time, visitors to the forestland have in mostly been motivated by recreational pursuits –
hiking in a natural setting, winter snowshoeing or skiing, wildlife and botanical viewing, and/or
hunting of game animals. The primary trail on and leading to the property have likely been
improved voluntarily by people residing in the Emigration Canyon community. The property and
its resources are not well known or published. The owners are enjoying the property as a
recreational destination that involves camping, observing nature and outdoors play. On-property
work, in some forms, are valued as “recreational escape” enabling quality family time together as
well.

The single, established on-property trail may gain some improvements. New trails may be
established to facilitate fire breaks, emergency responder access, recreation and property
management work. Recreation may impact riparian resources negatively, so actions should be
assessed for unintended outcomes.




                                                17
Recreation may increase or develop more broadly as the owners and guests become connected to
the land. Amenities such as equipment storage caches and non-permanent tents/yurts may enable
increased recreation and longer-duration stays.



Wood and Fiber Production
Woody forest plants are accumulating mass at varying rates, influenced by soil water quantities
and temperatures/humidity regimes affecting spring-season terminal leader and lateral branch
growth and ring wood diameter. Wood tissue accumulation is directly correlated with leaf
photosynthesis and cellular respiration. Net-positive energy conversion and storage enables
productive accumulation of chemicals that comprise plant tissues and tree specimen survival.
Wood decay diseases are abundant, affecting tree longevity and structural capacity to remain
standing. Wood decay diseases reduce lumber quality and durability.

White fir wood fiber will begin to be utilized on the property for constructing small structures and
amenities.

Deciduous (oak) wood may be used as feedstock (fungal inoculation sites) for cultivating edible
mushrooms.

Wood may be collected and use as heating and cooking fuel.

Limited equipment access to the property will prolong the processing timelines and movement
distance of wood as a local product. Most processing will be conducted by hand using small,
portable tools to which personal injury potential must always be mitigated.



Fish and Wildlife
Wildlife occurring in Utah is a public resource of the state. To that end, the UDWR is charged
with the management of wildlife and also aids and partnerships with private landowners and public
land administrators where wildlife and habitat is a concern. Wildlife resources occurring in Salt
Lake County are administered by the Northern Regional Office of the UDWR located at 515 E.
5300 S. Ogden, UT 84405, (801) 476-2740.

Fostering and sustaining wildlife populations is a function of managing natural resources on the
property.

The UDWR has identified within the Utah Wildlife Action Plan 2015-2025, Key Habitats observed
on the property. They include; 1) Aspen-Conifer Forest, 2) Gambel Oak, 3) Aquatic – Forested,
4) Aquatic – Scrub/Shrub, and 5) Mountain Shrub. A summary for each habitat and potential
threats are included in the Appendix.



                                                18
There are many species of wildlife that utilize the different habitat types on this property. Some
are seasonal visitors while others remain year-round. Mule deer, elk, moose, foxes, gophers,
cougars, black bear, mice, porcupines, coyotes, bobcats, rabbits, bats, skunks, squirrels, marmots,
woodrats, raccoons, marten, fishers, mink, weasels and voles are common across the property.
Beavers don’t appear to be present. Snakes, salamanders, frogs and lizards are likely present.
Songbirds, game birds and raptor birds are observed across the property.


Aspen-Conifer Forest Habitat
These Key Habitat sub-types occupy the property and are designated as:
       Inter-Mountain Basins Aspen – Mixed Conifer Forest and Woodland - Low Elevation
       Rocky Mountain Aspen Forest and Woodland

Large ungulate game species, predators, game bird species, raptors, songbirds and small mammals
utilize this habitat for food and cover. Forest successional status and tree, shrub and forb stratum
vary across the ownership.


Gambel Oak
These Key Habitat sub-types occupy the property and are designated as:
       Rocky Mountain Gambel Oak-Mixed Montane Shrubland – Continuous
       Rocky Mountain Gambel Oak-Mixed Montane Shrubland – Patchy

Larger continuous patches of Gambel oak as well as smaller populations intermixed on drier sites.
Gambel oak habitats are observed to include companion bigtooth maple trees. Brushy growth
forms of Gambel oak are utilized by big game and provide habitat for birds and rodents. Young
oak pole stands provide sites for foliage-nesting birds. Mature growth forms provide acorn yields
for squirrels, wild turkey, elk, deer and black bear. New, tender sprouts of Gambel oak are a major
forage species for moose, deer and elk.


Aquatic-Forested
This Key Habitat is characterized by woody vegetation greater than 6-meters in height, commonly
found around the margins springs and creeks. Narrowleaf cottonwood and water birch (Mixed
Deciduous stand) is present on the property and contribute to this habitat type. This key habitat
appears to be proximate to emergent wetland understory plants that tolerate long periods of soil
saturation. Browsing ungulates, rodents, raptors and songbirds will utilize the vegetation as
important food and cover. Riparian zones are comprised tall woody vegetation as well. Companion
shrub species also provide shading to maintain cool creek temperatures and water oxygen content.


Aquatic-Scrub/Shrub
This Key Habitat is characterized by woody vegetation less than 6-meters in height, and can
include those areas near flowing-water resources. Habitat sites include both intermittent and
perennially flooded areas. Riparian zones are comprised of Aquatic – scrub/shrub habitats. Moose
will utilize the willows and dogwood. River birch, thinleaf alder, Wood’s rose and red-osier


                                                19
dogwood also gain use by birds and mammals on the property. These shrub species also provide
soil bank stabilization along the creek.


Mountain Shrub
These Key Habitat sub-types occupy the property and are designated as:
       Inter-Mountain Basins Curl-leaf Mountain Mahogany Woodland and Shrubland
       Rocky Mountain Bigtooth Maple Ravine Woodland
       Rocky Mountain Lower Montane-Foothill Shrubland – No True Mountain Mahogany
       Rocky Mountain Lower Montane-Foothill Shrubland – True Mountain Mahogany

Moose, elk and mule deer may use this zone for food and cover especially in the spring and fall
seasons. Curl-leaf mahogany, chokecherry, snowbrush ceanothus, serviceberry (Utah and
Saskatoon), snowberry, ninebark, blue elderberry and bigtooth maple are the dominant shrub
species in this zone. Many songbirds and grouse frequent these areas at different times of the year
to eat the berries produced by the shrubs. Black bears utilize mountain brush habitats for forage
and cover. The floral habits of the mountain shrub plants are beneficial to native insects seeking
pollen and nectar.



Threatened and Endangered Species
No known federally listed threatened or endangered species exist on the property. In the vicinity
of the ownership, the following Utah Species of Greatest Conservation Need (SGCN) have
potential for existence based on mapping published by the UDWR, Utah Conservation Data Center
program.

                                  Species                         Listing Agency          Status
  Utah Ambersnail, Succinea rustincana                         State               SGCN
  Flammulated Owl, Psiloscops flammeolus                       State               SGCN
  Northern Goshawk, Accipiter gentilis                         State               SGCN
  Western Toad, Anaxyrus boreas                                State               SGCN
  June Sucker, Chasmist horus                                  State               SGCN
  Northern Leopard Frog, Lithobates pipiens                    State               SGCN
  Bald Eagle, Halaeets leucocephalus                           State               SGCN
  Cross Snaggletooth, Gastrocoptera quadridens                 State               SGCN
  Kit Fox, Vulpes macrotis                                     State               SGCN
  Black Swift, Cypseloides niger                               State               SGCN
  Columbia Spotted Frog, Rana luteiventris                     State               SGCN
  Mitered Vertigo, Vertigo modesta concinnula                  State               SGCN
  Coarse Rams-horn, Planobella binneyi                         State               SGCN
  Ferruginous Hawk, Buteo regalis                              State               SGCN
  Western Pearlshell, Margaritifera falcata                    State               SGCN
  Lewis’s Woodpecker, Melanerpes lewis                         State               SGCN
  Bonneville Cutthroat Trout, Oncorhynchus clarkii Utah        State               SGCN
  Mountain Marshsnail, Stagnicola montanensis                  State               SGCN
  Least Chub, Lotishthys phlegethontis                         State               SGCN




                                                          20
If threatened or endangered species are found during the course of implementing this plan,
management activities should be reviewed to insure they do not harm the species, or destroy the
habitat they occupy. The landowner is advised to contact the UDWR for direction.



Forest Health and Invasive Species
Tree health can be affected by plant tolerances and intolerances to growing conditions, the effects
of destructive insect pests and diseases of woody plants, weather phenomena and the manipulation
of vegetation through management and activities that occur in the forest. Forest health involves
trees, but also companion plant forms and communities that reside on shared ground.

Drought has and will continue to be a significant agent of forest succession and health in the long-
term. Drought is a re-occurring phenomena that has influenced plant communities in northern Utah
for millennia. A severe drought is underway in the region and will likely affect perennial woody
plants negatively by reducing vigor or defense mechanisms or by causing damage to water-
conducting vascular system tissues – including rapid hydraulic collapse.

Variable climate patterns, especially affected by opposing eastern Pacific Ocean La Nina and El
Nino, influence the gain of precipitation on the land and temperature averages. Unfortunately,
years that either of these climate patterns dominate, the potential outcome is drier conditions than
normal. Additionally, the property is situated against the eastern reach of the Great Basin and
Range geophysical province where air masses derived from the distant Pacific Ocean can gain
influence – elevated air temperatures and single-digit relative humidity can increase plant stress in
the short term and elevate evaporative demand over many weeks.

Trees can also be negatively impacted by high-velocity, terrain-driven winds and snow avalanches
that can damage or destabilize them. Human disruption or alteration of tree root functions by soil
grade changes, trenching and/or root removal can predispose plants to growing condition stressors
and subsequent attacks by insect pests and root decay diseases.

Regular, periodic surveys of forest stands on the property will help determine location, extend and
potential management response needs to address forest health issues. Forest management action
thresholds will be optimized by ongoing forest health monitoring and mapping work.

Forest pathology examines the role of diseases and wood tissue decays affecting trees. Forest
entomology examines the role that insects play, especially ones that in disrupt tree tissues and plant
survival. Diseases and insects can be secondary agents of drought-induced moisture stress,
physical damage to trees and the effects of extreme temperature variations. The following table
summarized common, potential forest insect pests and diseases which might impact tree health on
the property.




                                                 21
Table: Potential and Active Forest Tree Insect and Disease Pests
           Tree Species             Tree Pest(s)          Where to Examine               What to Look For

                                Insects; fir engraver                          Needle drop, branch and tree top
                                beetle, Douglas-fir                            growth reduction and death, seedling
                                tussock moth, western                          mortality.
                                spruce budworm,          Trunk, branches,
 white fir, Abies concolor
                                balsam woolly adelgid,   buds, leaves
                                white fir needleminer,
                                cutworms

                                Diseases; fir dwarf                            Witches brooms on branches, tree top
                                mistletoe, white fir                           death, shortened terminal growth
                                mistletoe, Annosus
                                root rot, yellowcap      Trunk, roots,
 white fir, Abies concolor                               branches
                                fungus, Indian paint
                                fungus, white pocket
                                rot

                                Insects; poplar/aspen                          holes emitting sap, woodpecker
                                                         entire tree trunk,
 aspen, Populus tremuloides     borer, clearwing                               mining, tree trunk color changes, leaf
                                                         branches and leaves
                                moths                                          necrosis, early fall leave drop

                                Diseases; black leaf                           leaf necrosis, trunk cankers and early
                                spot fungus, trunk                             fall leave drop, root decay
                                decay disease, root      Trunk, branches,
 aspen, Populus tremuloides     and butt rot             leaves
                                pathogens, stems
                                cankers,

 bigtooth maple, Acer           fall cankerworm, and                           moderate to heavy defoliation by
 grandidentatum                 wood boring insects      leaves                caterpillars

                                fall cankerworm,                               moderate to heavy defoliation by
 Gambel oak, Quercus gambelii   gypsy moth and wood      leaves                caterpillars
                                boring insects




The following describes the major forest/woodland insect and disease agents that are, or may
potentially be active on the property. Additional pamphlets and fact sheets are also included in the
Appendix of the plan.


Balsam Woolly Adelgid (BWA)
Adelges piceae (Ratzeburg) is a non-native, invasive insect detected in northern Utah in 2017. It
may have existed in Salt Lake County several years prior however. North American fir species
have hypersensitive responses to the adelgid’s feeding that disrupt the trees’ metabolism, damage
the vascular system, and reduce radial growth, which can kill the trees (Balch, 1952, Balch et al.,
1964). In western North America, BWA is causing the slow disappearance of fir (Abies) from
some ecosystems (Ragenovich and Mitchell, 2006). BWA insects may locally reach adult life
stages in the spring and fall seasons, when storms descending from the Pacific Northwest illicit
strong prefrontal winds and post storm winds. These directional winds could effectively disperse


                                                   22
the very small, mobile adults’ miles away via air masses moving across forests comprised of true
firs. If not already present, BWA has strong potential to exist on the property. The piercing-sucking
feeding habit of BWA offers countless feeding points on individual trees. Populations build up
quickly in forests.

The property has historically demonstrated and sustained the significant, but limited, white fir
conifer component. The uncertainties of the long-term effects of BWA to white fir existence and
productive capacity deserve awareness and caution. The current and future growth potential of
white fir seedlings and sapling trees may be subject to impacts by BWA. The current and future
cone productivity and viable seed yields rendered by mature white fir trees may be subject to
impacts by BWA. Invasive species, BWA included, are sometimes referred to as biological
wildfire equivalents. The fidelity of the white fir forest type (reproduction and dominance) may
become casualty of the BWA – perhaps reflecting unsustainability that could impact the land for
many decades. Employed management actions to white fir simultaneous to undetermined but
potential negative effects of BWA, could affect resilience of the tree species to persist as it has in
the past.


Dwarf Mistletoe
Mistletoes (Arceuthobium spp.) are parasitic plants that extract water and nutrients from their host
tree. Witches brooms often form on infected branches. Top kill is common. Mistletoes affect tree
form. They reduce growth, wood quality, seed production, and life span of host trees. Severe
infections may eventually kill trees. Infected trees can increase activity of secondary pests that
often attack and kill the infected trees (Hawkworth et al. 1996). Host-specific mistletoe diseases
are associated with the white fir tree species, the dominant conifer present.


Fir Engraver
Fir Engraver (Scolytus ventralis LeConte) is a native bark beetle affecting white fir mostly, but
occasionally subalpine fir. Adults and larvae feed in phloem layer of inner bark. Often trees are
top killed although whole trees can be killed if attacked by enough beetles. Attacked trees are
generally 5 inches or greater in diameter. Root diseases can be a precursor for fir engraver attack.


Root and Trunk Wood Pathogens
Root diseases are decay fungi that break down cellulose and lignin that comprise wood tissues in
trees – mostly roots and lower tree trunks. They can also kill the cambium of roots and the root
collar, resulting in girdling of the tree. Pathogens of conifer trees are sometimes referred to as
white or brown rots, referring to the appearance of the fungal mycelium or decayed wood color
staining. Older trees and high-density stands are at higher risk to some root and trunk rots
compared to young or open stands. Once established on a site, root disease fungi persist or may
become permanent, living for decades in the root and stumps and killing new trees that seed into
the site (Hagle 2010). The result of the pathogens is usually several to hundreds of trees dying or
dead in patches called root disease patches, or pockets. Tree crown symptoms of root pathogens
vary according to rapidity of death, involvement of bark beetles, and season of death. Root diseases
can be conveyed from diseased trees to healthy trees by root grafts that occur in the soil. Small

                                                 23
trees which are killed rapidly by root disease may turn uniformly red without having been attacked
by bark beetles. Shortened terminal growth and short leaves are often symptoms of root disease
infection. These symptoms are especially apparent in seedlings and saplings a year or two before
death. Armillaria root disease, laminated root rot, Schweinitzii root and butt rot, Annosus root
disease and Tomentosus root rot are potential root pathogens on the property. Root diseases can
lead to tree instability or resulting windthrow as well as increased attack potential by bark beetles.
Fir engraver beetle and western balsam bark beetle may be attracted to respective conifer tree hosts
effected by diseased weakened roots (Hagle 2010).


Other Insects and Diseases
White fir on the property are hosts to additional insects and pathogens, though they may not
become mass-mortality event drivers. Other insects and diseases include white fir needleminer,
cutworms, gypsy moth (nonnative invasive), Douglas-fir tussock moth, western spruce budworm,
western balsam bark beetle, fall cankerworm, aspen borer, blue stain fungus of sapwood, and aspen
black leaf spot fungus.

As invasive, nonnative insects are detected in the state, the Utah Department of Agriculture and
Food and Utah State University Extension Services will provide advisory documents and prescribe
methods to suppress or eradicate them.

Annual surveys of forests for appearances and tree symptoms associated with insect and disease
agents is a best practice to identify and potentially react to threats. Site disturbances or stressors to
trees caused by environmental factors can elevate the risk of insect and pathogens.

If signs and symptoms of tree stress, steady decline, or mortality are observed the DFFSL may be
able to diagnose and advise further on forest health issues. Please contact the Division’s Forest
Health Program Coordinator, 1594 W. North Temple, Suite 3520, Salt Lake City, UT 84114, (801)
538-5555.




Invasive Species

Noxious weeds (state recognized non-native invasive plants) are considered harmful to wildlife
habitat and native plant communities. Invasive plant species can have a significant impact on an
array of ecological facets. Invasive plants reduce species richness, plant diversity, and plant
community productivity. Wildlife forage and cover species may be degraded; soil erosion and
stream sedimentation may result; soil moisture and nutrient levels may be depleted; and wildfire
regimes may be altered by invasive plant species. Working with the land and activities on it will
enable property owners to readily observe and react to plants that demonstrate weed-pest attributes.

On-site technical assistance to identify and potentially control invasive species plant is available
from the Salt Lake County Weed Supervisor, Salt Lake County Health Department, 2001 S. State
Street, Ste. S2-600, Salt Lake City, UT 84190, (385) 468-4035. Partnerships and suppression


                                                   24
projects focused on invasive plants is available through the Bonneville Cooperative Weed
Management Area workgroup.

As well, plant identification and weed control advice might be obtained from the Utah State
University – Salt Lake County Extension Services which maintains an office at the Salt Lake
County Government Center, 2001 S. State Street, Ste. S1-300, Salt Lake City, UT 84190 (385)
468-4828.

Listed in the Appendix of this plan the 2021 State of Utah - Noxious Weed List, published by the
Utah Department of Agriculture and Food. State law requires the active suppression of certain
weed species designated by the County (Salt Lake) Weed Board.

Weed seed can migrate onto the property by wildlife, sporting equipment, construction equipment,
pets, footwear and clothing. Some seed transports within soil clods and mud. Preventing weed
seeds from migrating onto the property and suppressing newly established weed populations are
very effective at preserving the ecological integrity of the property.

Early detection and rapid response are an effective weed management model that calls for annual
surveys and focused intent to keep small problems small, and quickly eradicate threats.

The following listed weeds (selected for real and potential existence on the Freeze Creek property)
are designated and published as noxious for the State of Utah, as per the authority vested in the
Commissioner of Agriculture and Food under Section 4-17-3:
There are designated five classes of noxious weeds in the state: Class 1A (EDRR Watch List),
Class 1 (EDRR), Class 2 (Control), Class 3 (Containment), and Class 4 (Prohibited for sale or
propagation).
Class 1A: Early Detection Rapid Response (EDRR) Watch List Declared noxious and invasive
weeds not native to the state of Utah and not known to exist in the State that pose a serious threat
to the state and should be considered as a very high priority.
Class 1B: Early Detection Rapid Response (EDRR) Declared noxious and invasive weeds not
native to the State of Utah that are known to exist in the state in very limited populations and pose
a serious threat to the state and should be considered as a very high priority.
Class 2: Control Declared noxious and invasive weeds not native to the state of Utah, that pose a
threat to the state and should be considered a high priority for control. Weeds listed in the control
list are known to exist in varying populations throughout the state. The concentration of these
weeds is at a level where control or eradication may be possible.
Class 3: Containment Declared noxious and invasive weeds not native to the State of Utah that are
widely spread. Weeds listed in the containment noxious weeds list are known to exist in various
populations throughout the state. Weed control efforts may be directed at reducing or eliminating
new or expanding weed populations. Known and established weed populations, as determined by
the weed control authority, may be managed by any approved weed control methodology, as
determined by the weed control authority. These weeds pose a threat to the agricultural industry
and agricultural products.
Class 4: Prohibited Declared noxious and invasive weeds, not native to the state of Utah, that pose
a threat to the state through the retail sale or propagation in the nursery and greenhouse
industry. Prohibited noxious weeds are annual, biennial, or perennial plants that the commissioner


                                                 25
designates as having the potential or are known to be detrimental to human or animal health, the
environment, public roads, crops, or other property.

Table 5: Detected Weed Pests
      Common Name                    Scientific Name          Class
 Canada Thistle            Conium maculatum                     3
 Houndstongue              Cynoglossum officianale              3
 Dalmatian Toadflax        Linaria dalmatica                    2
 Downy Brome               Bromus tectorum                    none



Table 6: Potential Weed Pests
        Common Name                    Scientific Name
 Purple Loosestrife        Lythrum salicaria L.                  2
 Medusahead Rye            Taeniatherumcaput-edusae              2
 Yellow Starthistle        Centaurea solstitialis                2
 Vipers Bugloss            Echium vulgare                       1B
 Oxeye Daisy               Leucanthemum vulgara                 1B
 Common St. Johnswort      Hypericum perforatum                 1B
 Leafy Spurge              Euphorbia esula                       2
 Poison Hemlock            Conium maculatum                      3
 Ventenata                 Venteneata dubia                     1A
 Dyers Woad                Isatis tinctoria L.                   2
 Spotted Knapweed          Centaurea stoebe                      2
 Black Henbane             Hyoscyamus niger                      2
 Cutleaf Vipergrass        Scorzonera lacinata                  1B
 Japanese Knotweed         Polygonum cuspidatum                 1B
 Purple Starthistle        Centaurea calictrapa                 1B
 Diffuse Knapweed          Centaurea diffusa                     2
 Myrtle Spurge             Euporbia mysinites                    4
 Yellow Toadflax           Linaria vulgaris                      2
 Jointed Goatgrass         Aegilops cylindrica                   3
 Garlic Mustard            Alliaria petiolata                   1B
 Hoary Cress               Cardaria draba                        3
 Scotch Thistle            Onopordium acanthium                  3
 Musk Thistle              Carduus nutans                        3
 Field Bindweed            Convolvulus arvensis                  3
 Bulbous Bluegrass         Poa bulbosa                         none
 Japanese Brome            Bromus japonica                     none
 White Bryony              Bryonia alba                        none
 Phragmites                Phragmites australis                none


Invasive species might also include new insect and aquatic species that threatened natural
resources. As newly identified species are detected in the state, the Utah Department of Agriculture
and Food and Utah State University Extension Services will provide advisory documents and
prescribe methods to manage them.



Conservation-based Estate Planning/Legacy Planning Information
No conservation easements are currently assigned to the property. There exist several conservation
easement programs and organizations active in the state of Utah. Some have been involved in


                                                   26
previous work in the Emigration Creek basin and are familiar with the resources and values
contained in the area. Estate planning, conducted under advisement by legal professionals, may
facilitate landowner long-term interests.

The DFFSL in coordination with the USDA Forest Service – State and Private Forestry Program
administers a federal conservation easement program titled Forest Legacy. For information about
the program, its requirements and outcomes, contact the Forest Legacy Program Coordinator (435)
210-1206.



Archaeological, Cultural and Historic Sites
Any steps to protect archaeological resources that may be found on the property are highly
encouraged. If evidence of sites is discovered during the course of implementing this plan, the
landowner must notify the Division of State History as required by Utah Code Title 9-8-307. If the
landowner receives state or federal grant funds for project implementation, then archeological
clearance is required. If, upon completion of a survey done by the Division of State History,
archaeological resources are found to be present, mitigating measures may have to be addressed
for protection. The landowner should consider any of all viable management alternatives if such
sites are discovered on or near areas designated for management. This information is provided to
assist in identifying historic properties, per the consultation procedures of the National Historic
Preservation Act’s Section 106 regulations (36 CFR 800).

Utah Code Section 9-8-302, Definitions, states:
(4) “Archaeological resources” means all material remains and their associations, recoverable
or discoverable through excavation or survey, that provide information pertaining to the historic
or prehistoric peoples of the state.
(9) “Excavate” means the recovery of archaeological resources.
(17) “Site” means any petroglyphs, pictographs, structural remains, or geographic location that
is the source of archaeological deposits or specimens.
(18) “Specimen” means all man-made artifacts and remains of an archaeological or
anthropological nature found on or below the surface of the earth, excluding structural remains.

Utah Code Section 9-8-307, Report of discovery on state or private lands, states:
(2) Any person who discovers any archaeological resources on privately owned lands shall
promptly report the discovery to the division [of State History].
(4) Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize any person to survey or excavate for
archaeological resources.

The Utah Division of State History can be contacted at 3760 S. Highland Dr., Salt Lake City, UT
84106, (801) 245-7263. https://history.utah.gov/about-us/contact-us/




                                                27
Wetlands
There is potential that a jurisdictional wetland resource exists near the middle of the property at
the convergence of the three major mountain slopes contributing to the existence of the mixed
deciduous forest type (depicted by the green polygon on the Forest Stands Map, page 12). There,
a water spring(s) is evident and narrowleaf cottonwood and water birch trees are present. Freeze
Creek might also support jurisdictional wetlands along its conveyance. A site assessment by a
qualified wetland ecologist would help determine the physical attributes and associations of
prolonged water presence.

Wetlands are an important, limited resource in Utah. Several land management policies apply to
wetlands. To better determine wetland classification and extent, the Utah Geological Survey would
be the good resource for inquiry and advise pertaining to wetlands. The agency is located at 1594
W. North Temple, Salt Lake City, UT 84114 (801) 537-3300.
https://geology.utah.gov



Fire
A major problem when attempting any generalization about the effects of fire is the variation in
fire intensity, duration, frequency, location, shape, extent, season, fuels, site and soils.

Fire creates, destroys, enhances, or degrades wildlife habitat thereby causing changes in the
subsequent occurrence and abundance of animal species on, and in proximity to, a burned area.

Fires role as a natural forest ecological agent is recognized and situationally promoted by public
land management agencies.

The vegetation on the property exhibits risk potentials for unintended wildfire. The annual and
decades-long accumulation of woody matter, leaf litter and duff are a natural phenomenon that
predisposes plant communities for a wildfire event(s). The risk of stand-replacing fires is real, but
the outcome is not certain. Such disturbance fires are typically followed by early succession plant
species taking advantage of reduced perennial plant competition, greater sunlight exposure and
increased moisture interception – if soils are not sluffed off by secondary erosive forces. Stand
replacing fires could alter the settings where mature plant communities now reside. The status of
white fir climax forest stands may wholly, or in part, be influenced by the exclusion of natural fire
for many decades. As the published soil survey suggests, the existence of forests in their current
mature state may not be the long-term destination potential based on aspect, soil character, and
reoccurring drought cycles for the region. Shrubs and deciduous woodlands may be the better-
suited woody cover species for the site. The shrubby expression of Gamble oak is a persistent, fire
adapted species that likely will, and has demonstrated favorable response to wildfire.

All soils comprising the property are highly susceptible to water erosion. Wildfire, specifically
stand replacing ones, have potential to contribute to mass erosion events years after the fire.
Perhaps too, a substantial rain-on-snow spring season event could sponsor landslides and erosion

                                                 28
based on the shallow bedrock layers existing in Emigration Canyon. The Wasatch Range
mountains do also express landslide in the absence of wildfire impacts.

Wildland fire is a re-occurring phenomenon in Salt Lake County. Over the progression of the
summer season and perhaps well into the fall, the potential for wildfire can steadily increase,
especially in drought years. Autumn-season wildfires along the Wasatch Mountain Range can be
very erratic, fast-moving and sizeable. The September 1988 Emigration fire impacted the property
and influenced the successional pathway and current conditions for rangeland, woodland and forest
resources on the property. Observed outcomes from the 1988 wildfire do not suggest catastrophic
long-term impact, but there may be some results and actions in the first decade that are not well-
known.

Local and regional emergency responders and community representatives have participated in
creating the Emigration Canyon Wildfire Preparedness Plan. No specific recommendations from
that plan have been prescribed for the property. Whereas no permanent structures exist on the
property, defensible space strategies are not applicable. Wildland fire response is a local
government public service assigned to Unified Fire Authority.

In 2016, the Utah Cooperative Wildfire System was enacted by the Utah State Legislature. The
system is based on the simple principle of risk reduction; wherein the state will pay the costs of
large and extended attack wildland fire (“catastrophic fires”) in exchange for local government
providing initial attack and implement prevention, preparedness and mitigation actions that are
proven to reduce the risk and costs of wildland fire in the long run. The local government entity
eligible to participate is the Unified Fire Authority.

Technical assessments and advice to prepare for wildfire and mitigate risk can be obtained from
the Unified Fire Authority, most likely from the experienced local firefighters working from
Station 119, situated in the Emigration Canyon community.




                                               29
30
Carbon Sequestration and Climate Resilience
All forest plants and supportive soils have an essential relationship with the earth element carbon.
Water, carbon dioxide and oxygen are both drivers and byproducts of two highly ordered and
repeated biochemical processes – photosynthesis and plant cell respiration. Trees, shrubs, grasses,
forbs, mosses, bacteria, fungi, viruses, insects and animals are forest life forms comprised of
carbon. As plants encounter and convert sunlight energy to glucose chemical energy forms, carbon,
in part, is constructed into plant tissues. As plants produce litter through leaf drop, branch drop,
and root decay, a wide range of soil organisms consume cellulose (carbon containing) plant tissues
for their energy. Soils, especially those comprised of high organic matter, retain and process
carbon. Soils prone to organic layer loss due to slope steepness and erosive character can be
reduced in their carbon storage and processing potential.

The acquisition and temporary storage of carbon from the atmosphere into plant tissues and soils
is a termed coined carbon sequestration. Sequestration occurs at the single plant level and as well
as a stand level. The repositioning of carbon into soils is an outcome of forest and rangeland plant
tissue life and death. The forests and rangelands express carbon utilization, storage and releases at
varying rates and in varying volumes across the land.

Applied forestry and rangeland management can maintain and expand opportunities to sequester
atmospheric carbon while providing additional land-resource contributions, such as wildlife
habitat, rainfall energy dissipation, water filtration, soil nitrogen mineralization, waterway
shading, heating wood, construction lumber and some pretty great places to live, work and
recreate. Forest and rangeland management work can influence plant type presence on the land,
plant community competitions and relations with water and soil.

This plan is intended to identify and prioritize work and outputs in accordance to the strategies
implemented in the effort of forestry. Fostering natural regeneration, planting new trees and
maintaining future forest canopy, through targeted thinning and select mature tree removal are
some of the ways to direct forest carbon gain and storage potential in the long run.

Applied forestry and rangeland management may be considered a suited action alternative to the
uncertainties and challenges expressed by climate change. Variations in plants’ annual growing
and dormancy seasons, as affected by temperature and precipitation, can influence the highly
ordered photosynthetic and cell respiration biochemical processes. Creating opportunities for
genetic migration or the emergence of plant trait characteristics previously conditioned to be
resilient to climate change may hasten the conservation of forest, woodland and rangeland types.
Regenerating and maintaining diverse vegetation cover types (species, ages, structure, genetics,
and vigor) are endeavors that may hasten resilience.




                                                 31
Recommendations and Implementation Schedule
This section of the plan contains potential outcomes based on practices and strategies for achieving
objectives identified by the landowner as important. Recommended practices are based on current
resource conditions, identified in the Resource Description and Assessment sections.
Recommendations are limited to the acreages described in the plan, and do not reflect advise to
other entities or interests.

      Date        Recommend Practice(s) Description                Location            Desired Future Conditions

                                                                                  Native plant communities are
                                                                                  conserved against the threats of
                                                                                  noxious, invasive weeds. Small
  2022, then      Survey for invasive, noxious weeds –                            weed plant outbreaks are detected
                                                              Entire property
  ongoing          map locations then suppress them                               early and gains treatment. Weed
                                                                                  seed production and transport is
                                                                                  effectively curtailed.
                    Prepare planting sites, procure and
                     plant Douglas-fir tree seedlings in
                         gully landform situated in the                           New trees and shrubs are
  Every 5 to 10
                      southeast quarter of the property                           established on favorable microsites
  years when
                      affected by the 1988 Emigration         Rangeland           to diversify species and perhaps
  conditions           wildfire. Install seedling browse                          modify surface shading and snow
  are favorable
                   protection devices and mulch barrier                           deposition attributes.
                  products. Formulate actions based on
                  NRCS practice codes (490) and (612)
                          Selectively fell and process
                   intermediate diameter-class white fir
                                                                                  Achieve a target basal area volume
                       trees/bole wood into dimension
  2022, then                                                                      around 70 square feet per acre.
                    lumber material for use on site. Lop      White fir Stand 2
  ongoing                                                                         Wood fiber is yielded for personal
                         and scatter crown materials.                             use on the property.
                     Formulate actions based on NRCS
                              practice code (666)
                     Clean-weed all understory white fir
                       saplings within the matured oak
                                                              Matured Gamble      Matured oak grove is maintained for
  2022             grove. Sustain sunlight availability to
                                                              Oak grove           overstory dominance/advantage.
                  favor Gambel oak. Formulate actions
                   based on NRCS practice code (666)
                    Enhance the forested wetland stand
                    with native riparian tree transplants.
                                                                                  Riparian appropriate trees persist on
  Favorable            Implement planting trials where        Mixed Deciduous
                                                                                  the wetland site and express age-
  water years          available sunlight favors crown        Stand
                                                                                  class diversity.
                  growth. Formulate actions based on
                  NRCS practice codes (490) and (612)
                   Survey and document site attributes
                   that favor specialty products that will
                   be cultured on the property. Prepare
                                                                                  Novel specialty products and land
                     multi-story cropping areas through
  2022, then                                                  Select areas        management work is employed
                       understory cleaning-weeding or
  ongoing                                                     across property     based on the interests of the
                  woody perennial plant establishment.
                  Conduct practices after designing risk                          landowner.
                    mitigations to conserve native plant
                               community fidelity




                                                             32
Appendix

Appendix A: Glossary of Terms and Definitions

Appendix B: Soil Maps, Descriptions and Ratings

Appendix C: Key Habitat Descriptions, Species Characteristics

Appendix D: Range Productivity Maps and Ratings

Appendix E: Forest Health Pamphlets; Insect, Disease, Weeds

Appendix F: Seedling Nursery Vendor List and Use Pamphlets

Appendix G: Utah Noxious Weed Control Act

Appendix H: Literature Cited




                               33
          Exhibit 4
USDA NRCS Schedule of Operations
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                             CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                            NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                                03/2019
                    PARTICIPANT                                       COUNTY AND STATE                                 PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                                  SUBACCOUNT
                    RYAN LEICK                                        SALT LAKE County, UT                                 EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                                    FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                               PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                     LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                 WATERSHED                                ACRES             EXPIRATION
Farm:1179 Tract(s):10780.                                                                                                           Emigration Creek                           40.8                DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 12/31/2028

Contract Items 1: Forest Stand Improvement(666)                                                                      Practice Lifespan: 10 years                                          Status: Planned 2023
Forest Stand Improvement - Treat species composition, stand structure or density by cutting or killing selected trees or understory vegetation to achieve desired forest conditions or obtain ecosystem
services.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                      COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                    Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost     Cost Share      2023     2024      2025      2026     2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                     Rate/Method        $        $         $         $        $
1           Forest Stand Improvement(666)                                    10.7 Ac                                  22,251
 1a         HU-Even-aged Hand and Light Mechanized Equipment on              10.7 Ac $2,079.5100               PR¹ 22,251
            Slopes Greater than 25%                                                          / Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 2: Herbaceous Weed Treatment(315)                                                                     Practice Lifespan: 5 years                                           Status: Planned 2023
Herbaceous Weed Treatment - Remove or treat herbaceous weeds including invasive, noxious and prohibited plants using chemical, biological or mechanical methods, either alone or in combination to
meet management objectives.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                      COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                    Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost     Cost Share      2023     2024      2025      2026     2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                     Rate/Method        $        $         $         $        $
2 AP        Herbaceous Weed Treatment(315)                                   40.8 Ac                                   3,027
 2a         HU-hand and chemical                                             40.8 Ac $74.1700/ Ac              PR¹     3,027
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.
Notes: "AP" denotes the participants' intent to receive an Advance Payment for this Contract Item. The participant must contact the field office to request the Advance Payment and to ensure
requirements are met.

Contract Items 3: Upland Wildlife Habitat Management(645)                                                            Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                             Status: Planned 2023
Upland Wildlife Habitat Management; Low - Enable movement and / or provide food and cover to sustain wildlife that inhabit uplands. Application of this practice will meet wildlife habitat planning criteria.
Fields:

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 1 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                            CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                         NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                            03/2019
                 PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                 PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                  SUBACCOUNT
                 RYAN LEICK                                          SALT LAKE County, UT                                 EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                    FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                              PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                    WATERSHED                   ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                   Emigration Creek              40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                              12/31/2028


Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                    Planned     Unit Cost      Cost Share    2023     2024     2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                       Amount                    Rate/Method      $        $        $          $      $
3          Upland Wildlife Habitat Management(645)                            40.8 Ac                                   231
 3a        HU-Monitoring and Mgmt, Low Intensity, no FI                       40.8 Ac   $5.6400/ Ac           PR¹       231
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 4: Channel Bed Stabilization(584)                                                                    Practice Lifespan: 10 years                         Status: Planned 2024
Stabilization - Use measures to stabilize the bed or bottom of a channel.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                    Planned     Unit Cost      Cost Share    2023     2024     2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                       Amount                    Rate/Method      $        $        $          $      $
4          Channel Bed Stabilization(584)                                      200 Ft                                         23,095
 4a        HU-Wood structures                                                    7 No $3,299.1700             PR¹             23,095
                                                                                              / No
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 5: Channel Bed Stabilization(584)                                                                    Practice Lifespan: 10 years                         Status: Planned 2025
Stabilization - Use measures to stabilize the bed or bottom of a channel.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                    Planned     Unit Cost      Cost Share    2023     2024     2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                       Amount                    Rate/Method      $        $        $          $      $
5          Channel Bed Stabilization(584)                                      200 Ft                                                  23,095




                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 2 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                     NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                            03/2019
                  PARTICIPANT                                           COUNTY AND STATE                                    PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                         SUBACCOUNT
                  RYAN LEICK                                            SALT LAKE County, UT                                    EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                           FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                                   PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                         WATERSHED                         ACRES            EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                        Emigration Creek                    40.8               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                             12/31/2028


 5a        HU-Wood structures                                                      7 No $3,299.1700                 PR¹                      23,095
                                                                                                / No
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 6: Grade Stabilization Structure(410)                                                                      Practice Lifespan: 15 years                                 Status: Planned 2026
Stabilization - Install a structure to control the grade in natural or constructed channels.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                           COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                     Planned           Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024     2025     2026     2027
 Item                                                                        Amount                         Rate/Method      $        $        $        $        $
6          Grade Stabilization Structure(410)                                     12 No                                                               56,071
 6a        HU-Log Drop Structures                                                 12 No $4,672.5400                 PR¹                               56,071
                                                                                                / No
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 7: Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities(643)                                               Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                   Status: Planned 2024
Restoration of Rare or Declining Communities - Reestablish abiotic (physical and chemical) and biotic (biological) conditions necessary to support rare or declining natural assemblages of native plants
and animals in situations where it is not possible to meet target conditions solely through implementation of annual management actions such as prescribed burning, prescribed grazing, forest stand
improvement, or pest management.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                           COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                     Planned           Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024     2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                        Amount                         Rate/Method      $        $        $          $      $
7          Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural                               0.3 Ac                                             9,063
           Communities(643)
 7a        HU-Beaver Dam Analogues or Post-Assisted Log                        250 LnFt         $36.2500/           PR¹              9,063
           Structures                                                                                LnFt
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.


                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 3 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                           CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                          NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                            03/2019
                 PARTICIPANT                                        COUNTY AND STATE                                 PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                                SUBACCOUNT
                 RYAN LEICK                                         SALT LAKE County, UT                                 EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                                  FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                            PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                  WATERSHED                                ACRES            EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                 Emigration Creek                           40.8               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                             12/31/2028


Contract Items 8: Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities(643)                                        Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                          Status: Planned 2025
Restoration of Rare or Declining Communities - Reestablish abiotic (physical and chemical) and biotic (biological) conditions necessary to support rare or declining natural assemblages of native plants
and animals in situations where it is not possible to meet target conditions solely through implementation of annual management actions such as prescribed burning, prescribed grazing, forest stand
improvement, or pest management.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                    COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2023     2024     2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                   Amount                       Rate/Method      $        $        $          $      $
8          Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural                          0.3 Ac                                                    9,063
           Communities(643)
 8a        HU-Beaver Dam Analogues or Post-Assisted Log                    250 LnFt     $36.2500/            PR¹                       9,063
           Structures                                                                        LnFt
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 9: Riparian Forest Buffer(391)                                                                      Practice Lifespan: 15 years                                        Status: Planned 2025
Riparian Forest Buffer - Establish, restore or enhance woody plant communities located adjacent to watercourses or water bodies.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                    COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2023     2024    2025        2026   2027
 Item                                                                   Amount                       Rate/Method      $        $       $           $      $
9          Riparian Forest Buffer(391)                                       4.5 Ac                                                  10,382
 9a        HU-Bare-root, hand planted                                        4.5 Ac $2,307.0600              PR¹                     10,382
                                                                                            / Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 10: Tree/Shrub Site Preparation(490)                                                                Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                           Status: Planned 2026
Site Preparation - Treat area to support establishment of woody plant species.
Fields:

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Page 4 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                             CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                            NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                03/2019
                  PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                      SUBACCOUNT
                  RYAN LEICK                                          SALT LAKE County, UT                                EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                        FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                             PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                   WATERSHED                        ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                  Emigration Creek                   40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                  12/31/2028


Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025        2026     2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $           $        $
10          Tree/Shrub Site Preparation(490)                                   40.8 Ac                                                             9,192
 10a        HU-Hand site preparation                                           40.8 Ac   $225.2900/           PR¹                                 9,192
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 11: Tree/Shrub Establishment(612)                                                                    Practice Lifespan: 15 years                             Status: Planned 2026
Natural Regeneration - Establish, restore or enhance woody plant communities through natural regeneration methods.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026      2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $         $
11          Tree/Shrub Establishment(612)                                      40.8 Ac                                                           12,174
 11a        HU-Medium Density-hand plant Conifer                               40.8 Ac   $298.3800/           PR¹                                12,174
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 12: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                              Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025        2026     2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $           $        $
12          Firebreak(394)                                                     1564 Ft                                                                         44
 12a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.4 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                             44

                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 5 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                             CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                          NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                              03/2019
                  PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                    SUBACCOUNT
                  RYAN LEICK                                          SALT LAKE County, UT                                EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                      FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                             PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                   WATERSHED                      ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                  Emigration Creek                 40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                12/31/2028


                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 13: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                            Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $      $
13          Firebreak(394)                                                     1488 Ft                                                                      33
 13a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.3 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                            33
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 14: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                            Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $      $
14          Firebreak(394)                                                      891 Ft                                                                      22
 14a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.2 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                            22
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 15: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                            Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:

                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 6 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                             CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                          NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                              03/2019
                  PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                    SUBACCOUNT
                  RYAN LEICK                                          SALT LAKE County, UT                                EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                      FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                             PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                   WATERSHED                      ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                  Emigration Creek                 40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                12/31/2028


Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $      $
15          Firebreak(394)                                                      845 Ft                                                                      22
 15a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.2 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                            22
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 16: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                            Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $      $
16          Firebreak(394)                                                     1949 Ft                                                                      55
 16a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.5 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                            55
                                                                                                 Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 17: Firebreak(394)                                                                                   Practice Lifespan: 5 years                            Status: Planned 2027
Firebreak     Establish bare ground or vegetation to manage or control fire.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                     COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                  Planned        Unit Cost     Cost Share    2023     2024    2025       2026   2027
 Item                                                                     Amount                      Rate/Method      $        $       $          $      $
17          Firebreak(394)                                                     1912 Ft                                                                      44
 17a        HU-Constructed - Light Equipment                                    0.4 Ac   $108.0700/           PR¹                                            44

                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 7 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                              CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                            NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                                 03/2019
                 PARTICIPANT                                          COUNTY AND STATE                                  PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                                     SUBACCOUNT
                 RYAN LEICK                                           SALT LAKE County, UT                                  EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                                       FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                                PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                      WATERSHED                                 ACRES            EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                     Emigration Creek                            40.8               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                  12/31/2028


                                                                                                   Ac
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 18: Trails and Walkways(575)                                                                           Practice Lifespan: 10 years                                           Status: Planned 2027
Trail or Walkway - Construct a trail with a vegetated or earthen surface or a walkway with an artificial surface to facilitate the movement of animals, people, or off-road vehicles.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                       COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                   Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2023     2024      2025      2026     2027
 Item                                                                      Amount                       Rate/Method      $        $         $         $        $
18         Trails and Walkways(575)                                           1550 Ft                                                                         2,093
 18a       HU-Earth or Vegetated Trail                                     7750 SqFt        $0.2700/            PR¹                                           2,093
                                                                                                SqFt
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 19: Trails and Walkways(575)                                                                           Practice Lifespan: 10 years                                           Status: Planned 2027
Trail or Walkway - Construct a trail with a vegetated or earthen surface or a walkway with an artificial surface to facilitate the movement of animals, people, or off-road vehicles.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                       COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                   Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2023     2024      2025      2026     2027
 Item                                                                      Amount                       Rate/Method      $        $         $         $        $
19         Trails and Walkways(575)                                             885 Ft                                                                        1,195
 19a       HU-Earth or Vegetated Trail                                     4425 SqFt        $0.2700/            PR¹                                           1,195
                                                                                                SqFt
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 20: Trails and Walkways(575)                                                                           Practice Lifespan: 10 years                                            Status: Planned 2027
Trail or Walkway - Construct a trail with a vegetated or earthen surface or a walkway with an artificial surface to facilitate the movement of animals, people, or off-road vehicles.
Fields:

                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page 8 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                           CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                       NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                         03/2019
                 PARTICIPANT                                        COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                  SUBACCOUNT
                 RYAN LEICK                                         SALT LAKE County, UT                                EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                    FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                          PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                                                                                                                WATERSHED                     ACRES       EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                               Emigration Creek                40.8          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                           12/31/2028


Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                   COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share   2023   2024     2025     2026     2027
 Item                                                                   Amount                       Rate/Method     $      $        $        $        $
20         Trails and Walkways(575)                                        2000 Ft                                                                    2,700
 20a       HU-Earth or Vegetated Trail                                 10000 SqFt       $0.2700/             PR¹                                      2,700
                                                                                            SqFt
Notes: ¹Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.




                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 9 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                          CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                    NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                     03/2019
                    PARTICIPANT                                     COUNTY AND STATE                              PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                            SUBACCOUNT
                    RYAN LEICK                                      SALT LAKE County, UT                              EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                              FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                         PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                 LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                               WATERSHED                            ACRES            EXPIRATION
Farm:1179 Tract(s):10780.                                                                                                     Emigration Creek                       40.8               DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                      12/31/2028

                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                          Total Cost-Share or Payment by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                       Contract
                                            Year           2023        2024       2025        2026            2027                                                                     Payment
                                         Amount($)        $25,509    $32,158    $42,540      $77,437         $6,208                                                                    $183,852
NOTES: A. All items numbers on form NRCS-CPA-1155 must be carried out as part of this contract to prevent violation.
       B. When established, the conservation practices identified by the numbered items must be maintained by the participant at no cost to the government.
       C. All cost share rates are based on average cost (AC) with the following exceptions:
                AA = Actual cost not to exceed average cost; FR = Flat Rate; NC = Non cost-shared; AM = Actual cost not to exceed a specified maximum; PR = Payment rates.
       D. By signing, the participant acknowledges receipt of this conservation plan including this form NRCS-CPA-1155 and agrees to comply with the terms and conditions here of.

 Certification of Participants
 Signature                                         Date             Signature                                         Date           Signature                                       Date
 RYAN LEICK            e-Signed by Ryan Leick
                          For, if applicable:
                            On 09-02-22

 Signatures of Reviewing Officials
Designated Conservationist - Technical Adequacy Certification                                        NRCS Approving Official
Signature: JEDIDIAH REEDER                                                                           Signature:


Date: 9/2/2022                                                                                       Date:




                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 10 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                               CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                                NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                                      03/2019
                    PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                   PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                                    SUBACCOUNT
                    RYAN LEICK                                          SALT LAKE County, UT                                   EQIP 2018 748D43220U0                                      FY 22 Utah BFR
                                                                                                                                   PY 2017 Prior Year Funds Used

                                  LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                        WATERSHED                                  ACRES              EXPIRATION
Farm:1179 Tract(s):10780.                                                                                                               Emigration Creek                             40.8                 DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                        12/31/2028

                                                                                                PRIVACY ACT
The following statements are made in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C 522a). Furnishing this information is voluntary; however failure to furnish correct, complete information will result
in the withholding or withdrawal of such technical or financial assistance. The information may be furnished to other USDA agencies, the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Justice, or other
state or federal law enforcement agencies, or in response to orders of a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal.
This information collection is exempted from the Paperwork Reduction Act under 16 U.S.C. 3801 note and 16 U.S.C. 3846.

                                                                                    NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT
In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in
or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age,
marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded
by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs). Remedies and complaint filing deadlines vary by program or incident.

Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g., Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.) should contact the responsible
Agency or USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be made available
in languages other than English.

To file a program discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027, found online at How to File a Program Discrimination Complaint and at any USDA
office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, call (866) 632-9992. Submit your completed form
or letter to USDA by: (1) mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20250-9410; (2) fax: (202) 690-7442;
or (3) email: program.intake@usda.gov

USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer and lender.




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page 11 of 11
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                            CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                          NRCS..CPA·1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                              03/2019
                    PARTICIPANT                                      COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                    SUBACCOUNT
                     RYAN LEICK                                      SALT LAKE County, UT                                CSP 2018 818D43220XG                    Utah-CSP-NIPF-BFR

                                      LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                WATERSHED                  ACRES        EXPIRATION
Farm.1\ 79 Traci(s) 10780.                                                                                                                                       40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                    Emigration Creek
                                                                                                                                                                              12/31/2026


Contract Items 1: Existing Activity Payment-l.and Use(E300EAP1)                                                    Practice Ufespan: 1 year                             Status: Planned 2022
Manage a level of stewardship on ellgible land uses to receive an existing activity payment.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                    COMPLETION SCHEDULE ANO ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                     Planned Conservation Treatment              Planned       Unit Cost     Cost Share     2022       2023    2024     2025    2026
 Item                                                                    Amount                      Rate/Method      $         $        $       $       $
1           Existing Activity Payment-land Use(E300EAP1)                    40.8 Ac                                       21
 18         CSPEAPNIPF                                                      40.8Ac $0.5000/ Ac               PR'          21
Notes: 'Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 2,5,8,10,13: Eldstlng Activity Payment-Resource Concem(E300EAP2)                                    Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                Status: Planned
Manage a level of stewardship by addressing a number of resource concerns to receive an existing activity payment.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                  COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                     Planned Conservation Treatment              Planned       Unit Cost      Cost Share  2022     2023     2024     2025     2026
 Item                                                                    Amount                      Rate/Method Contract Contract Contract Contract Contract
                                                                                                                  Item     Item     Item     Item      Item
                                                                                                                      $         $        $       $       $
                                                                                                                      2         5        8      10      13
a           Existing Activity Payment-Resource Concern(E300EAP2)              30 No                                  1,800     1,800    1,600   1,800   1,800
            CSP EAP RC met at time of enrollment                               6 No    $300.0000/            PR'     1,800      1800    1800     1800   1800
                                                                                               No
Notes: 'Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant

Contract Items 3: Snags, den trees, and coarse woody debris for wildlife habltat(E6660)                            Practlee Ufespan: 10 years                           Status: Planned 2022
Implement forest stand improvement by utilizing snags, den trees and coarse woody debris for wildlife habitat.




                                                                                                                                                                                    Paget of 5
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                              CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                               NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                     03/2019
                 PARTICIPANT                                           COUNTY AND STATE                                PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                         SUBACCOUNT
                 RYAN LEICK                                            SALT LAKE County, UT                                    CSP 2018 818D43220XG                     Utah-CSP-NIPF-BFR

                                                                                                                                      WATERSHED                        ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                   Emigration Creek                     40.8          DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                     12/3112026



Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                      COMPLETION SCHEDULE ANO ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Consenialion Treatment                   Planned       Unit Cost     Cost Share     2022     2023     2024       2025      2026
    Item                                                                   Amount                     Rate/Method       $        $       $          $         $
3          Snags, den trees, and coarse woody debris for wildlife7.09 99999046325                                        386
           habitat(E666O)                                                     7Ac
 3a        Snags, den trees, and coarse woody debris for wildlife           7.1 Ac $54.2700/ Ac                PR'       386
           habitat
Notes: 1Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 4,7,9,12: Existing Activity Payment,4,.and Use(E300EAP1)                                              Practice Lifespan: 1 year                                     Status: Planned
Manage a level of stewardship on eligible land uses to receive an existing activity payment.
Fields:
Tract: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                      COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST呸SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                   Planned        Unit Cost   Cost Share   2022     2023     2024     2025     2026
    Item                                                                   Amount                     Rate/Method Contract Contract Contract Contract Contract
                                                                                                                   Item     Item     Item     Item     Item
                                                                                                                     $        $        $        $        $
                                                                                                                              4        7        9       12
a          Existing Activity Payment-Land Use(E300EAP1)         163, 19999694824                                                21        21      21       21
                                                                              24Ac
         CSP EAP NIPF                                                      40.8Ac $0.5000/ Ac                  PR'                 21        21         21        21
Notes: 'Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 6: Btochar production from woody resktue(E384A)                                                       Practice Lifespan: 10 years                               Status: Planned 2023
Utilize woody residue remaining after fuel reduction harvests or wildfires to create biochar.




                                                                                                                                                                                         Page 2 of5
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                            CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                       NRCS..CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                             0312019
                   PARTICIPANT                                      COUNTY AND STATE                                 PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                 SUBACCOUNT
                   RYAN LEICK                                       SALT LAKE County, UT                                  CSP 2018 818D43220XG                 Utah-CSP-NIPF-BFR

                                                                                                                                   WATERSHED                  ACRES        EXPIRATION
                                                                                                                                  Emigration Creek             40.8           DATE
                                                                                                                                                                            12/31/2026



Fields:
Traci: 10780 Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                    COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST-SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2022     2023    2024    2025      2026
     Item                                                               Amount                       Rate/Method      $       $        $         $      $
6           Biochar production from woody residue{E384A)                       4Ac                                          17,278
 6a         Biochar production from woody residue                              4Ac $4,319.3100               PR'            17,278
                                                                                           I Ac
Notes: 'Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.

Contract Items 11: Adding food-producing trees and shrubs to exfsttng p!antlngs(E612D)                             Practice Lifespan: 15 years                        Status: Planned 2025
Implement tree/shrub establishment by adding food-producing trees and shrubs to existing plantings.
Fields:
Tract: 10780Fields: 1;
                                                                                                                    COMPLETION SCHEDULE AND ESTIMATED COST呸SHARE OR PAYMENT BY YEAR
Contract                  Planned Conservation Treatment                Planned       Unit Cost       Cost Share    2022    2023     2024    2025      2026
  Item                                                                  Amount                       Rate/Method      $       $        $         $       $
11          Adding food-producing trees and shrubs to existing   2.59 99999046325                                                                526
            plantings(E612D)                                                  7 Ac
 11a        Adding food.producing trees and shrubs to existing              2.6Ac     $202.2700/             PR'                                 526
            plantings                                                                         Ac
Notes: 'Payment rates define the unit cost rate of compensation to be received by the participant.




                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 3 of5
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                          CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                    NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                                                                                                                        03/2019
                     PARTICIPANT                                   COUNTY AND STATE                              PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                               SUBACCOUNT
                     RYAN LEICK                                    SALT LAKE County. UT                              CSP 2018 818O43220XG                               Utah-CSP-NIPF-BFR

                                LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                WATERSHED                             ACRES           EXPIRATION
Fami:11711 Traci(SI,10780.                                                                                                    Emigration Creek                         40.8             DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                      12/31/2026


                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                           Total Cost-Share or Payment by Year
                                                                                                                                                                                       Contract
                                            Year          2022     ! 2023         2024         2025    I 2026 I                                                                        Payment
                                         Amount($)        $2,207   I s19,Ƒ99     $1,821       $2,347   I $1,821 I                                                                      $27,295

NOTES: A. All items numbers on form NRCS-CPA-1155 must be carried out as part of this contract to prevent violation.
       B. When established, the conservation practices identified by the numbered items must be maintained by the participant at no cost to the government.
       C. All cost share rates are based on average cost {AC) with the following exceptions:
                AA= Actual cost not to exceed average cost; FR= Flat Rate: NC= Non cost-shared; AM= Actual cost not to exceed a specified maximum; PR= Payment rates.
       D. By signing, the participant acknowledges receipt of this conservation plan fncluding this form NRCS-CPA-1155 and agrees to comply with the terms and conditions here of.

 CerttflcaUon of Participants
 Signature                                         Date            Signature                                        Date             Signature                                       Date
RYAN LEICK


    呸)CtV\ \.Ne}-                         l.j   I'ii Z' cl>ZL
 Signatures of Reviewing Officials
Designated Conservationist- Technlcal Adequacy Certification                                        NRCS Approving Official
Signature: JENNY COX                                                                                Signature:


Date: 4/4/2022                                                                                     Date:




                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 4 of5
US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTIJRE                                              CONSERVATION PLAN OR SCHEDULE OF OPERATIONS                                                                                 NRCS-CPA-1155
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERvtCE                                                                                                                                                                        0312019
                    PARTICIPANT                                         COUNTY AND STATE                                   PROGRAM AND CONTRACT NUMBER                                     SUBACCOUNT
                    RYAN LEICK                                          SALT L A K E County, UT                                    CSP 2018 818D4322DXG                                 Utah-CSP-NIPF-BFR

                                   LAND UNITS OR LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                         WATERSHED                                 ACRES              EXPIRATION
Farm:117S Traci(s).10780.                                                                                                                Emigration Creek                              40.8                DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                         12/31/2026



                                                                                                 PRIVACY ACT
The following statements are made in accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C 522a). Furnishing this information is voluntary; however failure to furnish correct, complete information wm result
in the withholding or withdrawal of such technical or financial assistance. The information may be furnished to other USDA agencies, the Internal Revenue Service, the Department of Justice, or other
state or federal law enforcement agencies, or in response to orders of a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal.
This information collection is exempted from the Paperwork Reduction Act under 16 U.S.C. 3801 note and 16 U.S.C. 3846.

                                                                                    NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT
In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its Agencles, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in
or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age,
marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded
by USDA (nol all bases apply to all programs). Remedies and complaint filing deadlines vary by program or incident.

Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g., Braille, large print. audiotape, American Sign Language, etc.) should contact the responsible
Agency or USDA's TARGET Center at {202) 720-2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877-8339. Additionally, program information may be made available
in languages other than English.

To file a program discrimination complaint, complete the USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, AD-3027. found online at How to File a Program Discrjmination Complaint and at any USDA
office or write a letter addressed to USDA and provide in the letter all of the information requested in the form. To request a copy of the complaint form, caU (866} 632-9992. Submit your completed form
or letter to USDA by: (1) mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, O.C. 20250-941O; (2) fax: (202) 690-7442;
or (3) email: program,intake@usda,gov

USDA is an equal opportunity provider, employer and lender.




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 5 of5
             Exhibit 5
EID March 2025 Board Report - 20250320
MEETING DATE:                    March 20, 2025
SUBJECT:                         Restricted Uses in Drinking Water Source Protection Zones

SUMMARY

The owner of A.P.N. 10-20-400-002, which is known as 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road, is requesting
approval of Restricted Uses under Emigration Canyon Code 9.25 for development related to a permitted
Agricultural use allowed under 19.02.090 and 19.12.020(B) and accessory structures allowed under
19.12.020(A). These structures will be used to support sugar/syrup production from native perennial
crops (big tooth maple syrup, honey, elderflower/elderberry, chokecherry, serviceberry, etc.) and
silviculture (forest stewardship) operations as well as soil and water conservation projects funded by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS).

BACKGROUND

Agriculture and silviculture are practice on the site as permitted by Emigration Canyon Code 19.02.090
and 19.72.110(B)(3). U.C.A. § 15A-1-204(11)(a) exempts agricultural structures from state building code
permit requirements. However, Emigration Canyon Code 19.72.030(A) outlines “the site plan application
and approval process required for all development or construction activity, including tree/vegetation
removal and grading, or subdivision of land, in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone [(FCOZ)].”

Salt Lake County Health Department review of the FCOZ site plan application noted:

        “Some of the proposed uses are also restricted per [Emigration Canyon Code] 9.25, Appendix A,
        specifically but not limited to: Agriculture experimental station, apiary and lumber processing.
        Restricted means they may be allowed but applicant will need to get written approval from
        Emigration Improvement District for each restricted use.”

Emigration Canyon Code 9.25, Appendix A identifies the following applicable Restricted Uses for
Drinking Water Source Protection Zones: 1) Agriculture experimental station (sap collection), 2) Apiary
(Bee yard), 3) Farm maintenance garage, 4) Fruit and vegetable storage and packing plant, 5)
Greenhouse or nursery, and 6) Logging and lumber processing.

Emigration Canyon Code 9.25.110 – Review of Applications, Subpart A states:

        Restricted use - a restricted use poses some risk of causing pollution or potential contamination
        in a specified protection zone. Following preliminary staff review of an application, the planning
        and development services division will request a verification of compliance from the SLVHD and
        from the appropriate public water system. The applicant shall submit to the appropriate public
        water system the best management practices and engineered and/or construction controls, or
        land management strategy to be implemented. Upon acceptance and approval, the appropriate
        public water system must issue a recommendation letter to the SLVHD listing the best
        management practices, engineered and/or construction controls, or land management strategy
        to be implemented as part of the recommendation. Any engineered and/or construction
        controls must be illustrated on the site plan or construction drawings. A public water system
        shall respond to an applicant's best management practices, engineered and/or construction
        controls, or land management strategy within forty-five days of submission. If a public water
        system does not approve of the best management practices, engineered and/or construction
        controls, or land management strategy submitted by an applicant, or cannot come to an
        agreement on the issue, the public water system will submit the reason that approval is not
        given and provide recommendations for additions or changes. The recommendation must also
        comply with this chapter and any applicable SLVHD health regulations. The SLVHD shall review
        all recommendations received and specify the conditions of any approval before forwarding the
        approval to the planning and development services division.

Best Management Practices (BMPs)

The National Best Management Practices (BMPs) Program was developed to improve management of
water quality consistently with the Federal Clean Water Act and State water quality programs. BMPs are
specific practices or actions used to reduce or control impacts to water bodies from nonpoint sources of
pollution, most commonly by reducing the loading of pollutants from such sources into storm water and
waterways. BMPs can be applied before, during, and after pollution-producing activities to reduce or
eliminate the introduction of pollutants to receiving waters.

Sedimentation is the most common source of agricultural water pollution. Most agricultural BMPs help
to control sediment carried off agricultural lands, encourage sound pest and nutrient management
techniques, and prevent or minimize potential runoff to ensure economic, environmental, and
agronomic sustainability. Adopting agricultural BMPs can ultimately increase efficiency and profits,
increase property values, improve water quality, and benefit the local community.

Agricultural BMPs can be structural or nonstructural. Structural practices, such as fences and buffer
strips, often involve some sort of construction, installation, and maintenance. Structures can be
vegetative (buffers) or nonvegetative (fencing). Nonstructural practices, on the other hand, are activities
or behaviors that reflect better planning and management and increased education and awareness.

Nonstructural BMPs

The following agroforestry practices will be implemented on the site. No-till practices leave soil
undisturbed from planting through harvest to reduce sediment and nutrients that move into water from
agricultural lands. Applying drip irrigating only when needed by crops is an effective BMP for reducing
nonpoint source pollutants and insects. Contour farming is the alignment of all farm tillage, planting,
and harvesting practices with the contour of the land. The goal is to reduce erosion and surface runoff
and thus the transport of nutrients and pesticides from the field. Contoured rows retain rainwater,
which increases infiltration and reduces runoff. Vegetative buffer strips or filter strips are strips of
grasses or other vegetation placed along streams or drainage areas to slow down runoff water, trap
sediment, filter nutrients and other pollutants, and promote the infiltration of water into the soil.

Structural BMPs

Channel Bed Protection: Water and sediment-control structures, such as beaver dam analogs (BDAs),
are erosion-control structures commonly installed across the bottoms of drainage ways to prevent
channel incising and minimize sedimentation of nearby waterbodies. These structures improve water
quality downstream by trapping sediment, controlling water flow within a drainage area, and storing
runoff water to allow it to slowly infiltrate into the soil profile.
Streambank and Slope Protection: The use of vegetation, structures, bioengineering, or management
techniques stabilize and protect riparian areas, streambanks, and steep slopes. Log drop, Mechanically
Stabilized Earth (MSE), and Reinforced Soil Slope (RSS) structures are commonly used to reduce soil
erosion causing sediment and nutrients to enter waterways by stabilizing streambanks and steep slopes.
These often incorporate woody vegetation to reinforce the structures and create healthy riparian areas
along streambanks that lower stream temperature and improve wildlife habitat.

USDA Funded Conservation Practices
   1. Grade Stabilization Structures (CSP 410)
   2. Channel Bed Stabilization (CSP 584)
   3. Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities – B.D.A.’s (CSP 643)
   4. Trails and Walkways (CSP 575)
   5. Firebreak (CSP 394)
   6. Forest Stand Improvement (CSP 666)*
   7. Biochar production (E384A)
   8. Herbaceous Weed Treatment (CSP 315)*
   9. Tree/Shrub Site Preparation (CSP 490)
   10. Food-Producing Trees and Shrubs (E612D)
   11. Riparian Forest Buffer (CSP 391)
   12. Snags, den trees, and coarse woody debris for wildlife habitat (E6660)*
   13. Upland Wildlife Habitat (CSP 645)*

*Indicates implemented projects in the management/maintenance phase.

Use Specific Best Management Practices

1. Agriculture Experimental Station (Maple Sugarbush)
    x USDA Natural Conservation Research Service (NRCA) Conservation Practice Standard (CPS)
        E612F – Sugarbush management.
    x Soil Conservation: Implement contour farming, buffer zones, and no-till practices to minimize
        water runoff and soil erosion.
    x Fertilizer & Pesticide Management: Follow USDA Certified Organic standards. No herbicides,
        pesticides, or chemical fertilizers will be applied or stored onsite.
    x Water Management: Utilize drip irrigation and rainwater harvesting to minimize water use and
        prevent contamination. Purchased 1.98-acre feet of surface stock water rights with points of
        diversion from Freeze Creek and Twin Creek in 2025 with the intent to submit a change
        application for irrigation use. Obtained rainwater harvesting permit for 2,500 gallons in 2021.

2. Apiary (Bee Yard)
    x Utah Department of Agriculture and Food licensed honeybee apiary since March 2021.
        Honeybees are artificially bred, domestic agricultural animals classified as livestock by the US
        Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
    x Annual Inspections: In compliance with the Utah Bee Inspection Act, Salt Lake County Bees and
        Noxious Weeds program conducts apiary and best management practices inspections by state
        inspectors licensed through the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food (UDAF).
    x Fertilizer & Pesticide Management: Follow USDA National Organic Standards Board (NOSB)
        Livestock Committee 2010 Apiculture Recommended Standards. USDA-accredited certifying
        agents may certify beekeeping operations under organic regulations for livestock (7 CFR 205.236
        – 205.240). No herbicides, pesticides, or chemical fertilizers will be applied or stored onsite.
    x   Chemical Use Control: Oxalic acid is a naturally occurring organic, non-toxic compound that is
        safe for bees and humans but an effective miticide treatment against varroa mites. Oxalic acid is
        ubiquitous in the environment, found naturally in many plants and vegetables, as well as in
        honey. It occurs naturally as the potassium or calcium salt in plant sap. It can be a considerable
        constituent of the dry weight of some plants, such as beet leaves, cocoa, tea, spinach, rhubarb,
        and chard. In water, its negative ion forms complexes with a number of metal ions, immobilizing
        oxalic acid as a result of this formation of complexes. Both aerobic and anaerobic conditions
        biodegrade oxalic acid in less than one day.
    x   Integrated Pest Management (IPM): Implement IMP strategies including bottom board
        screening, proper hive sanitation, drone brood removal, brood interruption, and requeening to
        reduce chemical dependence on organic miticide.
    x   Brood Management: Saskatraz honey bees are a hybrid bee breed known for their strong
        foraging and honey production, varroa mite and brood disease resistance, hygienic behavior,
        resilient wintering ability, as well as a relatively calm temperament.
    x   Vegetation Management: Maintain native flowering plants to support pollinator health.
    x   Erosion Control: Utilize ground cover and mulch around hives to minimize soil loss.

3. Farm Maintenance Garage
    x Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan: Petroleum-based liquids will be
        stored in secondary containment units to prevent leaks. Storage containers will be limited to
        five gallons. Spill kits will be kept in structures housing vehicles or equipment.
    x Waste Disposal: Used oils, lubricants, and batteries will be disposed or recycled off site.
    x Vehicle & Equipment Maintenance: Regular maintenance will be conducted off-site or in
        designated areas with spill control measures.
    x Vehicle & Equipment Storage: Vehicles will be stored indoors on non-permeable pads to
        prevent soil contamination.
    x Reporting: Any discharges of petroleum-based liquids in quantities greater than five gallons will
        be immediately reported to Emigration Improvement District Manager Eric Hawkes.

4. Fruit and Vegetable Storage & Packing Plant
    x Cleanliness Standards: Evaporators, reverse osmosis equipment, storage tanks, filters, and
         surfaces will be cleaned with soap and water immediately after each use and towel dried.
         Following the processing season, sap fermented for 3-4 weeks will be use as an acidic descaler.
         If sanitization is necessary, a 1:20 ratio of unscented household bleach to water will be used.
         Equipment will be stored in enclosed containers safe from rodents and other pests in a dry area
         free of dust, cobwebs, or other foreign matter.
    x Wastewater Management: Wastewater is drained into a packed bed media filtration basin or an
         approved alternative wastewater treatment system.
    x Chemical Use & Storage: Cleaning agents are stored in a designated, contained area.
    x Waste Management: Organic waste will be properly stored until disposed of by composting.

5. Greenhouse or Nursery
    x Water Conservation: Closed-loop irrigation systems and rainwater collection will be used.
    x Fertilizer & Pesticide Management: Follow USDA Certified Organic standards. No herbicides,
       pesticides, or chemical fertilizers will be applied or stored onsite.
    x    Nutrient Management: Regular soil testing will be conducted, and if necessary, slow-release
         organic fertilizers will be applied to prevent over-application.

6. Logging & Lumber Processing
    x The Utah Division of Forestry, Fire & State Lands has completed a Forestry Activity Plan for the
        site under Utah Rule R652-140, Utah Forest Practices Act, consistent with the federal Forest
        Stewardship Program National Standards and Guidelines.
    x Erosion & Sediment Control: Riparian buffers will be maintained to stabilize exposed soils.
    x Sustainable Harvesting: Selective cutting will be practiced to maintain established basal density
        goals by forest stand.
    x Road & Trail Maintenance: Gravel or grass-covered pathways will be maintained to minimize
        soil displacement and water contamination.
    x Lumber Processing: Logged trees will be processed into lumber for on-site storage and use. A
        portable sawmill will be operated in a purpose-built structure following best management
        practices established for Farm Maintenance Garage operations.
    x Waste Management: Sawdust, wood chips, and other woody residues will be properly stored
        until disposed of by composting or use in biochar production.

Monitoring & Compliance
  x Regular water quality testing for nitrates, phosphates, and sediments.
  x Annual audits on BMP implementation and compliance with state/local regulations will be
       conducted by an independent third-party.
  x An annual review and update of BMPs will be completed based on audit findings, monitoring
       data, and regulatory changes.

E.C.C. 9.25.110 – Review of Applications

The applicant shall submit to the appropriate public water system the best management practices and
engineered and/or construction controls, or land management strategy to be implemented. A public
water system shall respond to an applicant's best management practices, engineered and/or
construction controls, or land management strategy within forty-five days of submission.
    1. Upon acceptance and approval, the appropriate public water system must issue a
       recommendation letter to the SLVHD listing the best management practices, engineered and/or
       construction controls, or land management strategy to be implemented as part of the
       recommendation. Any engineered and/or construction controls must be illustrated on the site
       plan or construction drawings.
    2. If a public water system does not approve of the best management practices, engineered
       and/or construction controls, or land management strategy submitted by an applicant, or
       cannot come to an agreement on the issue, the public water system will submit the reason that
       approval is not given and provide recommendations for additions or changes.

EXHIBITS

    1.   FCOZ Site Plan Application Narrative
    2.   USDA NRCA Conservation Standard Practice (CSP) E612F – Sugarbush management.
    3.   USDA NOSB Livestock Committee 2010 Apiculture Recommended Standards
    4.   Freeze Creek Forest Stewardship Plan prepared by the Utah Department of Natural Resources
               Exhibit 6
Documentation of Historical Agricultural Use
                           A F_F_I D A \/_I T_

ST ATE OF urAH
                           ss.
County o f S a l t Lake)

            EMMA BERTAGNOLc, being f i r s t duly sworn, deposes and
says that she i s the s i s t e r of Leo M. Bertagno l e , now deceased,
and i s 89 years o f age;        that her father and l a t e r her brothers
were engaged in the she呸business f o r many years beginning about
1914 and had t h e i r headquarters in S a l t Lake Valley, but grazed
t h e i r sheep during the summer i n the Wasatch range of mountains
north and east of Salt Lake!          C i t y, Utah.    The herd o f sheep varied
i n numbers, but averaged about 6,000 呸
                                      wes.
            Your affiant, at times, accompanied the herds o f she呸
during summer grazing and she r e c a l l s that from about the year
1900 u n t i l recent times the shePp grazed i n Salt Lake County i n
the v i c i n i t y of the springs hereinafter described located i n
s i d e canyons i n the Emigration Canyon drainage.                 A f f i a n t further
states that the s p r i n gs wer e banked up with F: arth to form ponds and
i n some instances were collected .1n wooden troughs.                         The area
surrounding the s p r i n gs appeared      to have been used for many years
f o r watering sheep and she was told and under stood that the springs
had been used since p r i o r to the year 1900 for watering sheep and
other livestock.      The location o f the s p r i n gs i s as follows:

            Freeze Creek
            400 feet North and 7呸0 feet West of the Southeast
            Garner of Section 20, Township l North, Range 2
            cast.




            SUBSCRIBED AND .SWORN to before me t h i s 16th                      day of
July, 1976.
                                                                     _/   /

                                                                     Not.ary Public
My Commission Expires:                       Re s i d i n g .;t :

   September 5, ]978                            S a l t Lake City, Utah
                 Exhibit 7
Documentation of Current Agricultural Production
                 Evidence of Current Agricultural Production

Parcel 10-20-400-002 (SE 1/4 of SE 1/4, Sec 20, T1N R2E SLBM) — Emigration Canyon, Utah

This consolidated exhibit compiles all current agricultural production occurring on the subject
parcel for purposes of the Agriculture Protection Area (APA) approval criteria. It includes
maple sap production from native bigtooth maple, apiary operations, native fruit harvesting,
and syrup production with a local market outlet, ongoing agricultural conservation practices
that support production, and eco agritourism combining public recreation with agricultural
education and watershed awareness.

Snapshot Summary (2025)

    •   Maple sap collected: 137.50 gallons (collection window: Feb 27, 2025 – Apr 06, 2025)
        with support from Utah State University Extension funded research.
    •   Apiaries: Active, UDAF-licensed on-site apiary operations.
    •   Native fruit and value-added: Seasonal harvest (elderberry, chokecherry, Oregon grape,
        serviceberry, thimbleberry) for syrups supplied to a local cider house as ingredients for
        hard ciders.
    •   Conservation: NRCS practices implemented (e.g., CPS 666, 315, 645; improving site
        productivity, soils, and water retention.


1) Maple Sap Production (Acer grandidentatum)

    •   Trees tapped: 25 bigtooth maples (per field log and USU-supported pilot).
    •   Method: gravity tube feed into central collection; batch records maintained.
    •   Use: syrup reduction trials and research/extension collaboration; retail for hard cider.

2) Apiary Operations (UDAF-Licensed)

On-site apiary operations are registered with the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food
(UDAF). Seasonal hive placement supports pollination services and honey products at a small
scale compatible with the site’s conservation focus. (Copy of license included)

3) Native Fruit Harvest & Syrup Production (Value-Added)

Species include elderberry, chokecherry, Oregon grape, serviceberry, and thimbleberry. Fruit is
hand-harvested from mapped patches under stewardship buffers, processed into syrups using
food-grade sanitation, and supplied in closed, labeled containers to a local cider house.

Compliance & BMPs: DWSP setbacks from springs/watercourses; no synthetic
herbicides/pesticides/fertilizers stored or applied; sanitation logs; cold storage; erosion control
on footpaths; avoidance of >30% slopes.
4) Conservation-Agriculture Practices Supporting Production (NRCS/Stewardship)

Active practices include Forest Stand Improvement (CPS 666), Brush Management (CPS 314),
Woody Residue Treatment (CPS 384), Critical Area Planting (CPS 342), Upland Wildlife Habitat
Management (CPS 645), and—where permitted—channel/grade stabilization structures (e.g.,
CPS 584/410/643). These actions improve soil moisture, stability, pollinator habitat, and access,
thereby sustaining agricultural production on the site.

5) Eco-Agritourism and Compatible Recreation

Low-impact public recreation (trail-based hiking, nature observation) occurs on established
routes while agricultural and conservation activities are underway. Wayfinding and safety
signage restrict public access to protected areas. This concurrent use supports education and
community connection while maintaining operational safety.

Statutory Tie-In (APA Criteria)

The foregoing activities constitute current agricultural production for purposes of the APA
statutory factors and demonstrate the land’s viability for continued agricultural use. Agricultural
conservation practices simultaneously mitigate health/safety and environmental risks while
enhancing productivity.



Exhibits

Documentation of Existing Permitted Agricultural Use (Jan. 24, 2024) — incorporated by
reference
January 30, 2024



RE: EXISTING PERMITTED ARGICULTRUAL USE (PARCEL ID: 10-20-400-002)

Two definitions of "agriculture" apply to the subject property, the UCA and ECMT definitions:

    1. UCA 15A-1-202(1) - "Agricultural use" means a use that relates to the tilling of soil and raising of
       crops, or keeping or raising domestic animals.
    2. ECMT Code 19.04.020 - "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising of crops,
       horticulture and gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl,
       except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-
       packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.

Below I will provide evidence of the keeping and raising of domestic animals (UCA) and
horticulture (ECMT) that satisfy each definition.

I have had a Utah Department of Agriculture and Food licensed honeybee apiary (License No. 1201-
014652, 1201-016187, 1201-021411) on the property since March 18, 2021. Honeybees are artificially
bred, domestic agricultural animals classified as livestock by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA)
and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). USDA-accredited certifying agents may certify
beekeeping operations under the existing organic regulations for livestock ([7 CFR] Sections 205.236 –
205.240). The entire property is managed in accordance with organic livestock pasture regulations but is
not certified organic by the USDA. I intend to adopt the USDA National Organic Standards Board (NOSB)
Livestock Committee 2010 Apiculture Recommended Standards in the future.

I entered into contract EQIP 2018 748D43220U0 and CSP 2018 818D43220XG on September 2, 2022
with the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) to implement and/or maintain specific
conservation practices, as set forth in the attached Conservation Plan Schedule of Operations on the full
40-acre property (USDA Farm ID 1179, Tract ID 10780) through December 31, 2028. These include
horticulture practices intended to improve soil and water quality of the organic livestock pasture
foraged by the honeybees. This year I started Conservation Practice Standard (CPS) 666 - Forest Stand
Improvement and CPS 315 - Herbaceous Weed Treatment to reduce understory brush and basal density
to target levels identified for each forest stand. These practices reduce competition for water and
nutrients thereby improving the vigor of native trees found across the entire property including
elderberry, serviceberry, chokecherry, bigtooth maple, and the juniper sage grasslands.

I have experimented with fruit-producing trees and vines on the property, including American
persimmon, paw paw, medlar, hearty kiwi, and others to propagate across the property for CPS 612 -
Tree/Shrub Establishment and CPS 612D - Adding fruit producing trees and shrubs to existing plantings.
I'm also working with faculty out of Utah State University to explore the viability of commercial maple
syrup production from Bigtooth maples native on the site. USU students will be tapping dozens of trees
in February and March to harvest maple sap for syrup production.
  Producer Farm Data Report                                                                                                                                                Date: 8/10/25 10:53 PM CST
  Crop Year : 2025                                                                                                                                                         Page: 1 of 1


  Producer Name and Address                                                                                            Recording County Office Name
  LEICK, RYAN
                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE, UTAH
  9716 S SITZMARK DR
  SANDY, UT 84092-3124

  Telephone: (801) 999-8748
  Email:     rleick@avantknight.com




        Number                     Number                                                                            DCP                         CRP                     Eff DCP                    Total
                                                              Farmland                     Cropland
        of Farms                   of Tracts                                                                       Cropland                    Cropland                  Cropland                 Base Acres

               1                          1                       40.75                       0                         0                          0                        0                          0



                        ARC/                                         Relationship                                                                                             Eff
   Admin State &        PLC                        Tract /            to Farm /                                                                       DCP         CRP        DCP         Total       HEL Wetland
   County               Elig     Farm         Physical Location         Tract                     Producer              Farmland      Cropland      Cropland    Cropland   Cropland    Base Acres    Code Code
                                                   10780               Owner/
TOOELE, UT               EG       1179         SALT LAKE, UT                                  LEICK, RYAN                   40.75       0.00             0.00     0.00       0.00          0.00        06      NC
                                                                      Operator




HEL Codes:                                                                                             Wetland Codes:                                            ARC/PLC Elig Codes:
01 = HEL determinations not completed for all fields on the tract                                      NC = Wetland determinations not complete                  CG = Ineligible - Complete G/I/F History
02 = HEL field on tract. Conservation system being actively applied                                    TN = Tract does not contain a wetland                     EG = Eligible
03 = HEL field on tract. Conservation system is not required – no agricultural commodity               TY = Tract contains a wetland or farmed wetland           IG = Partial or Missing G/I/F History
04 = HEL field on tract. 2 years to implement conservation system on former CRP land                   CW = Converted wetland
05 = HEL field on tract. Conservation system not being actively applied                                PCW = Planted converted wetland
06 = NHEL: No agricultural commodity planted on undetermined fields
                                                                                                  Please visit our web site at
                                                                                                  https://ag.utah.gov/
                                                                                                  to view current LICENSE information
                                                                                                  Fee for Duplicate LICENSE : $15.00


Year: 2025                                                                                                    LICENSE: 1201-021411
                                                           As A Beekeeper
                                                               LICENSE
                                                             Ryan Leick
                                                     1475 PINECREST CANYON ROAD
                                                     EMIGRATION CANYON UT 84108
                                                         40.802908 -111.741791

 LOCATION ADDRESS                                                                                             MAILING ADDRESS
 Ryan Leick                                                                                                   Ryan Leick
 1475 PINECREST CANYON ROAD                                                                                   9716 S SITZMARK DR
 EMIGRATION CANYON UT 84108                                                                                   SANDY UT 84092
 40.802908 -111.741791




 Important Licensure Reminders
 Your license/permit is valid until the expiration date listed on this form. Approximately 60 days prior to this expiration you will receive a
 renewal notice. Please note the information listed. This is your public information of record for the division and all future correspondence
 from the division will use this information. If you move, it is your responsibility to notify us of the change. Maintaining current information
 with us is the easiest way to ensure continuous licensure.

                                                                                                                 Expiration: 12/31/2025
Landowner Objectives


     Family owned/operated permaculture farm on 40-
     acres of pristine wilderness in Emigration Canyon.




     Living food forest for guests to enjoy and understand
     the role of silviculture in watershed conservation and
     carbon sequestration while advancing high-altitude,
     semi-arid agroforestry.



     Experimental research station to validate economic
     incentives of dryland agriculture in harmony with
     environmental conservation.
Shared Objectives

       Preserve water quality in   Restrict public and pet
       EID’s source protection     access to sensitive
       zone                        watershed



       Mitigate the risk of        Minimize physical
       wildland fire while         disturbance to the land,
       restoring mosaic habitat    including natural causes
                     Federal Investment
Record of Decision authorizing approximately $200k in US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) Natural Conservation Resource Service (NRCS) grants, including:
    1. Grade Stabilization Structures (CSP 410)
    2. Channel Bed Stabilization (CSP 584)
    3. Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities – B.D.A.’s (CSP 643)
    4. Trails and Walkways (CSP 575)
    5. Firebreak (CSP 394)
    6. Forest Stand Improvement (CSP 666)
    7. Biochar production (E384A)
    8. Herbaceous Weed Treatment (CSP 315)
    9. Tree/Shrub Site Preparation (CSP 490)
    10. Food-Producing Trees and Shrubs (E612D)
    11. Riparian Forest Buffer (CSP 391)
    1 2 . Snags, den trees, and coarse woody debris for wildlife habitat (E6660)
    1 3 . Upland Wildlife Habitat (CSP 645)
               Exhibit 8
Freeze Creek Forest - Conceptual Site Design
CONCEPTUAL
SITE DESIGN

FREEZE CREEK
FOREST
Emigration Canyon, UT
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
License: Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International

Produced by Backyard Abundance
Revised: January 2024




Figure 1. Cover
Shiitake mushroom (Lentinula edodes), ginseng (Panax
quinquefolius), and hazelnut (Corylus americana) are all
high-value agroforestry crops.
Photos by dominik18s, Priya Jaishanker, Fred Meyer / CC BY ND

Figure 2. Above
Once established, the Chinese chestnut (Castanea
mollissima) tree will yield food and habitat for decades.
Photo by Otto Phokus
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                        AGROFORESTRY DESIGN STRATEGIES
                                                           1 Introduction .................................................................................................................... 5
                                                           2 Goals..............................................................................................................................   7
                                                           3 Design Steps.................................................................................................................. 9
                                                           4 Organizing Patterns ......................................................................................................11
                                                           5 Crop Yields and Harvest Times.................................................................................... 16
                                                           6 Establishment and Management ................................................................................. 18

                                                         AGROFORESTRY DESIGNS
                                                           7 Alley Crop Orchard....................................................................................................... 21
                                                           8 Edible Forest Edge....................................................................................................... 28
                                                           9 Shady Edible Forest..................................................................................................... 33
                                                           10 Edible Riparian Buffer ................................................................................................ 38
                                                           11 Edible Windbreak ....................................................................................................... 44



                                                         REFERENCES
Figure 3. Pawpaw
The pawpaw (Asimina triloba) is a mid-sized
understory tree that yields potato-sized fruit in part
shade or full sun.
Photo by Fred Meyer
AGROFORESTRY DESIGN STRATEGIES




Figure 4. Elderberries
Elderberry shrubs (Sambucus canadensis) yield
fruit in full sun or part shade and prefer moist, well-
drained soil.
Photo by Andy Rogers / CC BY SA
                                                                                    Introduction   5




1 INTRODUCTION
Agroforestry is the growing of a combination of crops (plants, animals, fungi) and trees in
forest-inspired agricultural systems. These systems benefit human communities through a
greater connection to landscapes, improved stewardship of resources, and enhanced eco-
nomic opportunities.1

Following best-practice agroforestry designs allow producers to overcome the significant
time commitments, monetary investments, and risk associated with researching planting
configurations, estimating implementation costs and payback, and experimenting with
planting techniques.

This document provides a custom design of edible agroforestry practices to aid Freeze
Creek Forest with the design, implementation, and management of environmentally-
beneficial ecosystems that support personal income and community needs. Much
information is summarized from existing resources.

Freeze Creek Forest is located on a 40-acre parcel in Emigration Canyon, UT approximately
six miles east of Salt Lake City. The site is comprised of a 10-acre mature white Fir stand
mixed with gambrel Oak, bigtooth Maple, and quaking Aspen. Chokecherry, blue Elderberry,
and Utah Serviceberry are also found intermixed in this stand and the surrounding sage
juniper grassland. The site forms a bowl with all aspects present with slopes exceeding 50
percent accounting for the majority of the parcel.




Figure 5. Aronia Berry
The black aronia berry shrub (Aronia melanocarpa)
yields nutritious berries in a wide variety of soil
types.
Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                  Introduction     6

Overview of Site Areas


Alley Crop Orchard. Grow agricultural
crops between strips of food-bearing
trees and shrubs.

Edible Forest Edge. Maximize food growth
potential at the edge of an existing forest.

Shady Edible Forest. Incorporate edibles
and medicinals under the canopy of a forest.

Edible Riparian Buffer. Protect
waterways from pollution and erosion with
an edible low-land habitat.

Edible Windbreak. Protect crops,
livestock, and buildings with a linear
planting of edible trees and shrubs.
Homestead Orchard. Increase the value
and yield of the land with intensively
managed edible landscaping around
agricultural accessory use structures.                                                              Alley Crop Orchard
Silvopasture. Silvopasture, the practice                Edible
of combining forestry and animal grazing,               Forest Edge
is addressed in all designs. Most research                            Edible Riparian
separates silvopasture from other agroforest-
ry practices, but given the maintenance value
                                                                      Buffer
provided by animals across many settings,
specialized techniques are described in each
design. In addition, honeybee apiaries will be      Shady Edible
an integral part of each design.                    Forest

                                                                                        Edible
                                                                                        Windbreak




Figure 6. Realistic Designs
Locations on Freeze Creek Forest were used
to provide realistic designs and plant
selections. Freeze Creek is located at 6,400' MSL
in northern Utah in hardiness zone 5b.


                                                                                                                75'      0'                 150'



                                                                                                                  SCALE IN FEET 1" = 150'
                                                                                        Goals   7




2 GOALS
Each design area attempts to meet a variety of important goals to ensure it maximizes
value to the producer and the landscape.




Figure 7. Chestnut and Aronia Berry Tour
Tom Wahl, co-owner of Red Fern Farm, hosts
educational field day tours of their family-owned
tree nursery near Wapello, Iowa.
Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                                               Goals   8


LOW MAINTENANCE                                                                                     Water Management
An established agroforestry system requires some management even if it was designed to              Perennial plants are better than annuals at conserving water on the landscape. The persistent
mimic self-renewing, self-fertilizing, and self-maintaining properties of a diverse woodland.       canopy created by trees and shrubs holds water for wildlife and insects while slowing rain
Leaving energy-intensive maintenance (seeding, planting, weeding, fertilizing, watering) to         impacts on soil. Perennial plant roots slow water flow year-round and turn soil into a moisture-
plant, insect, and animal allies frees up time for additional harvesting, processing, and rest-     retaining sponge. These features help create a drought-resistant landscape that eliminates
ing. The grower’s role is management—not maintenance—of the ecosystem, guiding it in a              erosion problems.
desired direction through periodic disturbances of mowing, thinning, pruning, and harvesting.
Through these methods, growers become an integrated working part of nature, catalyzing              Materials
healthy ecosystems that improve over time without constant oversight.                               Food-bearing plants and their supporting species can have valuable secondary yields of
                                                                                                    materials. The trunk of a honey locust (Gleditsia triacanthos) can provide rot-resistant lumber
HIGH YIELDS                                                                                         and can serve as a living fence post when thoughtfully placed. Hazelnut (Corylus americana)
Food and profit often receive the most emphasis when designing and managing an agricultur-          wood can be used for basketry or burned for charcoal.
al landscape. Maximizing long-term success, however, means designing for additional yields
that come from the development of an entire system, not just a single element.2 3                   Habitat and Pest Management
                                                                                                    The majority of insects and wildlife benefit perennial crops. Without birds and insects the
Agroforestry emulates nature’s processes and patterns to decrease labor and financial inputs.
                                                                                                    expensive and time-consuming burden of pollinating and protecting crops falls exclusively on
While the food productivity of a single plant is considered, yields are additionally measured       producers. Through proper plant selection and layout, we can provide homes and support for
in terms of the entire system: labor saved, soil fertility increased, weeds suppressed, habitat     beneficial helpers while discouraging severe crop herbivory.5
created, carbon sequestered, beauty enjoyed.
For example, planting chives (Allium spp.) and gooseberries (Ribes uva-crispa) under the light      Climate Change Mitigation
shade of a pear tree (Pyrus spp.) creates a system of cumulative yields: chives accumulate          Pulling atmospheric carbon into soil and plants helps mitigate climate change. Perennial
calcium and potassium in the soil for use by the gooseberry and pear while also supporting          crops sequester vastly more carbon than annual crops due to their longer growing period and
pollinators and confusing pests with a strong smell, the pear protects the gooseberries from        minimal soil disturbance.6
scorching sunny days, and the thorny gooseberry can help deter some animals from browsing
the pear. These yields could not be achieved if the elements were planted separately.               EFFICIENT HARVEST
                                                                                                    Patches of the site are designed to accommodate a planned harvesting schedule with ac-
Growing food and increasing environmental health are typically considered to be separate
                                                                                                    cessible pathways and physical “windows” into vegetation. Plant varieties are grouped based
endeavors, but by holistically viewing the landscape as a system, edible agroforestry dem-
                                                                                                    upon a common ripening period to minimize the fuel consumption and the time required
onstrates that achieving both goals is possible on a single plot of land. The following yields      to move through the site. Plants are spaced based upon equipment requirements to make
can be realized and greatly increased through the integration of plants, wildlife, insects, and     reaching a patch and harvesting within it as efficient as possible.
humans.

Food                                                                                                RESILIENCY AND STABILITY
Integrating a food-bearing plant into a polyculture may decrease its food yield due to competi-     Mimicking a woodland’s vegetation layers, density, and diversity are fundamental to creating
tion with other plants for nutrients, water, and sunlight. A thoughtful layout can minimize this    resiliency and stability. Left unmanaged, the yields and functions of a well-designed agrofor-
competition and promote collaboration so that the entire polyculture produces a crop that           estry site stabilize or improve over the years even when faced with extreme drought, herbivo-
is greater than the individual plant. Forage for livestock is also a valuable yield that can be     ry, wind, and other external stresses.
incorporated.

Money
Profit is obviously important but can be difficult to estimate due to many factors: seasonal
weather patterns, maturity of perennial crops, soil fertility over time, fluctuations in regional
market demand, value-added processing. Establishing annual crops in and around maturing
perennial patches can help mitigate these factors.

For information about effective economic planning, see Economic Considerations in the Cen-
ter for Agroforestry’s Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices.4

Soil Fertility
Industrialized agricultural systems assume soil will degrade over time and therefore attempt
to simply minimize losses. Agroforestry systems seek to build new soil, mimicking nature’s
processes to indefinitely increase tilth and nutrient-holding capacity.
                                                                                 Design Steps   9




3 DESIGN STEPS
Designing a landscape that is based upon ecological principles requires thought, patience,
and adherence to a good design process.

These following steps were used in creating the Conceptual Site Plans for each area.

1. Articulation of goals
2. Base mapping
3. Inventory and assessment
4. Concept designs
5. Plant list
6. Conceptual Site Plan




Figure 8. Drawing
Tracing paper on top of a base map is an
inexpensive and effective method of creating
landscape drawings from a variety of viewpoints.
Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                                         Design Steps   10


ARTICULATION OF GOALS
The goal of Freeze Creek Forest is to create a living food forest garden for the public to enjoy
                                                                                                     The availability to harvest crops is another limitation. Time windows for harvesting throughout
and understand the role of silviculture in watershed conservation and carbon sequestration
                                                                                                     the seasons were considered and species and varieties selected that accommodate the
while advancing high-altitude, semi-arid agroforestry practices. The intent is to validate
                                                                                                     schedule.
economic incentives of sustainable agriculture in harmony with environmental conservation.

BASE MAPPING                                                                                         CONCEPT DESIGNS
                                                                                                     Initial designs were sketched using free flowing bubble-like shapes and loose lines. The entire
A scaled map of the site was created identifying elements that can and cannot be removed.
                                                                                                     landscape with functional areas were created using the site inventory and assessment to
                                                                                                     inform this brain-storming. Each area is designed with a specific purpose that helps fulfill the
                                                                                                     producer's goals. The ecosystem of each area is intended to help define plant communities:
INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT                                                                             forest, woodland, shrubland, prairie, wetland. Pathways are defined between areas to create
Existing site elements were identified and documented for a thorough understanding of all            an elegant flow throughout the landscape. Beneficial relationships are created between
limiting factors, landforms, water flow and erosion patterns, circulation paths, vegetation,         elements to increase their value; for example, a terraced swale on contour is used to hold and
wildlife and insect life, microclimates, frost pockets, wind speed and direction, pesticide drift,   infiltrate rainwater.
buildings, soil fertility, soil texture and drainage, aesthetics, sun and shade, and surrounding
ecosystems. Usage zones were designed with frequency of areas are visited in mind.                   PLANT LISTS
                                                                                                     The design started with a desired plant list. The mature size of each plant, its optimal growing
During the design steps, these careful assessments helped in placing the right plant in the
                                                                                                     conditions, and its functions were identified. Plants were identified that suppress weeds (i.e.,
right place which will greatly improve chances for success while lowering maintenance chores.
                                                                                                     ground covers, fix nitrogen in the soil, accumulate nutrients, and/or attract beneficial insects
                                                                                                     and birds. Including these highly functional plants in the landscape means less maintenance
Species Inventory                                                                                    because plants, animals, and insects perform this maintenance.
The function of existing vegetation on the landscape were inventoried, including all weeds,
native species and exotic species. For each plant, sunlight conditions, soil types, common           For each area in the concept design, desired plants were divided into individual plant lists
plant groups, and amount of shelter were noted. This research was used to guide the search           using the designated ecosystem, desired functions, and limiting factors to guide decisions.
for desired plants that have attributes similar to thriving plants on the land. This approach will
greatly increase plant establishment, yields, disease resistance, pest tolerance, and drought-       CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
tolerance.                                                                                           For each area in the concept design, infrastructure elements, trees, and shrubs were first
Existing edible and marketable plants, such as Elderberry and Serviceberry have been                 selected and then herbaceous plants and ground covers placed. The area’s plant list was
prioritized in the existing forest. These plants are expected to expand or establishing higher-      used to place plants based upon desired harvesting schedules. Trees and shrubs were
yielding varieties to greatly increase chances of success.                                           selected based upon their mature size to minimize future competition for sunlight.

Water Flow Patterns                                                                                  Several conceptual site plans were created for different periods to show growth over time. For
                                                                                                     example, the alley crop contains mostly windbreak and soil anchor trees during its initial
An emphasis was placed on precisely identifying the contours of the landscape to better              establishment. After 3-5 years, the widening tree canopy will help to establish perennial plans
understand how to minimize drought. USGS contour maps were used for initial planning and             with the understory shielding harsh sunlight.
design. Detailed maps will be created from USDA GIS data collected on site using Real-Time
Kinematic (RTK) via NTRIP positioning correction transmission protocol for more precise              The Center for Agroforestry’s Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices guidelines
maps and designs.                                                                                    were incorporated to develop the work plan, site assessment, and market plan .10
Eroded areas represent high-priority opportunities for catching and impounding large amounts
of water for the benefit of nearby plants.

Limiting Factors
The site’s limiting factors and resources are key to designing resilient polycultures that
produce high yields at desired times. Latitude, annual precipitation, landform, and biome are
factors that cannot be easily changed. Plants were selected to match the site instead of
attempting to alter the site so desired plants will thrive on it.

Plant selections will minimizing competition between plants for limited moisture, nutrients, or
sunshine by using limitations as a guide.9 For example, species with high drought tolerance or
deep taproots, or both, were selected to not compete for scarce moisture.
                                                                          Organizing Patterns    11




4 ORGANIzING PATTERNS
Each agroforestry design shares an underlying framework of patterns that aid in the
maintenance, yield consistency, stability, and resiliency of the system. Understanding these
patterns allows plant substitutions and design changes to be made for different growing condi-
tions and desired yields.




Figure 9. Ostrich Fern Fiddlehead
Young shoots of the ostrich fern (Matteuccia
struthiopteris) are edible and can be prepared like
asparagus.
Photo by Priya Jaishanker / CC BY ND
                                                                                                                                                                                         Organizing Patterns   12


WATER MANAGEMENT AND LANDSCAPE CONTOUR
Plants need water to thrive, so a critical first step was to carefully create a water
management plan. Topography, current soil moisture levels, annual rainfall, and each
plant’s water needs were considered and then a plan that distributes and infiltrates
rainwater at specific locations was created. Establishing swales and ponds, keyline plowing,
and placing pathways and plants on a landscape’s contour are water management
techniques that will form a strong foundation for perennial crops. See The Keyline Plan for
information about keyline design and plowing to create a drought-resistant landscape.11

PATHWAYS
Decreasing management time requires that site designs accommodate light equipment, off-
highway vehicles (OHV), wheel barrows, and other equipment. Path widths and turn-around
headlands (space at the end of a field) are based upon existing and future equipment.

WOODLAND ECOSYSTEM
Achieving the many goals of an edible agroforestry system requires a high input of energy.
This energy can come from our labor and a declining supply of fossil fuels or we can place a
majority of the burden onto Mother Nature’s strong shoulders. Understanding the ecological
niche of plants is key to leveraging nature’s free benefits.
Most orchard crops originated in woodlands. All design templates, therefore emulate a wood-
land ecosystem as a design foundation to ensure the broadest array of these crops will
reside in familiar biological communities with desired sun, soil, nutrient, and water needs         Figure 10. Contour Planting
fulfilled. This ecosystem has a high level of ecological productivity, giving plants a home in      These newly planted fruit trees at Versaland Farm follow the contour of the landscape to slow rain water
which they will inherently thrive and maximize food yields without constant oversight.              and help it infiltrate rather than run off.
                                                                                                    Photo by Paul Trieu
Where existing mature forest stands are overgrown, tree spacing will adhere to the diameter
plus ½ guide, that is the distance in feet between adjacent trees should be equal to 1½ times
the tree diameter in inches. Upright, undamaged, full crowned trees will be retained where
possible. Thining activities will be performed during late fall and winter.

Infested trees will be felled by early May, before the adult beetles emerge. Mechanical
treatments include splitting, chippping, and peeling bark from infested trees to be burned are
highly effective but also highly labor intensive.

NATIVES AND ECOLOGICAL ANALOGS
Whenever possible, species native to the property were selected to take advantage of their
inherent ability to adapt to regional stresses and provide desired habitat for local wildlife and
insects. If a native could not appropriately fulfill a needed function or fit within a space, an
attempt was made to find an ecological analog: a species or variety that has a high degree
of similarity with the native species. For example, the native saskatoon (Amelanchier
arborea) may be too tall to grow alongside a semi-dwarf fruit tree in a Mountain West
polyculture so the shorter Regent variety of the Amelanchier alnifolia species could be
selected instead.

When selecting any species, especially non-natives, the plant’s replication methods
were carefully researched, which can vary depending upon the region and
site conditions. Highly dispersive and expansive species were avoided.


                                                                                                    Figure 11. Saskatoon Harvest
                                                                                                    Saskatoons (also known as serviceberries and Juneberries) yield sweet berries in late June. They have
                                                                                                    few pest or disease problems. Native species can be found throughout much of the United States.
                                                                                                    Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                            Organizing Patterns    13


VEGETATION LAYERS
The vertical structure of a woodland is defined by several vegetation layers, all of which are
capable of yielding food. Each layer interacts with the other layers to keep the entire system                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                              1. Tall Tree
functioning. Resiliency in the woodland is increased with more vegetation layers due to redun-                                                                                2. Low Tree
dant functions and additional availability of species niches.                                                                                                                 3. Shrub
                                                                                                                                                                              4. Herb
The soil of healthy woodlands is composed of mycorrhizal fungi due to the constant presence                                                                                   5. Ground
of woody trees and shrubs. Therefore, to help orchard crops thrive, a fungal-dominated soil                                                                                   6. Root
must be encouraged by establishing a large number of trees and shrubs with undiseased                                                                                         7. Vine
debris from regular pruning dropped directly to the ground. Interplanting species that can be
exclusively used for mulch is recommended, such as the fast-growing, nitrogen-fixing black
alder (Alnus glutinosa).

Tall Tree                                                                                                                                                                     2
Some woodlands may not have a tall tree layer or may only have only a few tall trees. The                                                                   7
overstory defines the amount of sunlight available to lower layers and consumes the most
                                                                                                                              3
nutrients and water in the woodland. Due to this fact, great consideration must be given to the
                                                                                                                                                      4
amount of food yield desired in lower layers; a sparse overstory will increase food yields in
lower layers (see “High-Yielding Upper Canopy” on page 13). Examples: bigtooth maple (Acer
grandidentatum), chestnut (Castanea mollissima), heartnut (Juglans ailantifolia).                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                     6
Low Tree                                                                                          Figure 12. Vegetation Layers
Understory trees are often shade tolerant, but fruit yields increase with more sun. Trees in      Up to 7 layers can exist in an edible agroforestry planting.
this layer can be designed to replace tall trees from accidental or purposeful disturbances.      Drawing by Fred Meyer
Examples: elderberry (Sambucus cerulea), saskatoon (Amel-anchier alnifolia), pawpaw
(Asimina triloba), pear (Pyrus spp.), apple (Malus spp.), hickory (Carya ovata).                  VEGETATION DENSITY
Shrub                                                                                             A woodland tree canopy ranges from 40% to 99% coverage (a forest has 100% coverage).12
                                                                                                  Most orchard crops yield more food with increased sunlight. The density of a woodland’s up-
Just like understory trees, shrubs are often shade tolerant and add diversity and yields to the   per canopy, therefore determines the amount of food that can be expected to grow in lower
system. Examples: aronia berry (Aronia melanocarpa), gooseberry (Ribes uva-crispa), bush          layers.
cherry (Prunus japonica), hazelnut (Corylus americana).
                                                                                                  High-Yielding Upper Canopy
Herb                                                                                              To maximize food yields in the upper canopy, space trees so their mature crowns touch, but
In addition to providing food and medicine, the flowers and vegetation of perennial herbs often   do not interlock. This design keeps the most sunlight in the upper canopy which may decrease
support a wide variety of insects that assist in the pollination and protection of the system.    yields in lower layers.
Examples: ginseng (Panax quinquefolius), anise hyssop (Agastache foeniculum), purple
coneflower (Echinacea purpurea), comfrey (Symphytum x uplandicum), rhubarb (Rheum x               High-Yielding Understory
cultorum).
                                                                                                  To maximize food yields in lower layers, focus first on providing required sunlight to under-
Ground                                                                                            story plants and then integrate upper canopy trees. For example, space understory shrubs so
                                                                                                  their mature crowns do not interlock and then surround or bookend them with trees ensuring
Low-growing, spreading perennials help suppress weeds and conserve moisture. Huge                 mature tree crowns do not shade the shrubs.
amounts of nutrients are stored and cycled in the herb and ground layers. Examples: Utah
sweetpea (Lathyrus pauciflorus), Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens), garden strawberry         Increase Yields in New Orchards
(Fragaria ananassa), yarrow (Achillea millefolium), mushrooms.
                                                                                                  Far more sunlight is available to the lower layers of a newly planted orchard. Establish
Root                                                                                              fast-yielding crops between trees to provide yields while trees mature; for example, annual
                                                                                                  vegetables, French sorrel (Rumex acetosa), rhubarb (Rheum x cultorum), aronia berry (Aronia
Plant roots can help condition poor soil sometimes to great depths. Examples: Jerusalem           melanocarpa), and bush cherry (Prunus japonica) often provide food within two years after
artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus), alfalfa (Medicago sativa).                                      planting. As the canopy closes, sun-loving species can be replaced with shade-tolerant plants;
                                                                                                  for example, gooseberry (Ribes uva-crispa), and elderberry (Sambucus canadensis).
Vine
Vines can grow in any layer using other layers for structural support. Pruning may be required
to ensure they do not suffocate other vegetation. Examples: hardy kiwi (Actinidia arguta),
grape (Vitis spp.), maypop (Passiflora incarnata).
                                                                                                                                                                                             Organizing Patterns   14


VEGETATION DIVERSITY
Physical and functional diversity in a woodland increases the ecosystem’s stability, resilience,
and self-maintenance.13 Competition between plants with similar resource needs decreases
yields. Resiliency and yields are maximized by using a variety of diverse plants which
encourage harmony and cooperation.

Resource Partitioning
Varied plant heights minimize competition for sunlight. Plants with roots of varied depths are
also utilized to partition the soil for nutrients and water; for example, taprooted comfrey
(Symphy-tum x uplandicum), dandelion (Taraxacum officinale), and French sorrel (Rumex
acetosa) are unlikely to sap resources from a nearby shallow-rooted fruit tree.

Polycultures
A well-designed, intercropped mix of plant species provides several benefits:
• Food yields increase due to decreased competition for similar sunlight, water, and nutrient
   resources.
• Disease problems decrease because parasites cannot jump as easily between different
   species.
• Herbivory is decreased because it is more difficult for pests to find desired plants.

Integrated pest management strategies often suggest avoiding monocultures of long rows
and large masses of the same species.14 When designing blocks or short rows of plants, try to
increase harvest ease by keeping species with similar ripening times in the same patch.
                                                                                                      Figure 13. Strawberry and Garlic Polyculture
Uneven Structure                                                                                      This polyculture of strawberries and garlic yields more food per square foot together than it would if the
A woodland with a level canopy height is not desired. Plantings of varied dimensions                  plants were separated. The different leaves and root structures do not compete for sunlight or water.
                                                                                                      Photo by Fred Meyer
throughout all layers are established to promote air circulation, increase sunlight availability,
and increase niches for beneficial insects, birds, and soil organisms.15 Intermixing varieties of
the same species creates varied heights and widths while also increasing disease and pest
resistance. Within rows, plants are slightly offset rather than planted in a straight line.
Redundancy
To increase system resiliency, similar functions are fulfilled multiple times in different ways. If
deer nibble all fragrant false indigo (Amorpha nana) to the ground, a backup ground cover of
perennial Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens) exists to replace its nitrogen-fixing function.

FUNCTIONALLY INTERCONNECTED POLYCULTURE
Maximizing food yields is a primary focus, but to remain stable, resilient, and self-maintaining,
a woodland ecosystem requires that its inhabitants fulfill other functions, not just producing
food. Every area was designed to build soil, suppress weeds, cycle nutrients, support
pollinators, and resist pests by leveraging inherent functions of plants and attracted animals.
Elements in the ecosystem all work in an interdependent web of relationships, each fulfilling
each other’s needs and caring for one another. Ideally, a single plant, insect, or animal will
provide multiple functions to the system, increasing chances for redundancy and other yields.
Soil Building Nutrient Accumulators
Plants that generate biomass filled with nutrients accumulated from subsoil or gathered from
topsoil detritus are used to eliminate fertilizers. Comfrey (Symphytum x uplandicum),
dandelion (Taraxacum officinale), French sorrel (Rumex acetosa), and Roman chamomile
(Chamaemelum nobile) are examples of plants that build soil and reduce leaching losses by
accumulating nutrients and then releasing them through root and foliage decomposition.
                                                                                                      Figure 14. Comfrey
                                                                                                      The deep roots of comfrey bring up nutrients from the subsoil and do not compete with surrounding plants.
Nutrient accumulators are placed near the dripline of the mature outer canopy of food-bearing
                                                                                                      Photo by Fred Meyer
plants where feeder roots are commonly located.
                                                                                                                                                                                           Organizing Patterns    15


Nitrogen Fixers                                                                                      Voles will also be deterred by mixing gravel with the soil at the base of trees, installing
Nitrogen is often the least available soil nutrient, but one that all plants need. Nitrogen-fixing   hardware cloth around trunks, encouraging predator activity, and establishing vole-repelling
plants sequester atmospheric nitrogen and then release (“fix”) it into the soil where it can be      plants, such as sweet woodruff.18 Providing habitat for predatory snakes and birds will also
used by surrounding plants. Good examples include leadplant (Amorpha canescens), lupines             help manage rodent population.
(Lupinus spp.), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), and clovers (Trifolium spp.).
                                                                                                     Nectaries
Just as with nutrient accumulating plants, nitrogen fixers are placed near the mature outer          Flowers blooming throughout the growing year provide support for beneficial insects and birds
canopy of food-bearing plants where feeder roots are commonly located.                               that in turn provide pollination and pest-management services. Native flowers are
                                                                                                     incorporated that bloom early or late in the season or have blooms for 2-4 months. This
Ground Cover Weed Suppressors                                                                        includes plants with short and long nectar tubes to encourage insect diversity.
Ground covers can form a thick mat under crops and in pathways to make it difficult for              Most flowers serve as food sources for “generalist” insects, but also select plants that attract
weeds to gain a foothold. Ideal ground covers are low-growing, provide habitat for beneficial        “specialist” predatory insects to help control pests. All plant lists in this document designate
insects and soil organisms, do not harbor pests, eliminate erosion, do not compete with crop         nectary plants as generalists (G), specialists (S), or both (GS).
plants for water and nutrients, and decrease or eliminate mulching and mowing
maintenance. Achieving all these goals can be difficult and trade-offs are often needed.             Long-blooming examples include anise hyssop (Agastache foeniculum), purple coneflower
                                                                                                     (Echinacea purpurea), blanket flower (Gaillardia aristata), fennel (Foeniculum vulgare), aster
Vegetation under crop plants yield soil development, pollinator habitat, and reduced
                                                                                                     (Aster spp.), mint (Mentha spp.) and yarrow (Achillea millefolium).
maintenance, but sacrifice some food yields due to competition for nutrients and water.
Yields from the entire system are less important then trying to design for that balance.             Pest Confusers
Permanent vegetation under crop plants that eliminate mowing, but also reduce food yields,
were selected instead of maximizing food yields by replacing vegetation under crop plants            Strong-scented plants can confuse pests and reduce their ability to find crops. Good aromatic
with chop-and-drop mulch from native grasses.                                                        plants include anise hyssop (Agastache foeniculum), yarrow (Achillea spp.), bee balm (Mo-
                                                                                                     narda fistulosa), broadleaf sage (Salvia officinalis), and mint (Mentha spp.).
When designing a ground cover mix, 2-4 species with both clumping to accomodate all weed
niches and running habits in the each area. After a few years, the clumpers will appear to be
islands in a sea of runners.                                                                                             Crop Tree Size and Setting
• Running species spread indefinitely, weaving among other plants filling in soil and sunlight                           • Standard-sized crop           • Standard-sized crop trees that are 4+ years old.
  gaps. Examples: dwarf yarrow (Achillea tomentosa), wild strawberry (Fragaria virginiana),                                trees less than 4 years
                                                                                                                           old.                          • High vole activity.          • Low vole activity.
  sweet woodruff (Galium odoratum), peppermint (Mentha spicata), apple mint (Mentha                                      • Dwarf crop trees of any       • Large area.                  • Medium to small
  suaveolens).                                                                                                             age.                                                           area.
• Clumping species grow to only a specific width and typically spread slowly. Clumpers
                                                                                                      Pathway            • Slow-growing grass mix        • Slow-growing grass mix with Dutch white clover.
  should be tall enough to ensure they are not overtaken by runners. Examples: creeping               ground cover         with alfalfa.
  thyme (Thymus serpyllum), oregano (Vulgare hirtum), chives (Allium spp.), Roman chamo-
  mile (Chamaemelum nobile), self-heal (Prunella vulgaris).                                           Crop               • Mulch of mowed grass          • Chives, mint, sweet          • Chives, dwarf yar-
                                                                                                      ground cover         and alfalfa blown from          woodruff.                      row, wild strawberry,
                                                                                                                           pathway.                      • Slow-growing grass             Dutch white clover,
See Washington State University’s Orchard Floor Management publications16 for additional                                 • Woodchip mulch.                 mix.                           creeping thyme,
information and research about weed management strategies.                                                                                                                                oregano, Roman
                                                                                                                                                                                          chamomile, self-
Slow-Growing Grass Mix                                                                                                                                                                    heal.
The shallow, dense roots of conventional turfgrass robs young orchard crops of nutrients and          Notes              • Young trees grow              • For settings com-            • Plants may be cost-
water. A slow-growing, lower-competition native grass mix for pathways and mowed areas                                     faster in mulch with no         pletely covered by             ly if they cannot be
under tree crops will use:17                                                                                               competition from ground         grass, trees spaced            established through
• Creeping red fescue (Festuca rubra ssp. rubra).                                                                          covers.                         evenly in a grid pattern       direct seeding.
                                                                                                                         • Due to weak root sys-           will improve mowing
• Chewings fescue (Festuca rubra ssp. commutata) and/or hard fescue (Festuca longifolia).                                  tems, crop yields from          efficiency.
• Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens).                                                                                   dwarf trees decrease          • Dropped fruit may be
                                                                                                                           when ground covers are          difficult to harvest in
Deter Voles                                                                                                                present.                        tall ground covers.
                                                                                                                         • Successfully using            • Rotating geese or
Eliminating vole habitat is important as these rodents can girdle and kill trees by eating bark.                           mowed and blown grass           other animals can
Voles take up residence in most tall ground covers and deep woodchip mulch. They prefer to                                 as mulch requires nar-          keep grass low while
eat white clover so this will not be planted under crop trees where vole activity is high.                                 row crop rows.                  cleaning up fallen fruit.


                                                                                                     Figure 15. Ground Cover Strategies
                                                                                                     Use the tree size and setting to inform a mix of ground covers that will maximize crop yields while
                                                                                                     suppressing weeds.
                                                                  Crop Yields and Harvest Times       16




5 CROP YIELDS AND
HARVEST TIMES
Crop yields and harvest times are influenced by hardiness zone, sunlight and water availabil-
ity, soil conditions, competition from other plants, pruning regimes, rootstock, variety, and plant
age.




Figure 16. Black Cohosh
Black cohosh (Actaea racemosa) is a medicinal
herb that can be grown under the shade of black
walnut and other tree crops.
Photo by rockerBOO / CC BY
                                                                                                                                                           Crop Yields and Harvest Times   17

Approximate crop harvest times and yields for which data was available is shown in Figure
16. This information was used to inform decisions on which crops to grow. Harvest labor is
reduced by grouping crops with similar harvest times.
Form    Common Name                Genus / Species             Hardiness   Crops     Crop Yield       Mar         Apr        May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep          Oct        Nov
                                                               Zones                 Pounds / Plant
Vine    Grape, Fox                 Vitis labrusca              5-8         Fruit         12.5
Tree    Apple, Dwarf               Malus spp.                  4-8         Fruit         48.0
Tree    Cherry, Sour Dwarf         Prunus cerasus              4-8         Fruit         22.0
Tree    Cherry, Sweet Dwarf        Prunus avium                5-8         Fruit         22.0
Tree    Chestnut, Chinese          Castanea mollissima         4-8         Nuts          30.0
Tree    Crabapple, Siberian        Malus baccata               3           Fruit
Tree    Mulberry                   Morus spp.                  5-9         Berries       17.5
Tree    Pawpaw                     Asimina triloba             4-8         Fruit         12.5
Tree    Peach, Dwarf               Prunus persica              4-8         Fruit         57.0
Tree    Pear, Asian                Pyrus pyrifolia             4-9         Fruit
Tree    Pear, European Dwarf       Pyrus communis              4-9         Fruit
Tree    Persimmon, American        Disospiros virginiana       5-9         Fruit         27.5
Tree    Plum, American Standard    Prunus americana            3-8         Fruit        122.5
Tree    Plum, European Dwarf       Prunus domestica            4-8         Fruit          8.8
Tree    Plum, Japanese             Prunus salicina             6-10        Fruit
Tree    Walnut, Black              Juglans nigra               4-7         Nuts         120.0
Shrub   Aronia Berry, Black        Aronia melanocarpa          3-9         Berries
Shrub   Beach Plum                 Prunus maritima Ecos        3-6         Fruit
Shrub   Blueberry, Half-High       Vaccinium spp.              3-7         Berries
Shrub   Blueberry, Highbush        Vaccinium corymbosum        3-7         Berries         7.5
Shrub   Blueberry, Lowbush         Vaccinium angustifolium     2-6         Berries         1.9
Shrub   Cherry, Bush               Prunus japonica             4-8         Fruit
Shrub   Currant, Black             Ribes nigrum                3-7         Berries        10.0
Shrub   Currant, Red               Ribes silvestre             3-7         Berries         6.5
Shrub   Elderberry                 Sambucus canadensis         3-10        Berries        15.0
Shrub   Gooseberry                 Ribes uva-crispa            3-8         Berries         9.0
Shrub   Hazelnut                   Corylus americana           4-9         Nuts           22.5
Shrub   Nanking Cherry             Prunus tomentosa            3-7         Fruit
Shrub   Raspberry                  Rubus idaeus                4-8         Berries
Shrub   Saskatoon                  Amelanchier alnifolia       2-7         Berries        5.7
Herb    Asparagus                  Asparagus officinalis       2-9         Shoots         0.4
Herb    Blackberry, Thornless      Rubus fruticosus            5-8         Berries
Herb    Rhubarb                    Rheum x cultorum            1-9         Stalk          3.5
Herb    Strawberry, Garden         Fragaria ananassa           4-9         Berries        1.0

Figure 17. Approximate Crop Yields and Harvest Times
Yields and harvest times may vary greatly based upon site conditions. Estimates are provided from several sources.19 20 21
                                                               Establishment and Management   18




6 ESTABLISHMENT AND
MANAGEMENT
Establishing an edible agroforestry system takes years or decades depending upon
weather, soil conditions, the size of the site, and the amount of pressure from undesired
weeds and animals. After the design was completed, a realistic establishment strategy
was created that is within the available time, resources, and budget.




Figure 18. Woodland Medicinal Starter Beds
Raised beds can help keep weeds from intermixing
with these newly planted medicinal herbs.
Photo by Katie Trozzo / CC AT ND
                                                                                                                                                                     Establishment and Management      19


Weed Management                                                                                      Animals
It is very important to create a weed management strategy before planting begins. The                A Utah Department of Agriculture and Food licensed honeybee apiary has been operatd on
selected strategy influenced the site layout, plant selection, mowing regime, use of animals,        the property since March 2021. Honeybees are artificially bred, domestic agricultural animals
and needed equipment. These designs demonstrate a “sandwich system” of grass pathways                classified as livestock by the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the US Food and
between wide strips of orchard crops with perennial ground covers.                                   Drug Administration (FDA). USDA-accredited certifying agents may certify beekeeping
                                                                                                     operations under the existing organic regulations for livestock ([7 CFR] Sections 205.236 –
Vigorous and persistent weeds exist on the site, so patiently taking multiple years to elimi-        205.240). The entire property is managed in accordance with organic livestock pasture
nate the weeds prior to planting will be necessary since it is more difficult to eliminate weeds     regulations but is not certified organic by the USDA. The USDA National Organic Standards
around existing plants. Landscape fabrics that biodegrade in a year are also a good option for       Board (NOSB) Livestock Committee 2010 Apiculture Recommended Standards will be
eliminating weeds.                                                                                   implemented on the site.
See “Ground Cover Weed Suppressors” on page 15 for information about designing                       Additionally, domestic animals may be used seasonally (May - October) to prepare the land
polycultures to manage weeds.                                                                        for permanent plantings, depending on the condition of the site and its vegetation. Drinking
                                                                                                     water source protection will be the top consideration when giving animals access to cropland.
Soil Development                                                                                     Where the land is lightly vegetated and prone to erosion, a movable poultry tractor may be
For all plants, the existing soil pH range, drainage, texture (sand, silt, clay), and organic        used to quickly remove the tops of weeds and lay down a light coat of manure. Pigs, goats or
matter were considered. Soil will not require remediation prior to planting because soil             cattle can initially prepare land crowded with weeds when the area is too rough for poultry.
conditions already match plant needs.                                                                Select areas far from sensitive soil or riperian zones can be partitioned with electric mesh or
                                                                                                     virtual fencing to contain animals that clear weed trees and brush before planting. For
Instant Succession                                                                                   example, goats can initially graze tall, thick weeds, followed by poultry which spread manure
Succession is the observed process of change in the species structure of an ecological com-          and interrupt parasite life cycles. A pig tractor can be used to remove deeply rooted woody
munity over time.22 A woodland normally takes a very long time to establish as it linearly goes      weeds. Pigs can also be rotated seasonally to clean up crop wastes or fallen fruit.24
from bare ground through successive stages of annual herbs, perennial forbs and grasses,
pioneer shrubs and trees, to hardwood trees. By thoughtfully establishing high-functioning           Animal tractor systems are very effective for ground cover maintenance and work well with
herbs, shrubs, and trees all at the same time, all layers of the woodland instantly begin grow-      orchard or tree crops. In an orchard animal tractor system, the animals are rotated through
ing. This strategy bypasses natural stages, greatly accelerating succession and yields while         the orchard, either in movable pens or in a series of fixed paddocks. The animals clean the
suppressing weeds.                                                                                   area between and under the trees of grasses, weeds, and weed seeds, scavenge wastes and
                                                                                                     windfall fruits, and eat insects and their larvae. At the same time, animals add manure to help
Limiting factors may greatly influence resource needs and succession speed for each site.            fertilize the crops. When the pen area has been cleared and fertilized by the animals, they are
For example, a low-nutrient sandy site may require immense amounts of compost or an                  moved on to the next section of orchard. With the appropriate combination of animals and
emphasis on temporary soil-development plants in early years. As nutrient levels increase,           crop trees, this system has been effective with chickens, guinea fowl, turkey, pheasant, quail,
the soil-developers can be replaced with permanent plants.                                           sheep, and pigs in alley orchards.
Islands that Merge                                                                                   On a healthy mixed diet from the orchard, animals tend to have less disease problems.
                                                                                                     Lighter animals such as chickens or other poultry can be rotated permanently through an
Small islands of plantings that slowly expand and eventually merge will be utilized to minimize
                                                                                                     orchard system. Geese can be employed to control grasses in orchards.25
resources and labor where weed competition is high. These islands keep weeds at bay using
wide, temporary barriers of landscape fabric and/or heavy mulch. The weed barrier will be            Young saplings are susceptible to animal damage while the orchard is being established.
expanded and plants propagated into the weed free area when weeds surrounding the                    Once perennial plantings, including ground covers, are established small breeds of chicken
islands are thoroughly suppressed by the barrier and ground covers within the islands are            can be introduced to the orchard. The chickens will eat insects and the fruit that falls to the
established.23                                                                                       ground, stopping pests from gathering, and fertilize the soil. This can be done at a ratio of
                                                                                                     about 10 chickens per acre. When the orchard is 3-7 years pigs can be introduced, after 7
Over Planting
                                                                                                     years, sheep. When the orchard is 15 years old cattle can be allowed to periodically graze in
Trees and shrubs will be overplanted and then thinned as they reach maturity to allow several        the orchard.26
varieties or species to be evaluated for the most resilient, highest yielding plants in a specific
area of the landscape. After several years, low-yielding plants will be removed and fragile          When animal grazing is not possible, brush-hogs, tractors, winches, chainsaws, and hand
plants may die. New plants may need to be planted if large gaps emerge where plants once             tools will be used instead for manually removing undesired plants.
stood.
                                                                                                     Pest Management
Maintaining sunlight in lower layers may require removing perfectly good plants if preferred         Crops will be periodically inspected to detect and manage pests. Fencing will be implemented
resilient species are planted too close. A staggered planting pattern will be used to help           around tree seedlings to protect from animal browsing. Non chemical corrective actions will be
minimize this situation.                                                                             used, if any, to minimize negative impacts on beneficial insects.
AGROFORESTRY DESIGNS AND CONCEPTUAL
SITE PLANS




Figure 19. Tour of Red Fern Farm
Red Fern Farm is family-owned nursery near
Wapello, Iowa that grows a variety of tree crops.
Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                              Alley Crop Orchard    21




7 ALLEY CROP ORCHARD
Alley cropping is broadly defined as the planting of two or more sets of single or multiple rows
of trees or shrubs at wide spacings, creating alleys within which agricultural, horticultural, or
forage crops are cultivated.27




Figure 20. Alley Crop Orchard
Walnut trees surround an alley of corn in this
agroforestry planting.
Courtesy of USDA National Agroforestry Center
                                                                                                                                                                                 Alley Crop Orchard    22


INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT
The contours of the site were identified and used as a design foundation for long strips of         The design considers required path width and turnaround space by light equipment for
plantings. The plantings will follow the contour of the land to maximize rainwater catchment        management and harvesting.
and reduce erosion without needing irriation. Sunlight availability, soil types, frost pockets,
and warm microclimates throughout the area were identified.                                         The travel routes of local wildlife are also considered where young plantings will need
                                                                                                    protection.
The direction of prevailing summer and winter winds are noted below.




                                                                                             WIND




                                                                                                                                                                   0            50            100 FT


Figure 21. Alley Crop Orchard Base Map
Contour lines help form the foundation for the
design.
                                                                                                                                                                           Alley Crop Orchard   23


CONCEPT DESIGN
Rows of woody perennials are placed at intervals of 60' - 100' on contour across the crop   Blocks of plants are organized strategically based on harvest times. These polycultures
field. The width of the alleys between the rows of trees or shrubs were determined by       also help reduce pest pressure.
considering slope length, field width, crop sunlight requirements, and equipment width. A
north-south orientation of tree rows will maximize snowpack conserved in the alley crop.




                                                                                                                          Wide Row of
                                                                                                                         Perennial Crops




                                                                                                                              Alley of
                                                                                                                           Grazing Crops




                                                                                                                         Narrow Row of
                                                                                                                         Perennial Crops




                                                                                                                                                         0            50             100 FT

Figure 22. Alley Crop Orchard Concept Design
A wide row and narrow row of perennial crops
surround a 60’ wide row of annual crops.
                                                                                                                                                 Alley Crop Orchard   24


Competition and Cooperation
Trees compete with companion crops for sunlight, moisture, and nutrients. Attention was
given to the root type and size of neighboring plants within the design to minimize
competition. For example, root systems associated with warm season forages are typically
deeper than cool season grasses. This makes them an excellent choice for controlling erosion
and protecting subsurface water from leached nutrients. These warm season grasses will be
less competitive in the early spring when many trees are beginning their annual growth.
However, warm season forages grow vigorously in the hot summer months which may put
them in competition with trees and other woody vegetation at a time of the year when water is
possibly the most limited resource. Seasonal compatibility was considered when selecting the
trees, shrubs, grasses, and crops for the alley cropping practice.

Perennial alley crops have positive influences on tree crops by suppressing weeds, providing
nutrients, and creating microclimates. For example, many legumes fix nitrogen that can
benefit nearby fruit trees while deterring weeds. Sunflowers can speed tree growth by
creating a greenhouse effect for trees.28 Chemical interactions can be controlled by choosing
plant combinations that work together.

Multiple Rows
Multiple rows of trees and shrubs provide the same benefits as a single row of perennials, but
allow structure and species diversity to be increased through vertical and horizontal
vegetative layering. Water and nutrient loss is also improved by using multiple rows.

To enhance the growth of trees and shrubs in multiple-row plantings, plants are staggered
between adjacent rows. This will permit maximum crown development by providing more
room to grow. In addition, competition for sunlight between plants can be reduced through
offset row configurations.29                                                                     Figure 23. Alley Crop Orchard.
Row Spacing                                                                                      Walnut trees surround an alley of soybeans.
Wider row spacing is preferred for stock grazing. Closer spacing will provide better erosion     Courtesy of USDA National Agroforestry Center
control. Eighty to 120 foot spacing will allow production for up to 20 years or more. As the
shade increases over the life of the trees, it may be necessary to change the companion crop
being grown in the alleyway. As the alleyways become more shaded, shade tolerant species
can be grown.30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Alley Crop Orchard     25


PLANT SELECTION
When selecting a tree species, the sunlight needs of the alley crop throughout its                                Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens) in preferred instead of red clover for areas where
growth cycle were considered. Small tree leaves and light shade is preferable to heavy                            livestock may forage.
shade.
                                                                                                                  Hickories (Carya spp.), walnuts (Juglans spp.), oaks (Quercus spp.), persimmons
A thorny hedge of roses, such as dog rose (Rosa canina) or rugosa rose (Rosa rugosa),                             (Diospyros spp.), and honeylocust (Gleditsia triacanthos) are recommended trees for North
can be planted around the perimeter of an orchard to contain and shelter.                                         American systems.31


Form    Common Name                Genus / Species          Hardiness   Height   Width    Light                    Water                Crops        Materials        Nitrogen   Nutrient               Ground     Nectary   Medicine
                                                            Zones                                                                                                     Fixer      Accumulator            Cover
Tree    Chestnut, Chinese          Castanea mollissima      4-8         40'      40'      Full Sun                                      Nuts
Tree    Locust, Honey, Thornless   Gleditsia triacanthos    3-8         50-75'   50-75'   Full Sun                 Xeric - Hydric       Seeds                                                                        G           x
Tree    Pawpaw                     Asimina triloba          4-8         20-30'   20-30'   Full Sun - Part Shade    Mesic                Fruit
Tree    Persimmon, American        Disospiros virginiana    5-9         15-75'   15-50'   Full Sun                 Xeric - Mesic        Fruit                                                                        G
Tree    Serviceberry, Downy        Amelanchier arborea      4-9         15-25'   15-25'   Full Sun - Part Shade    Mesic                Berries
Tree    Walnut, Black              Juglans nigra            4-7         50-70’   30-50’   Full Sun                 Xeric - Mesic        Nuts         Lumber                      K, P, Ca
Shrub   Aronia Berry, Black        Aronia melanocarpa       3-9         5-6’     5-6’     Full Sun - Part Shade    Mesic - Hydric       Berries
Shrub   Elderberry                 Sambucus canadensis      3-10        6-12'    6-12'    Full Sun - Part Shade    Xeric - Hydric       Berries                                                                      GS
Shrub   Goumi                      Elaeagnus multiflora     5-9         6-8'     6-8'     Full Sun - Part Shade    Xeric - Mesic        Berries                             x
Shrub   Hazelnut                   Corylus americana        4-9         12-20'   12-15'   Full Sun                 Mesic                Nuts
Shrub   Saskatoon                  Amelanchier alnifolia    2-7         5-15'    5-15'    Full Sun                 Mesic                Berries
Shrub   Sea Buckthorn              Hippophae rhamnoides     3-8         10-20'   10-20'   Full Sun - Part Shade    Xeric - Mesic        Fruit                               x
Herb    Clover, Dutch White        Trifolium repens         4-8         4-10"    6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade    Xeric - Mesic                                            x                             x
Herb    Clover, Miniclover         Trifolium repens         4-8         4"       6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade    Xeric - Mesic                                            x                             x
Herb    Comfrey                    Symphytum x uplandicum   4-9         3-5’     3-5’     Full Sun - Full Shade    Xeric - Mesic                                                 K, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg                        x

Figure 24. Alley Crop Orchard Plant List




                                                                                                                  Figure 25. Harvesting Pawpaws
                                                                                                                  Pawpaw trees (Asimina triloba) grown from seed
                                                                                                                  begin yielding fruit in 4-8 years depending on seed
                                                                                                                  quality, suitability of the location, the care the tree
                                                                                                                  receives, and the species.
                                                                                                                  Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                       Alley Crop Orchard   26


CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
This design depicts row crops of nuts and fruits with alleyways for annual crops. The top
row, which is upslope, is comprised of a black walnut (Juglans nigra) polyculture of
complementary plants. Plants were chosen that tolerate the juglone compound that is
produced by black walnuts in seed husks, leaves, and roots. The polyculture was placed
downslope to avoid complications with other rows containing crops that are sensitive to
juglone.

Nitrogen Fixers
Nitrogen fixing plants include rows of alternating sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides)
and goumi (Elaeagnus multiflora) with white
clover (Trifolium repens) in the ground cover.

Pollinators
Plants that support pollinators and benefi-
                                                                                                         Honey Locust
cial predatory insects include white clover,
goumi, aronia berry (Aronia melanocarpa),                                                                 Black Walnut

American elderberry (Sambucus canaden-                                                             American Persimmon

sis), saskatoon (Amelanchier alnifolia), and                                                                Elderberry

comfrey (Symphytum x uplandicum). The                                              Ground Cover               Hazelnut
                                                                                        Comfrey
saskatoon alternates with aronia berry for                                    Dutch White Clover
pest interruption.                                                       Slow-Growing Grass Mix


Harvest Strategy
Since walnuts, persimmons (Disospiros
                                                                                                                                                     Alley of
virginiana), and pawpaws (Asimina triloba)                                                                                                         Forage Crops
are har-vested by hand, the shrub
understory will not interfere with harvesting.
Trees are spaced to allow access to the
shrubs for harvesting.

Competition Considerations
Sun-loving saskatoon and sea buckthorn
shrubs were placed on southern rows while
shade-tolerant goumi, elderberry, and aronia
were placed north of trees. Wide spacing
between shrubs reduces competition while                                                                                         Honey Locust

easing harvesting and management.                                                                                           Black Aronia Berry

                                                                                                                                 Sea Buckthorn
Alleyway Crops
                                                                                                                                       Pawpaw
Crops chosen for the alleyways are deter-
                                                                Goumi                                                           Bigtooth Maple
mined by farm needs and the age of the
                                                             Saskatoon
perennial plantings. When trees are young,
sun-loving perennial forage grasses for                                                                                            Ground Cover
                                                                                                                                        Comfrey
animal fodder are planned. As the trees                                                                                       Dutch White Clover
mature, shade-tolerant perennials can be                                                                                 Slow-Growing Grass Mix

introduced into the alleys such as hazelnuts,
elderberries, and aronia berries.



                                                                                                                                                                  0   50         100 FT


Figure 26. Alley Crop Orchard Conceptual Site
Plan
                                                                                                                                                        Alley Crop Orchard   27


ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT
For tree rows, weeds must be minimized for the first 3-5 years in a band about 3 feet on each
side of the trees. Nothing will improve the growth of trees and shrubs like the control of com-
peting grasses.

Properly thinning trees within rows can maintain semi-open crowns. Maintained through regu-
lar thinning, these openings can help continue the vigorous growth of shade intolerant com-
panion crops. Pruning basal branches before they reach 1” in diameter improves future wood
quality and thins the depth of the canopy permitting more sunlight to reach understory crops.

If trees are shallow rooted, roots can be severed using a Ripper, Coulter, or Chisel Plow to de-
crease competition with annual crops. Begin when trees are young and annually or biennially
rip lateral roots to decrease their presence in the plow zone. Remaining roots will be active
deeper in the soil profile.32

As tree crops mature, less of the alley crop will thrive due to shading. Perennial alley crops
could be replaced with shade-tolerant perennials.

As a system matures, it begins to propagate itself and expand. Consider allowing volunteer
mulberries, raspberries, and grapes to thrive and provide yields provided they do not interfere
with the rest of the system.




                                                                                                   Figure 27. Tree Planting
                                                                                                   A tractor-pulled tree planter can greatly increase
                                                                                                   planting efficiency and speed for large areas.
                                                                                                   Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                               Edible Forest Edge   28




8 EDIBLE FOREST EDGE
Shady forests in the Mountain West often end abruptly when meeting steep, dry slopes.
Orchard crops, beneficial insects, and wildlife can thrive in this sunny and partially protected
environment while creating a beautiful and natural-looking transition of open woodland to
dense forest.

Bees are important pollinators for many agriculture crops, but cultivated plants rarely provide
their required nectar year round. Forest edges with large diversities of flowering plants can
help support pollinators. In addition, the increased number of birds in forest edges help man-
age agricultural pests.33




Figure 28. Extending a Forest Edge
The edge of this forest is extended with newly
planted fruit trees on the contour of the landscape.
Photo by Paul Trieu
                                                                                                                                Edible Forest Edge   29


INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT
The forest edge design assessed existing tree canopy, sun exposure, soil type, and the slope
of the land. Sun exposure is a major factor in determining species location in the forest edge
habitat. The more deeply shaded forest areas share organic matter, shade, protective cover,
and a fungal-driven soil. The sunnier grassland areas share sun, wind, openness, and
bacterial-driven soil.34

Existing native species are desired for propagation.

The slope of the land does not require supplemental irrigation needs.




                                                                                                 Full shade



                                                                            Closed               Part shade
                                                                            Forest
                                                                            Canopy
                                                                                                 Part sun




                                                                                                 Full sun




                                                                                                              Open
                                                                                                              Forest
                                                                                                              Garden




                                                                                                                       0   50            100 FT



Figure 29. Edible Forest Edge Base Map
Contour lines help form the foundation for the
design.
                                                                                                                                               Edible Forest Edge   30


CONCEPT DESIGN
Carefully planning of paths to crops for ease of maintenance and harvesting was considered .
using keyhole, sinuous, suntrap, crenellated, and gently curved designs.35

Livestock were also considered in placing and designing the forest edge planting. Enriching
of the fodder base is incorporated with fruits, leaves, and branches by including forest edge
planting near grazing areas.36




                                                                          Closed
                                                                          Forest
                                                                          Canopy




                                                                                                                   Pathway

                                                           Shade-Tolerant
                                                           Plantings


                                                                                               Bramble Strip



                                                                                                       Sunny
                                                                                                       Plantings

                                                                                                                             Open
                                                                                                                             Forest
                                                                                                                             Garden




                                                                                                                                      0   50            100 FT



Figure 30. Edible Forest Edge Concept Design
Pathways extend through the forest edge to ease
maintenance and harvesting.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Edible Forest Edge     31


PLANT SELECTION
Edible forest edge designs favor canes, shrubs, and small to mid-sized trees.37

Herbs also appreciate the fungal dominated soils of the forest edge. Marketable herbs such
as thyme, lavender, and marjoram can be grown beneath the light shade of trees.38

Form    Common Name                 Genus / Species          Hardiness   Height   Width    Light                        Water            Crops          Materials   Nitrogen   Nutrient               Ground     Nectary   Medicine
                                                             Zones                                                                                                  Fixer      Accumulator            Cover
Tree    Crabapple, Siberian         Malus baccata            3           30'      25'      Full Sun                     Mesic            Fruit                                 K
Tree    Dogwood, Cornelian Cherry   Cornus mas               4-8         20'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade        Mesic            Berries
Tree    Pawpaw                      Asimina triloba          4-8         20-30'   20-30'   Full Sun - Part Shade        Mesic            Fruit
Tree    Pear, Asian                 Pyrus pyrifolia          4-9         25-30'   25'      Full Sun                     Mesic            Fruit                                                                     G
Tree    Persimmon, American         Disospiros virginiana    5-9         15-75'   15-50'   Full Sun                     Xeric - Mesic    Fruit                                                                     G
Shrub   Elderberry                  Sambucus canadensis      3-10        6-12'    6-12'    Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Hydric   Berries                                                                   GS
Shrub   Gooseberry                  Ribes uva-crispa         3-8         3-5'     3-5'     Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Mesic    Berries
Shrub   Hazelnut                    Corylus americana        4-9         12-20'   12-15'   Full Sun                     Mesic            Nuts
Shrub   Jostaberry                  Ribes x culverwellii     4-7         4-8'     4-8'     Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Mesic    Berries                                                                   x
Shrub   Raspberry                   Rubus idaeus             4-8         4-6'     Indef.   Full Sun                     Mesic            Berries
Herb    Blackberry, Thornless       Rubus fruticosus         5-8         4-5'     3-4'     Full Sun                     Mesic            Berries
Herb    Clover, Dutch White         Trifolium repens         4-8         4-10"    6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Mesic                                   x                               x
Herb    Clover, Miniclover          Trifolium repens         4-8         4"       6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Mesic                                   x                               x
Herb    Comfrey                     Symphytum x uplandicum   4-9         3-5’     3-5’     Full Sun - Full Shade        Xeric - Mesic                                          K, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg                        x
Herb    Daffodil                    Narcissus                4-8         3-5’     1-3’     Full Sun - Part Shade        Mesic                                                                                      x
Herb    Jerusalem Artichoke         Helianthus tuberosus     2-10        6-12'    Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade        Mesic            Tubers
Herb    Squash, Winter              Cucurbita moschata       2-11        18"      Indef.   Full Sun                     Mesic            Vegetable
Herb    Strawberry, Wild            Fragaria virginiana      3-8         4-12"    Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric - Mesic    Berries                               Fe                       x
Herb    Yarrow, Dwarf Wolly         Achillea tomentosa       4-9         6-18"    Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade        Xeric            Leaves (Tea)                          K, P, Cu                 x          GS

Figure 31. Edible Forest Edge Plant List




                                                                                                                   Figure 32. Gooseberries
                                                                                                                   Many varieties of gooseberries produce high yields
                                                                                                                   of sweet berries.
                                                                                                                   Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                            Edible Forest Edge   32


CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
This design depicts pawpaws (Asimina triloba) and persimmons (Disospiros virginiana) at the       Harvest Strategy
existing tree line with an understory planting organized by harvest times.                        Persimmons are harvested late in October into November. Pawpaws are harvested by hand in
                                                                                                  mid-September after elderberries (Sambucus canadensis) are harvested in late August.
Design Strategy
In the southernmost row, berries tolerant of part-shade are planted on the north side of fruit
trees. Daffodils (Narcissus) and chives (Allium spp.) planted around the trees confuse pests
and provide a crop. Bulbs planted at the drip line of trees also help keep spreading grasses
from competing with tree roots. Dutch white clover (Trifolium repens) and wild strawberries
(Fragaria virginiana) complete the ground cover polyculture. The hedge of raspberries (Rubus
idaeus) is surrounded by mowed pathways to contain their spread.

ESTABLISHMENT AND
MANAGEMENT IDEAS
Brush-hogs, tractors, winches, chainsaws,
and other hand tools will be needed to                                                                          Ground Cover
initially clear trees and brush before planting
the forest edge.
                                                                            Closed                     American Persimmon
Animals contained within movable electric
mesh fencing may also be incorporated to                                    Forest                     Pawpaw
help prepare the forest edge. Goats can                                     Canopy
clear vegetation ahead of chickens, relying                                               Hazelnut
on the poultry to spread the manure and
disrupt parasite cycles. The rooting behavior
of pigs can remove deeply rooted woody
weeds. Movable pig tractors can prepare a                                                                                  Pathway
new area or can be rotated seasonally to
                                                                                                                                                                    Asian Pear
clean up crop wastes or fallen fruit.
                                                                                                                                                                Black Currant
Elderberries grown for market are cut to the
ground after the ground freezes to prevent
mites from overwintering in the buds.39                                    Thornless Blackberry
                                                                           Elderberry                                                      Siberian Crabapple
                                                                           Raspberry
                                                                                                                                     Jostaberry

                                                                                                                              Cornelian Cherry Dogwood
                                                                                                                      Gooseberry

                                                                                                              Ground Cover              Open
                                                                                                                                        Forest
                                                                                           Comfrey                                      Garden




                                                                                                                                                  0                 50               100 FT




Figure 33. Edible Forest Edge Conceptual Site Plan
                                                                             Shady Edible Forest   33




9 SHADY EDIBLE FOREST
Forest farming is the cultivation of high-value specialty crops under the protection of a forest
canopy that has been modified to provide the correct shade level.40

Most shade-loving plants benefit from consistently moist soil and some direct or dappled
sunlight. Thinning the upper canopy, removing underbrush, and removing entire trees may be
required to provide the correct environment for forest crops to thrive.




Figure 34. Medicinal Herbs
Cultivated medicinal herbs can contribute to the
health of a forest.
Photo by Forest Farming / CC BY ND
                                                                                                                                                             Shady Edible Forest   34


INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT
This site was selected for ideal sunlight and soil moisture. Sunlight levels were carefully
observed throughout the day: Most forest plants thrive only in part shade to full shade
environments. These areas provide soil that is consistently moist, but well-drained.

Direct Sunlight Levels
Full Sun:    6 or more hours
Part Sun:    2-6 hours
Part Shade: 2-4 hours
Full Shade: Less than 2 hours

Vegetation Layers
Shrubs, ground covers, vines, or herbs can
provide an opportunity for opportunistic
weeds to gain a foothold. Saplings of
desired canopy trees will be hand planted—
these important young trees are the next
generation in the stand awaiting a
                                                                               Full sun
disturbance to fill in canopy gaps.
Mushrooms
Logs and woodchips inoculated with
mushroom spawn are a popular medium
because fungi requires almost no sunlight. A                                   Part sun
flat, protected area where logs could be                                                                                                        Open
stacked or leaned between trees has been                                                                                                        Forest
identified for mushroom production.                                                                                                             Garden
                                                                               Part shade
When mushrooms are fruiting, daily misting
and harvesting may be necessary to ensure
freshness and prevent damage from insects.
For this reason, growing mushrooms may
only be practical when water rights are
acquired and access allows the site to be                                      Full shade
                                                                                                                             Closed
visited frequently.                                                                                                          Forest
                                                                                                                             Canopy
                                                              Relatively flat area that may be a
                                                              good location for stacked mushroom logs

                                                                                                        Northeast-facing, gentle slope with
                                                                                                        consistently moist, well-drained soil




                                                                                                                                                         0       20     30 FT
Figure 35. Shady Edible Forest Base Map
Contour lines help form the foundation for the
design.
                                                                                                                                                      Shady Edible Forest   35


CONCEPT DESIGN
Sunlight is the greatest limiting factor in a forest design: too much or too little sun and
plants will wither. Sunlight levels were used to identify planting areas then group plants
based upon desired harvesting periods and growing conditions. For example, tall plants are
used to fully shade mushroom logs and protect them from drying winds.




                                                                                    Plant Group A
                                                                                    Shrubs and tall herbs.



                                                                                                             Plant Group B
                                                                                                             Beds of high-value
                                                                                                             medicinal herbs.




                                                                                                                                  Forest Edge Strip
                                                                                                                                  Good location for plants that
                                                                                                                                  desire part shade.
                                                             Plant Group C
                                                             Stacked mushroom logs
                                                             surrounded by low-growing
                                                             medicinal and edible forest herbs.


                                                                                                                                  Forest Interior Strip
                                                                                                                                  Good location for plants that
                                                                                                                                  desire full shade.




                                                                                                                                            0                20   30 FT

Figure 36. Shady Edible Forest Concept Design
Three plant groups are defined, each performing
different functions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shady Edible Forest     36


PLANT SELECTION
Plants were selected and organized based upon their desired sunlight needs and moisture
require-ments. Trees and stall shrubs help modify sunlight conditions and block wind.

Form    Common Name              Genus / Species              Hardiness   Height   Width    Light                           Water            Crops           Materials   Nitrogen   Nutrient               Ground      Nectary   Medicine
Tree    Pawpaw                   Asimina triloba              4-8         20-30'   20-30'   Full Sun - Part Shade           Mesic            Fruit
Tree    Walnut, Black            Juglans nigra                4-7         50-70’   30-50’   Full Sun                        Xeric - Mesic    Nuts            Lumber                 K, P, Ca
Shrub   Elderberry               Sambucus canadensis          3-10        6-12'    6-12'    Full Sun - Part Shade           Xeric - Hydric   Berries                                                                     GS
Shrub   Gooseberry               Ribes uva-crispa             3-8         3-5'     3-5'     Full Sun - Part Shade           Xeric - Mesic    Berries
Shrub   Oregon Grape Holly       Mahonia aquifolium           5           3-6'     3-6'     Full Sun - Full Shade           Xeric - Hydric   Berries                                                                     G
Herb    Bloodroot                Sanguinaria canadensis       3-8         6"       Indef.   Part Shade                      Mesic                                                                            x           G
Herb    Cohosh, Black            Actaea racemosa              3-8         4-6'     2-4'     Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic            Root                                                                                x
Herb    Cohosh, Blue             Caulophyllum thalictroides   3-8         1-2'     6-12"    Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic            Root                                                                                x
Herb    Comfrey                  Symphytum x uplandicum       4-9         3-5’     3-5’     Full Sun - Full Shade           Xeric - Mesic                                           K, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg                         x
Herb    Fern, Ostrich            Matteuccia struthiopteris    2-8         2-6'     Indef.   Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic - Hydric   Shoots
Herb    Ginseng                  Panax quinquefolius          4-7         18"      18"      Full Shade                      Mesic            Root                                                                                x
Herb    Goldenseal               Hydrastis canadensis         3-8         1'       1'       Part Shade                      Mesic            Root                                                                                x
Herb    Mayapple                 Podophyllum peltatum         3-8         12-18"   Indef.   Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic            Fruit                                                           x
Herb    Ramps                    Allium tricoccum             4-8         6-10"    Indef.   Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic            Shoots, Root                                                                G
Herb    Solomon's Seal           Polygonatum biflorum         3-7         2-4'     2'       Part Shade - Full Shade         Xeric - Mesic    Shoots
Herb    Trillium                 Trillium grandiflorum        4-8         12-18"   Indef.   Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic                                                                                        G       x
Herb    Wild Ginger              Asarum canadense             3-8         4-8"     Indef.   Part Shade - Full Shade         Mesic            Root                                                            x
Fungi   Mushroom, Garden Giant   Stropharia rugoso annulata               6-18"    1-2'     Full Shade                      Hydric           Fruiting body
Fungi   Mushroom, Oyster         Pleurotus ostreatus                      6"       4-10"    Full Shade                      Hydric           Fruiting body
Fungi   Mushroom, Shiitake       Lentinula edodes                         6"       4-10"    Full Shade                      Hydric           Fruiting body

Figure 37. Shady Edible Forest Plant List




                                                                                                                      Figure 38. Stacked Mushroom Logs
                                                                                                                      The “log cabin” stacking style is a common method
                                                                                                                      of managing logs inoculated with mushrooms.
                                                                                                                      Photo by Catherine Bukowski / CC BY ND
                                                                                                                                                                             Shady Edible Forest    37


CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
This design depicts two rows of plantings: Plants in the row at the forest edge desire part        vigilance and daily harvests may be necessary to ensure freshness and prevent insect and
shade while plants further inside the forest desire full shade. Pawpaws (Asimina triloba) pro-     rodent damage.
vide fruit while shading beds of goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis). Medicinal herb beds are
aligned slightly off-contour to capture rain water, but stay well-drained.                         An edible forest ground cover grows through stacked logs that are inoculated with mush-
                                                                                                   rooms. The plants help logs retain moisture and are short enough to not interfere with the
A large amount of woodchip mulch inoculated with mushrooms will provide a harvest while            mushroom harvest.
suppressing weeds, retaining moisture, and enriching soil. Once fruiting begins, constant




ESTABLISHMENT AND
MANAGEMENT IDEAS
Several popular understory medicinal
plants—ginseng (Panax quinquefolius), gold-
enseal (Hydrastis canadensis), black cohosh
(Actaea racemosa), bloodroot (Sanguinaria
canadensis)—require 3-6 years of growth                             Pathway
before they are usable or marketable. Inter-
planting these areas with fast-yielding mush-
rooms, gooseberries (Ribes uva-crispa), and
elderberries (Sambucus canadensis) will
provide crops and build soil while the roots of
these plants mature.

Oftentimes, thinning the canopy improves the                                                                      Gooseberry
                                                                                                                  Elderberry
health of the forest by allowing dappled sun-
                                                                                                                  Oregon Grape Holly
light to reach the forest floor. The resulting
                                                                                                                  Comfrey
woody debris will be used to outline beds,
cultivate mushrooms, and create woodchips
for use around plants and for pathways. For                                                                                                                                   Pawpaw
more information about canopy thinning, see                                         Black Cohosh Beds
the Iowa State University Extension publica-                                              4' x 12'
tion Woodland Improvement and Crop Trees
in Iowa.41
                                                                                                                                        Goldenseal Beds
Once mushroom fruiting begins, constant                                                                                                     4' x 30'
vigilance and daily harvests may be neces-
sary to ensure freshness and prevent insect                                                                                                                         Mulched Pathways
and rodent damage. Logs can be moved to                                                                                                                                  1-3' wide
a location that is frequently visited with ideal                                                                                                               Innoculated with mushrooms
                                                      Edible Forest Ground Cover
conditions, such a protected and shady area            Bloodroot
near access trails. Woodchip pathways                  Mayapple
inoculated with mushrooms will likely need to                                                                                             Ginseng Beds
                                                       Ostrich Fern         Stacked Logs of
be remulched every year to remain                                                                                                            4' x 30'
                                                       Ramps                Shiitake Mushrooms
productive. Visit the Cornell University Forest        Solomon's Seal       On Contour
Mushroom Cultivation website42 for research            Trillium
and best-practices for mushroom cultivation.           Wild Ginger


                                                                                                                                                                    0              20       30 FT




Figure 39. Shady Edible Forest Conceptual Site
Plan
                                                                        Edible Riparian Buffer   38




10 EDIBLE RIPARIAN
BUFFER
Riparian forest buffers are ecosystems made up of tree, shrub, and grass plantings adjacent
to watercourses and within floodplains. They buffer watercourses from pollution, stabilize
stream banks against erosion, protect sensitive aquatic environments, enhance wildlife habi-
tat, trap sediments, recharge groundwater, reduce flooding, and increase biodiversity.43

Few food crops tolerate the wet conditions along watercourses and in floodplains, but many
ornamental and biomass plants thrive in this lowland environment.




Figure 40. Bear Creek
Multiple rows of trees and shrubs, as well as a
native grass strip, combine in a riparian buffer to
protect Bear Creek in Story County, Iowa. Few
(if any) plants are edible at Bear Creek, but it
still serves as an excellent example of a properly
designed buffer.
Photo by Lynn Betts, USDA NRCS
                                                                                                              Edible Riparian Buffer   39


INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT
The conditions of watercourses and flood-
plains are heavily influenced by weather and
climate fluctuations. Rigorous observation
over many years will continue to be required
to thoroughly understand an area.
General flow patterns for the entire
watershed have been observed to
understand sources of water flowing through                                                            Log drop structures on
                                                                                                       contour are planned for
the landscape. Identifying sources of
                                                                                                       steep slopes to mitigate soil
pollution that may need to be mitigated is a                                                           erosion into the stream.
                                                                                      Stream
top priority.
The landscapes and stream has evolved to         Significant erosion
rapidly move water off property. This often      caused by surface flow. A
causes further erosion and degrades the          wide area of dense
health of watercourses.                          grasses is needed.

Contours and detailed water flow patterns
for the area have been mapped.

Surface runoff, and stream flow during light
showers, heavy rains, and spring-time snow
melt were observed to identify areas of
erosion, scouring, deep sediment, flooding,
stream blockages, and bank undercutting.
Areas where soil is frequently scoured by
fast-moving water and/or covered by
sediment will be mitigated by soil and water
erosion projects. The USDA Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
funded EQIP 2018 748D43220U0 and CSP
2018 818D43220XG contracts in September
2022 to implement and/or maintain specific                   Introducing Beaver Dam Analogs
conservation practices, as set forth in the                  (BDA"s) and channel bed
Conservation Plan Schedule of Operations                     stabilization structures will help slow
attached in the appendix on the full 40-acre                 water.
property (USDA Farm ID 1179, Tract ID
10780) through December 31, 2028.
Holes were dug in several areas to carefully
document water table depths throughout the
seasons. Areas of steep slopes are very dry
during summer months which have informed
plant selections.




Figure 41. Edible Riparian Buffer Base Map
Contour lines help form the foundation for the                                                  0      50                   100 FT
design.
                                                                                                                                                                           Edible Riparian Buffer   40


CONCEPT DESIGN
Three zones are typically defined in a riparian buffer, each with a specific width, function
and design.44 A total buffer width of 50 to 100 feet is recommended for the topographical
features and goals. Width guidelines are provided here from the USDA Conservation Buffers
publication based on detailed specifications for determining buffer widths.45

Riparian Buffer Zone Functions

 Functions                               Plant Characteristics        Management and Crops                                                             Plant Group A

 Zone 1: Bank Stabilization - 20’ strip along stream bank edge
 •   Bank stabilization                  •   Fast-growing             •   Relatively unmanaged
 •   Shade to moderate water             •   Full sun to full shade   •   Biomass and woodworking
     temperature                         •   Water loving                 crops                            Zone 3        Zone 2           Zone 1
 •   Enhance aquatic habitat with        •   Resprout when cut                                          Flow Control   Infiltration   Bank Stabilization
     organic matter                      •   Along the bank, her-
 •   Reduce velocity of flood                baceous rushes and
     waters                                  sedges have flexible
                                                                                                                                                                Plant Group B
                                             stems and creeping
                                             roots48
                                         •   Trees and shrubs have
                                             deep and wide roots
 Zone 2: Infiltration - 30’ strip next to Zone 1
 •   Maximize infiltration               •   Mixed growth rates       •   Actively managed
 •   Uptake, storage, and                •   Full sun to part shade   •   Avoid soil compaction
     breakdown of nutrients and          •   Water loving or flood    •   Cut flowers, fruits, nuts,
     pollution                               tolerant                     herbs
 •   Reduce velocity of flood
     waters
 •   Trap flood debris to keep it
     out of nearby crops
                                                                                                                                                                          Plant Group C
 Zone 3: Flow Control - 20’ strip next to Zone 2
 •   Slow surface runoff                 •   Fast-growing             •   Actively managed for vigor-
 •   Trap sediment and debris            •   Full sun                     ous growth by removing
     from surface runoff                 •   Warm season grasses          biomass through mowing
 •   Uptake of nutrients and pol-            and forbs                    or grazing                                                  Pathway       Pathway
     lution                              •   Tolerate wet soil        •   Avoid soil compaction
                                                                      •   Cut flowers, forage

A buffer strip of undulating widths along the length of the stream will be required, with wider
areas mitigating concentrated surface runoff due to high slopes.46                                                                                                                Plant Group D

Zones have been widened beyond recommended minimums to mitigate higher flow rates in
specific areas. Pathways and zones were identified to ensure convenient harvesting of
crop plants located where their edible parts will not be submerged.




                                                                                                                                                           0             50               100 FT




Figure 42. Edible Riparian Buffer Concept Design
Four plant groups and three riparian zones create a
matrix of plant blocks with different harvesting times.
                                                                                                                                                                                        Edible Riparian Buffer     41


PLANT SELECTION
Buffers on both sides of the stream are composed of diverse woody and herbaceous plants
that have stiff stems, are tolerant of wet soils and high nutrient levels, and have high root
biomass to maximize effectiveness.47 48 Plants were identified for the desired zones and then
grouped based upon harvesting strategies.

Tips
• To maximize sunlight in zone 2, select medium-sized or short trees and shrubs for planting
   next to watercourses. Large bottomland trees such as bigtooth maple, cottonwood, and box
   elder are typically recommended for streamside riparian plantings. Once established, de-
   bris from these fast-growing trees can contribute to aquatic habitat, but without significant
   and frequent pruning, their deep shade will greatly reduce food and ornamental crop yields.
• Some willow species may rapidly expand from zone 1 into crops located in zone 2. Care-
   fully research willows and their growth habits. A wide, mowed pathway between zone 1 and
   2 may help contain expansive willow growth.
• Seed mixes can be purchased that accommodate specific soil and sunlight conditions in
   each zone. Additional seed for desired cut flower species can augment mixes.
• Avoid nitrogen-fixing plants, such as clovers and legumes, which could contribute to water
   nitrification.
• Watercourses can quickly distribute plants and seeds. Use native plants and avoid plants
   with highly dispersive or expansive characteristics.
• If soil is dry during summer months or droughts, ensure plants can tolerate these condi-
   tions; do not simply select water-loving plants.
• Avoid cool-season grasses (brome and fescue): their flexible stems will not trap sediment.
• To decrease the amount of bare soil exposed between plants, consider overseeding a rhi-
   zomatous native perennial herb in zone 2 and 3, such as slender mountain mint (Pycnan-
   themum tenuifolium).
• Always include 3 or more grasses in zone 3 to utilize their soil-stabilizing, fibrous roots and    Figure 43. Native Prairie
   to increase diversity. Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is an exception: it is an excellent         Native prairie plants in zone 3 of a riparian buffer can help slow surface runoff and trap sediment.
   choice for highly erodible soil, but mixing it with other grasses is not recommended as it will   Emphasize plants with deep, fibrous root systems. Selecting beautiful flowers that can be used for cuttings
   eventually out compete them.                                                                      may provide additional income.
• Kernza wheatgrass (Thinopyrum intermedium) is an edible, perennial grain under develop-            Photo by Fred Meyer
   ment at The Land Institute.49 By 2022, the wheat may be suitable for planting in zone 3 in
   areas without pollution.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Edible Riparian Buffer     42

Riparian Zone           Form    Common Name                 Genus / Species                Hardiness   Height   Width    Light                   Water            Crops          Materials       Nitrogen   Nutrient      Ground      Nectary   Medicine
                                                                                           Zones                                                                                                 Fixer      Accumulator   Cover
Stream Bank             Herb    Baltic rush                 Juncus balticus                3-7         1-3’     Indef.   Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Bottlebrush sedge           Carex comosa                   3-9         1-2’     6"       Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Dark green bulrush          Scirpus atrovirens             3-9         3-5’     3-4'     Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Fringed sedge               Carex crinita                  3-8         2-5’     Indef.   Full Sun - Full Shade   Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Hop sedge                   Carex lupulina                 3-8         1-4’     1-2'     Full Sun - Part Shade   Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Lurid sedge                 Carex lurida                   3-8         1-3’     1-2'     Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Prairie cordgrass           Spartina pectinata             4-9         3-8’     Indef.   Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Wild Rye, Riverbank         Elymus riparius                3-8         3-4’     1-2'     Part Shade              Hydric
Stream Bank             Herb    Wool grass                  Scirpus cyperinus              4-8         3-5’     Indef.   Full Sun                Hydric
Stream Bank, Zone 1-2   Herb    Wild Rye, Virginia          Elymus virginicus              3-8         2-4’     2'       Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Hydric
Zone 1                  Shrub   Dogwood, Red-Osier          Cornus sericea                 3-8         9'       9'       Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Woody Florals
Zone 1                  Shrub   Dogwood, Yellow Twig        Cornus sericea                 3-8         6'       6'       Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Woody Florals
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Basket              Salix viminalis                4-8         8-10'    4-6'     Full Sun - Full Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Woody Florals
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Bebb                Salix bebbiana                 3-7         25'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Biomass
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Black               Salix nigra                    4-9         50'               Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Biomass
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Corkscrew           Salix matsudana                5-8         25'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Woody Florals
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Pussy               Salix discolor                 4-8         15'      12'      Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Woody Florals
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Sandbar             Salix interior                 2-8         30'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Biomass
Zone 1                  Shrub   Willow, Shining             Salix lucida                   5-9         25'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric                  Biomass
Zone 1-2                Herb    Aster, New England          Aster novae-angliae            4-8         5'       3'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Culver's Root               Veronicastrum virginicum       3-8         4-7'     2-4'     Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Golden Alexanders           Zizia aurea                    3-8         3'       2'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Goldenrod, Grass-Leaved     Solidago graminifolia          3-8         2'       2'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Goldenrod, Riddell's        Solidago riddellii             3-7         3'       2'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Goldenrod, Zig Zag          Solidago flexicaulis           3-8         1-3'     1-3'     Full Sun - Full Shade   Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Hyssop, Purple Giant        Agastache scrophulariaefolia   4-6         6'       3'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Ironweed                    Vernonia fasciculata           4-9         6'       4'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Prairie Blazing Star        Liatris pycnostachya           3-9         4'       3'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 1-2                Herb    Slender Mountain Mint       Pycnanthemum tenuifolium       4-8         2'       Indef.   Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric                                                                         G
Zone 1-2                Herb    Vervain, Blue               Verbena hastata                3-8         2-5'     2'       Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Hydric                                                                         G
Zone 1-2                Herb    Wild Rye, Canada            Elymus canadensis              3-8         5'       2'       Full Sun                Xeric - Hydric
Zone 2                  Herb    Blackberry, Thornless       Rubus fruticosus               5-8         4-5'     3-4'     Full Sun                Mesic            Berries
Zone 2                  Herb    St. John's Wort             Hypericum perforatum           3-8         1-3'     Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Xeric                                                              x           G       x
Zone 2                  Shrub   Aronia Berry, Black         Aronia melanocarpa             3-9         5-6’     5-6’     Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic - Hydric   Berries
Zone 2                  Shrub   Elderberry                  Sambucus canadensis            3-10        6-12'    6-12'    Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Hydric   Berries                                                               GS
Zone 2                  Shrub   Gooseberry                  Ribes uva-crispa               3-8         3-5'     3-5'     Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Mesic    Berries
Zone 2                  Shrub   Hazelnut                    Corylus americana              4-9         12-20'   12-15'   Full Sun                Mesic            Nuts
Zone 2                  Shrub   Saskatoon                   Amelanchier alnifolia          2-7         5-15'    5-15'    Full Sun                Mesic            Berries
Zone 2                  Tree    Serviceberry, Downy         Amelanchier arborea            4-9         15-25'   15-25'   Full Sun - Part Shade   Mesic            Berries
Zone 2                  Tree    Walnut, Black               Juglans nigra                  4-7         50-70’   30-50’   Full Sun                Xeric - Mesic    Nuts           Lumber                     K, P, Ca
Zone 3                  Herb    Bee Balm                    Monarda fistulosa              3-10        3-4’     2-6’     Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Mesic    Leaves (Tea)                                                          G
Zone 3                  Herb    Big Bluestem                Andropogon gerardii            4-9         7'       4'       Full Sun                Xeric - Hydric
Zone 3                  Herb    Black-Eyed Susan            Rudbeckia hirta                3-7         2'       2'       Full Sun                Xeric - Hydric
Zone 3                  Herb    Blanket Flower              Gaillardia aristata            3-10        8-12"    1'       Full Sun                Mesic
Zone 3                  Herb    Boneset                     Eupatorium perfoliatum         3-8         4-6'     3-4'     Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric                                                                                 x
Zone 3                  Herb    Hyssop, Anise               Agastache foeniculum           4-9         2-4'     1-2'     Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Mesic
Zone 3                  Herb    Indian Grass                Sorghastrum nutans             4-9         6'       3'       Full Sun                Xeric - Mesic
Zone 3                  Herb    Joe Pye Weed                Eupatorium maculatum           4-9         5'       3'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 3                  Herb    Joe Pyeweed, Sweet          Eupatorium purpureum           4-9         4-7'     3'       Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 3                  Herb    Little Bluestem             Schizachyrium scoparium        3-9         3'       3'       Full Sun                Xeric - Mesic
Zone 3                  Herb    Prairie Wild Rose           Rosa arkansana                 4-8         2'       Indef.   Full Sun                Xeric - Hydric   Hips                                                                          x
Zone 3                  Herb    Purple Coneflower           Echinacea purpurea             3-8         3-4'     1-2'     Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric - Mesic                                                                          G       x
Zone 3                  Herb    Side-Oats Grama             Bouteloua curtipendula         4-9         2'       1-2'     Full Sun                Xeric - Mesic                                                                          S
Zone 3                  Herb    Switchgrass                 Panicum virgatum               5-9         4'       3-4'     Full Sun                Mesic - Hydric
Zone 3                  Herb    Yarrow                      Achillea millefolium           3-9         2-3'     Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade   Xeric            Leaves (Tea)                              K, P, Cu        x           GS
Zone 3                  Tree    Plum, European Semi-Dwarf   Prunus domestica               4-8         12-15'   10-15'   Full Sun                Mesic            Fruit                                                                 G

Figure 44. Edible Riparian Buffer Plant List
Plants are grouped by riparian zone and form.
                                                                                                                                                                                     Edible Riparian Buffer   43


CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
This design accommodates the fast-moving
stream and areas with high surface runoff.
These conditions require an open, woodland                          Plant Group A                                                             Plant Groups A & C
canopy so sunlight can stimulate low-growing                            for Zone 2                                                            for Zone 1
herbaceous plants that will stabilize soil.                                                                                                   Corkscrew Willow
                                                                       Elderberry
The open canopy can be created by thinly                     Thornless Blackberry                                                             Yellow Twig Dogwood
planting trees and shrubs or through frequent                                                                                                    Shining Willow
                                                                       Black Walnut
cutting of dense plantings. If the area had
slower moving water, such as floodplain, the                                    Zone 3                    Zone 2                Zone 1
canopy could have 100% cover.                                                Flow Control               Infiltration        Bank Stabilization
Elderberries (Sambucus canadensis) are                                                                                               Stream
interplanted with walnuts due to their ability
to thrive in part shade and tolerate juglone.                                                                                                              Plant Groups B & D
                                                                                                                                                           for Zone 1
In zone 1, next to the stream, willows and                                                                                                                 Pussy Willow
dogwoods with beautiful branches are                                                                                                                       Red-Osier Dogwood
planted near the pathway to ease harvesting                                                                                                                Sandbar Willow
access. Less ornamental species that will not
be harvested are planted near the stream.                                           Plant Group B
The pathway will help contain the expansive                                             for Zone 2
growth of willows.                                                                        Hazelnut
                                                                                                                                                                   Stream Bank Ground Cover
                                                                              Thornless Blackberry
In zone 2, plant groups A and B are shown                                                                                                                          for Zone 1
with and without blackberries to demonstrate                                                                                                                       Sedges, Rushes
two different planting patterns.                                       Zone 3
                                                                                                                                                                   Ground Cover
                                                  Native Wildflower Prairie Mix                                                                                    for Zones 1 & 2
                                                 (Selected plants with deep, fibrous roots)
                                                                                                                                                                   Cut Flowers
ESTABLISHMENT AND
MANAGEMENT IDEAS                                                                               Plant Group C
                                                                                                  for Zone 2
For streambank bioengineering and exten-                                                          Gooseberry
sive planting details, see Developing Water
                                                                                                   Saskatoon
Trails in Iowa, Chapter 4: Land and Stream
Management by the Iowa Department of                                                                                       Pathway        Pathway
Natural Resources.50


                                                                                                         Plant Group D
                                                                                                             for Zone 2
                                                                                              Semi-Dwarf European Plum
                                                                                                      Black Aronia Berry




                                                                                                                                                   0                 50                100 FT

Figure 45. Edible Riparian Buffer Conceptual
Site Plan
                                                                               Edible Windbreak     44




11 EDIBLE WINDBREAK
Windbreaks are planned and managed as part of a crop and/or livestock operation to enhance
production, shelter livestock, protect buildings, provide wildlife habitat, and control soil ero-
sion.51 A thoughtfully designed windbreak that incorporates crop-bearing plants can provide a
primary or secondary income while increasing property value.

Field windbreaks protect a variety of wind-sensitive row, forage, orchard and vine crops,
control wind erosion, and increase bee pollination.52

Livestock windbreaks help reduce animal stress and mortality, reduce feed consumption,
and help reduce visual impacts and odors.53 Livestock protected by a windbreak will use more
feed for weight gain and less to maintain body heat. Windbreaks also can provide protection
for feedlots, pastures, calving areas, and confinement buildings. An outdoor “living barn” stra-
tegically located in open pasture can be helpful during calving and lambing season.54 Primary
windbreaks around farmsteads with secondary windbreaks around livestock facilities may
provide optimum benefits.55

Living snowfences keep trails clean of drifting snow and increase driving safety. They can
also shade snow across alleys, preserving snowpack and increasing spring soil moisture.56

Building windbreaks can reduce heating and cooling bills by decreasing the speed of sum-
mer and winter winds.57




Figure 46. Windbreak
This multi-row farmstead windbreak in Pocahontas
County, Iowa, includes shrubs, conifers, and
deciduous trees. Few (if any) plants are edible, but
it still serves as an excellent example of a properly
designed windbreak.
Photo by Lynn Betts, USDA NRCS
                                                                  Edible Windbreak   45


INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT
These properties were assessed on the site:
• Area of desired protection, the desired
  wind speed in the area, and its distance
  from the future windbreak
• Prevailing wind direction and speed
  throughout all seasons
• Existing and future locations of plantings,
  roads, livestock grazing areas, and all
  buildings
• Soil types and drainage
• Sunlight
• Topography
• Property lines
• Existing wildlife habitat
• Beneficial insects, birds, native pollinators
  that need support
• Alternate host plants for diseases, such as
  cedar-apple rust




                                                    Summer
                                                     Wind




                                                             0   30       50 FT




Figure 47. Edible Windbreak Base Map
Wind direction and the desired area of protection
help form a foundation for the design.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Edible Windbreak   46


CONCEPT DESIGN
Several factors must be simultaneously considered to design an effective windbreak.

Height                                                                                                  Tips
The windbreak height primarily determines the amount of protection received downwind; the               • Windbreaks are most effective when oriented at right angles to prevailing or troublesome
taller the windbreak the greater zone of protection. Use the distance between the middle of                winds.
the windbreak and the end of the area of protection to determine the windbreak height. Also             • Eliminate all gaps. Breaks in a windbreak become funnels that concentrate and accelerate
consider the reduction of wind speed desired. For example, wind speed is reduced by 78%                    wind velocity.
at a distance of 5 times the windbreak height. In this design, the distance between the middle          • Establish crop plants on the downwind side of a windbreak to increase yields.
of the windbreak and the end of the protected
area is 200 feet. To achieve an 78% reduction
in wind speed, the tallest trees must reach at
least 40 feet (40 feet tall x 5 = 200 feet). See
the Iowa State University Extension publication
Farmstead Windbreaks: Planning for additional
calculations for wind speed reductions.58

Length
Extend the planting beyond the protected area
by at least 10 times the height of the windbreak
to reduce turbulence at the ends. In this ex-
ample, the 40 foot tall windbreak must extend at
least 400 feet north and east.
Density
Allowing some air to pass through a windbreak
reduces wind speed over the greatest distance.
The most effective windbreaks are 50% perme-
able. With a permeable windbreak, some wind
slips through to form layers of air. This blanket                    Short and Medium   Tall Conifers        Short and Medium
of layered air helps to keep blustery winds aloft                    Trees and Shrubs                        Trees and Shrubs
after passing over the top of the windbreak.
Very little protection from wind is provided with
windbreaks below 30% density.
Windbreak Density59
60-80% Winter protection of structures,
        livestock, farmsteads, and roads as
        well as noise and visual screens.
40-60% Crop and soil protection.
25-30% Snow distribution.

To achieve a density of 60% or more, plant at
least three rows of trees and shrubs with at
least one row being conifers. The standard ar-
rangement is a row of shrubs with two rows of
conifers. The function, durability, and longevity
of a windbreak improves with each additional
row up to 10 rows.60


                                                                                                                                                                 0               30        50 FT



Figure 48. Edible Windbreak Concept Design
Each windbreak row contains specific plant types.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Edible Windbreak      47


PLANT SELECTION
Windbreaks can increase the biological control of crop insect pests by incorporating specific                      Avoid alternate plant hosts of diseases, such as cedar-apple rust.
plants that provide habitat for beneficial wildlife. Identify desired insects and birds and then
choose plant species that support that wildlife. Larger windbreaks will support more wildlife.                     Evergreen trees and shrubs are valuable in the windbreak for their winter function. Consider
                                                                                                                   species of conifers that yield crops, other than their value as lumber trees, such as pine nuts
Forage tree legumes can be planted as “fodder banks” along tree lines. Foliage from these                          and medicinal oils.
trees is usually harvested under a cut-and-carry system and can be a principal source of
high quality fodder to supplement lower quality crop residue fodder.61

Form    Common Name                 Genus / Species          Hardiness   Height   Width    Light                      Water              Crops     Materials          Nitrogen   Nutrient               Ground    Nectary   Medicine
                                                             Zones                                                                                                    Fixer      Accumulator            Cover
Tree    Crabapple, Siberian         Malus baccata            3           30'      25'      Full Sun                   Mesic              Fruit                                   K
Tree    Dogwood, Cornelian Cherry   Cornus mas               4-8         20'      20'      Full Sun - Part Shade      Mesic              Berries
Tree    Fir, White                  Abies concolor           3-7         40-70'   20-30'   Full Sun - Part Shade      Mesic
Tree    Serviceberry, Downy         Amelanchier arborea      4-9         15-25'   15-25'   Full Sun - Part Shade      Mesic              Berries
Tree    Spruce, Black Hills         Picea glauca             2-6         20-40'   10-15'   Full Sun                   Mesic
Shrub   Aronia Berry, Black         Aronia melanocarpa       3-9         5-6’     5-6’     Full Sun - Part Shade      Mesic - Hydric     Berries
Shrub   Juniper, Common             Juniperus communis       2-7         2-4'     3-5'     Full Sun                   Xeric - Mesic
Shrub   Nanking Cherry              Prunus tomentosa         3-7         6-10'    6-8'     Full Sun                   Xeric - Mesic      Fruit
Shrub   Peashrub, Siberian          Caragana arborescens     2-7         8-20'    12-18'   Full Sun                   Xeric - Mesic                                     x
Shrub   Saskatoon                   Amelanchier alnifolia    2-7         5-15'    5-15'    Full Sun                   Mesic              Berries
Herb    Clover, Dutch White         Trifolium repens         4-8         4-10"    6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade      Xeric - Mesic                                     x                                 x
Herb    Clover, Miniclover          Trifolium repens         4-8         4"       6-36"    Full Sun - Part Shade      Xeric - Mesic                                     x                                 x
Herb    Comfrey                     Symphytum x uplandicum   4-9         3-5’     3-5’     Full Sun - Full Shade      Xeric - Mesic                                              K, P, Ca, Cu, Fe, Mg                       x
Herb    Goldenseal                  Hydrastis canadensis     3-8         1'       1'       Part Shade                 Mesic              Root                                                                               x
Herb    Purple Coneflower           Echinacea purpurea       3-8         3-4'     1-2'     Full Sun - Part Shade      Xeric - Mesic                                                                                 G       x
Herb    Strawberry, Wild            Fragaria virginiana      3-8         4-12"    Indef.   Full Sun - Part Shade      Xeric - Mesic      Berries                                 Fe                       x

Figure 49. Edible Windbreak Plant List




                                                                                                                   Figure 50. Purple Coneflower
                                                                                                                   The stiff, upright stems of purple coneflower
                                                                                                                   (Echinacea purpurea) can decrease wind speed
                                                                                                                   and accumulate snow in a windbreak. The flowers,
                                                                                                                   leaves and roots can be sold as medicinals.
                                                                                                                   Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                               Edible Windbreak   48


CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
This design depicts 3 offset rows of conifer and fruit trees with an understory of shrubs and     can be used for fruit preserves and juice in addition to being a nectar source for beneficial
herbs that can provide marketable products.62                                                     insects.
• Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) provides needles that can be sold for medicine and        • Purple coneflower (Echinacea purpurea) can be harvested for seed, mulch, floral arrange-
   brewing.                                                                                       ments, and medicine while also providing nectar and building soil with its deep roots.
• White fir (Abies concolor) yields lumber and medicinal essential oil.                         • Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis) is harvested for medicine, serves as a ground cover,
• Juniper (Juniperus communis) berries are used to flavor gin.                                    and thrives under the shade of trees.
• Siberian peashrub (Caragana arborescens) fixes nitrogen and has edible seeds.                 • Comfrey (Symphytum x uplandicum) serves many ecological functions: nectar source,
• Siberian crabapple (Malus baccata), saskatoon (Amelanchier alnifolia), Nanking cherry           ground cover, mulch, nutrient accumulator, and invertebrate shelter.
   (Prunus tomentosa), cornelian cherry (Cornus mas) and aronia berry (Aronia melanocarpa)

ESTABLISHMENT AND
MANAGEMENT IDEAS
The first 1-3 years of growth are very impor-
tant to the long-term vitality of the windbreak.
Plants will require weed and grass control,
                                                                                                                                    White Fir
replanting, animal protection, pest and
disease control, pruning, and fertilization.
                                                                                                                                   Cornelian Cherry Dogwood
Planting conifers too closely is a common             Common Juniper
mistake which causes their lifespan to be
reduced as they grow into on one another.                    Saskatoon                                                             Douglas Fir
Trees will be over-planting and then thinning
as plants mature. White fir are a Christmas                                                                                                                           Ground Cover
tree species, providing a holiday income for a       Siberian Peashrub
few years in the large windbreaks.
                                                        Nanking Cherry                                                             Aronia Berry
See the Producing Marketable Products from
Living Snow Fences publication from the              Siberian Crabapple
University of Minnesota Extension Service                                                                                                    Saskatoon
for detailed lists of per-acre establishment
costs and revenue for selected windbreak
plants.63




                                                                                                                                                                  0            30       50 FT


Figure 51. Edible Windbreak Conceptual Site
Plan
The middle row of conifers will eventually grow up
to 40 feet high which will decrease wind speed 200
feet away by 78% .
REFERENCES
REFERENCES




Figure 58. Heartnut
The high-yielding heartnut tree (Juglans ailantifolia var.
cordiformis) yields nuts that are easy to crack.
Photo by Fred Meyer
                                                                                                                                                                                                 References      50

1.    Mudge and Gabriel, Farming the Woods. (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2014), 3.
2.    Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. I, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 31.
3.    Gliessman, Innovative Biological Technologies for Lesser Developed Countries: Multiple Cropping Systems (Library of Congress, 1985), 69.
4.    Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 10: Economic Considerations. (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
5.    Conservation Practices that Save: Integrated Pest Management. (USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service, 2014).
6.    Agroforestry: Working Trees for Sequestering Carbon on Agricultural Lands. (USDA National Agroforestry Center, 2008), http://nac.unl.edu/research/publications.htm
7.    Soil and Water Conservation (SWC) Technologies and Agroforestry Systems. (International Institute of Rural Reconstruction, 1992), http://www.fastonline.org/CD3WD_40/CD3WD/AGRIC/II07SE/EN/B1456_10.HTM
8.    Engineering Field Tools. (USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service, 2014), http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/nrcs/detail/national/technical/engineering/?cid=stelprdb1186070
9.    Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. I, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 167.
10.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 2: Planning for Agroforestry (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014). http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php.
11.   P. A. Yeomans, The Keyline Plan, (1954), http://www.soilandhealth.org/01aglibrary/010125yeomans/010125toc.html.
12.   Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. I, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 86.
13.   Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. I, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 101.
14.   Intercropping: Crop Diversity and Pest Management. (University of Florida IFAS Extension, 2014), http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/in922
15.   Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. I, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 105.
16.   Orchard Floor Management, (Washington State University, 2014), http://www.tfrec.wsu.edu/pages/organic/Orchard_Floor.
17.   Orchard Floor Management: Row Middle and Tree Row, (Penn State Extension, 2014), http://extension.psu.edu
18.   Granatstein and Mullinix, Mulching Options for Northwest Organic and Conventional Orchards, (2008).
19.   Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. II, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 437.
20.   John Jeavons, How to Grow More Vegetables, (Ten Speed Press, 2002).
21.   Fruits and Nuts for Edible Landscaping. (Purdue University Cooperative Extension Service, 2001).
22.   Wikipedia. (2014). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecological_succession.
23.   Dave Jacke, Edible Forest Gardens, Vol. II, (Chelsea Green Publishing Company, 2005), 109.
24.   Agroforestry: Trees of Life website. Overstory #50 - Animal Tractor Systems. (2014). http://www.agroforestry.net/overstory-back-issues
25.   Agroforestry: Trees of Life website. Overstory #35 - Animals in Agroforestry. (2014). http://www.agroforestry.net/overstory-back-issues
26.   Fairies. The Ultimate Guide to Permacutlure, (Skyhorse Publishing, 2012).
27.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php.
28.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 3: Alley Cropping, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
29.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 3: Alley Cropping, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
30.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 3: Alley Cropping, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
31.   Smith, Tree Crops: A Permanent Agriculture, (Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1929).
32.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 3: Alley Cropping, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
33.   Upplands Stiftelsen: Project Snowbal. (2014). http://www.upplandsstiftelsen.se/eng/snowbal 4795
34.   Tenth Acre Farm website: Benefits of the Edible Forest Garden. (2014) http://www.tenthacrefarm.com/2013/07/benefits-of-the-edible-forest-garden/
35.   Bill Mollison, Introduction to Permaculture, (Ten Speed Press, 1997).
36.   Tenth Acre Farm website: Benefits of the Edible Forest Garden. (2014) http://www.tenthacrefarm.com/2013/07/benefits-of-the-edible-forest-garden/
37.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Appendix Section 2: Trees and Shrubs for Agroforestry, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
38.   Kemp, Soil Food Web: News Leaf #51, (2014), http://biodynamics.net.au/resources/biodynamic-articles/
39.   Weaver, Growing Elderberries: A New Market for U.S. Farmers, (2014), http://cfgrower.com/growing-elderberries-a-new-market-for-u-s-farmers/
40.   USDA National Agroforestry Center website. (2014). http://nac.unl.edu.
41.   Woodland Improvement and Crop Trees in Iowa, (Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, 2005), http://store.extension.iastate.edu/Product/Woodland-Improvement-and-Crop-Trees-in-Iowa
42.   Forest Mushroom Cultivation at Cornell, (2014), http://www.cornellmushrooms.org
43.   USDA National Agroforestry Center website, (2014), http://nac.unl.edu
44.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 5: Upland and Riparian Forest Buffers, (2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
45.   Conservation Buffers, Buffer width design tool for surface runoff, (2008), http://nac.unl.edu/buffer, 32.
46.   Conservation Buffers, Variable buffer width, (2008), http://nac.unl.edu/buffer, 22.
47.   Conservation Buffers, Vegetation for removing pollutants from runoff, (2008), http://nac.unl.edu/buffer., 38.
48.   Plants for Riparian Buffers, (2011), http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
49.   The Land Institute website, (2014), http://www.landinstitute.org.
50.   Developing Water Trails in Iowa, Chapter 4: Land and Stream Management. (Iowa Department of Natural Resources, 2014), http://www.iowadnr.gov
51.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 6: Windbreaks, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
52.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 6: Windbreaks, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
53.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 6: Windbreaks, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
54.   Agroforestry Notes: Outdoor Living Barns, (USDA National Agroforestry Center. 1996), http://nac.unl.edu/windbreaks.htm
55.   Farmstead Windbreaks: Planning, (1997), https://store.extension.iastate.edu
56.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 6: Windbreaks, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
57.   Windbreaks for Iowa, (Iowa State University Extension, 2014), http://www.extension.iastate.edu/forestry/planning/windbreaks.html
58.   Farmstead Windbreaks: Planning, (1997), https://store.extension.iastate.edu.
59.   Training Manual for Applied Agroforestry Practices, Chapter 6: Windbreaks, (The Center for Agroforestry, 2014), http://www.centerforagroforestry.org/pubs/training/index.php
60.   Farmstead Windbreaks: Planning, (1997), https://store.extension.iastate.edu.
61.   Agroforestry: Trees of Life website. Overstory #37 - Trees/Livestock Examples, (2014), http://www.agroforestry.net/overstory-back-issues
62.   Producing Marketable Products from Living Snow Fences, (University of Minnesota Extension Service, 2014), http://www.extension.umn.edu
63.   Producing Marketable Products from Living Snow Fences, (University of Minnesota Extension Service, 2014), http://www.extension.umn.edu
                    Exhibit 9
Freeze Creek Forest - Conceptual Site Plan - 20250808
                                                                                                                                                                                    ABBREVIATIONS
SITE IMPROVEMENTS                                                                                                                                                                   ACP
                                                                                                                                                                                    BLDG
                                                                                                                                                                                    CB
                                                                                                                                                                                    CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                    CIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                    CL               CENTERLINE




FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                                    CMH               COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    CMP                CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                    CMU                 CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                    CO               CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                    COMM              COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                    DIA                DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                    DMH                DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    EG               EXISTING GRADE




SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                    EL               ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                    EMH                ELECTRIC MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    ES HGW             ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                    EX               EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                    FDN               FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                                    FE               FLARED END
                                                                                                                                                                                    FG               FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                    F RP               F IBERGL AS S REIN FORCED PLASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                    GPM                 GALLONS PER MINUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                    GW               GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                    HDCI               HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                    HDPE               HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                                                                    HP               HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                    ID               INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                    INT              INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                    INV               INVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                    LD               LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                                                                    LF               LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                    LOD                LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                    LP               LOW POINT
SHEET INDEX                                                                                                                                                                         MDD                 MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                    MEG                 MATCH EXISTING GRADE

1. TITLE SHEET                                                                                                                      SITE                                            MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                    OD
                                                                                                                                                                                    PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                      OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                     POINT OF CURVATURE
2. PLAN & PROFILE, ACCESS FROM SOUTH BOUNDARY TO STAGING AREA                                                                                                                       PCC                PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                    PJDI                PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
3. PLAN & PROFILE, ACCESS FROM STAGING AREA TO OAK PLATEAU                                                                                                                          P RC               P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
 4. FOREST CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT PRACTICES                                                                                                                                        P VC              P OL YVINYL CHL ORIDE; P OIN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
5. FOREST CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT PRACTICES                                                                                                                                         PVI              POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                    PVT                 POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
6. STRUCTURES OVERVIEW PLAN                                                                                                                                                         RCP                REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                    S                SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                    SBED               STREAM BED
                                                                                                                                                                                    SD                STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                    SMH                SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    SS               SANITARY SEWER; STAINLESS STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                     TBA                TO BE ABANDONED
                                                                                                                                                                                     TBC                TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                     TBD                TO BE DETERMINED
                                                                                                                                                                                     TC              TOP OF CONCRETE

SITE DATA                                                                                                                                                                            TO
                                                                                                                                                                                     TP
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOP OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                     TYP               TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                    UD               UNDERDRAIN
PARCEL AREA:                                      4 0 . 0 ± AC                                                                                                                      UP               UTILITY POLE
ZONING DISTRICT:                                  FCOZ OVERLAY                                                                                                                      WMH                WATER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    WS               WATER SURFACE
USE:                                              FOREST IMPROVEMENT & PRESERVATION
WATER SYSTEM:                                     PRIVATE WELL                                                                                                                      ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
SEWER SYSTEM:                                     PRIVATE ON-SITE WASTEWATER SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                    COE               US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
                                                                                                                                                                                    FEMA              FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                    RMP              ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                    SLCPU            SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                    SLCO              SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                    SLCOEH           SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
PREFACE                                                                                                                                                                             UDEQ
                                                                                                                                                                                    UDOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                     UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS INTENDED A S AN INTEGRATED SET OF DRAWING SHEETS
THAT T O G E T H E R D E S C R I B E T H E W O R K . S H E E T N U M B E R A N D T O T A L N U M B E R OF
S H E E T S A R E S H O W N A T L O W E R R I G H T C O R N E R O N E V E R Y SHEET.
                                                                                                                                                                                    REFERENCES
R E Q U I RE M E N T S A R E S H O W N IN MULTIPLE V I E W S , D E T A I L S , T A B L E S A N D VIA                                                                                1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.
TEXT T H R O UGHO UT T H E DRAWING S E T . A S S U C H , N O O N E S H E E T M A Y BE
C O N S I D E R E D A L O N E . F O R C L A R I T Y , E V E R Y E F F O R T H A S B E E N M A D E T O AVOID                                                                         2.   AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.
REPETITIVE C A L L S . R E A D A N D U N D E R S T A N D T H E ENTIRE DRAWING S E T BEFORE
PROVIDING B I D S , APPLYING F O R P E R M I T S , O R COMMENCING CONSTRUCTION.

2 . B O U ND A R Y L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE O N L Y . A FULL                                                                                               DRAWING ISSUED FOR
BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE REQUIRED PRIOR TO
FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.                                                                                                                                                                  PLANNING                           CONSTRUCTION
 3 . S I T E I M P R O V E M E NT S D E P I C T E D H E R E O N D O N O T I N C L U D E A N Y BUILDING                                                                                     PERMIT                             CONSTRUCTION                                  7.24.25
 CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RECORD
 4 . B A R S C A L E S H O W N O N G O O G LE E A R T H I M A G E S I S APPROXIMATE ONLY.                                                                                           THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                    SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.




REGULATORY
1. AT LEAST TWO FULL BUSINESS DAYS PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
W O R K , C A L L 8 1 1 F O R U N D E R GROU ND UTIL ITY M A R K I N G . A L S O , P R O V I D E AT
LEAST TWO FULL BUSINESS DAYS NOTICE TO PERTINENT COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                1         07.24.25          AFS      AFS     A D D DRIVE C R O S S S E C T I O N S AN D GRADING
D E P A R T M E N T S B E F O R E COMMENCING A N Y W O R K IN T H E FIELD.
                                                                                                                                                                                NO.        DATE              BY     CHK      REVISION DESCRIPTION
2 . C O O R D I NA T E A N D OBTAIN A L L C O N S T R U C T IO N P E R M I T S R E Q U I RE D BY
R E G U L A T ORY AUTHORITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                    CANYON ENGINEERING
3. PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF ANY WORK, REVIEW AND FULLY                                                                                                                              SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
U N D E R S T A N D A L L C O N S T R U C T I ON R E Q U I RE M E N T S , C O N D I T I O NS , AND
LIMITATIONS I M P O S E D B Y P E R M I T S A N D A P P R OV A LS I S S U E D B Y REGULATORY
                                                                                                              N TWIN CREEK CIRCLE          E PIONEER FORK ROAD                                               CIVIL ENGINEERING




                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH
AUTHORITIES.                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERMITTING
4. THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS NOT LOCATED WITHIN A SPECIAL FLOOD
H A Z A R D A R E A . S E E F E M A F L O O D I N S U R A N C E R A T E M A P , COMMUNITY PANEL
NO . 4 9 0 3 5 C 0 1 8 6 G , EFFECTIVE DATE SEPTEMB ER 2 5 , 2 0 0 9 .                                                                                                                                                                                                    PO BOX 982131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                                 VICINITY MAP                                 SM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VOICE: 435.640.7373              EMAIL:     GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WWW.CANYONENG.COM


                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE IMPROVEMENTS


                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCEPT
                                                                                                                                                                                    EXHIBITS TITLE
                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                    FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                                                                                                                                                                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                    PREPARED FOR:                                              P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                    RYAN LEICK                                                 SEC 20     T1N     R2E
                                                                                                                                                                                    SANDY, UTAH                                                SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                        C A LL RIGHT S RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                DES. BY:       AFS

                                                                                                                                                                                CHK. BY:       AFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE:     NOVEMBER       2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JOB         2405                  1 OF 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGEND                                                                                                                  ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACP             ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLDG            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING S U R F A C E R U N O F F DIRECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CB              CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CFS             CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P R O P O S E D S U R F A C E R U N O F F DIRECTION                                                                     CIP             CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CL              CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING SPOT GRADE                    x 7 2 0 8 .00                   7 2 90       CMH             COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CMP             CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  & SURFACE CONTOUR                        TBG                           7 2 92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO              CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                             12.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH SPOT GRADE                       6 4 0 0.0                  7270           COMM             COMMUNICATIONS
0+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DIA              DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  & SURFACE CONTOUR                         FG                         7276                             DRAIN MANHOLE
       5+57                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                               CL DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EG              EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FINISH GRADE AT TOP & BOTTOM OF                                      5 0 . 0 FGTW                              EL              ELEVATION
          STAGING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6' (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BACK OF GRAVEL SHOULDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALL                                    4 6 . 8 FGBW                              EMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ES HGW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELECTRIC MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
          AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1-FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (TYP) [SEE NOTE 3]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SOIL EVAL UATION TEST PIT                                        1012-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FDN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                    EDGE TRAVELED WAY                                                                                        SHOULDER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FE              FLARED END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (TYP)                                                                                                                                                                            PERC TEST                            1012-A                             FG              FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                    (TYP)                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FRP             F IBERGL AS S REIN F ORCED PLASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P R O PE RT Y LINE                                                           GPM             GALLONS PER MINUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GW              GROUNDWATER
                                                                                          SEE SWPPP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HDCI            HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                          R E Q U I RE M E N T S (TYP)                                                                               10.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S E T B A C K LINE                                                        HDPE            HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HP              HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                              EASEMENT LIMIT                                                               ID              INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3'                                                  CUT                                                                                                                                                                   INT             INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1                                                                                                                                                                                   INV             INVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2'                                                                                                        E X U N D E R GROUN D G A S LINE                                                                              LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LD
                                                                                                                                                              1/4" PER FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LF              LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E X U N D E R GRO UND P O W E R LINE                                                                     LOD             LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LP              LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FINISH GRADE                                                                                                                                                            MDD             MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EX OVERHEAD WIRE                                                                MEG                MATCH EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                            VARIES 1 TO 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MUTCD             MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DITCH                                                                                E X U N D E R GRO UND COMMUNICATIONS                                                                          OD              OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PC              POINT OF CURVATURE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18"
                                                                                   FILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PCC             PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4 - I N C H C O M P A C T E D DEPTH,                                                                                                                                                E X U N D E R G ROUND WATER LINE
                                                           GENERAL LOCATON                                                       [SEE NOTE 1]                                                                                              UNTREATED ROAD BASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PJDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX SANITARY SEWER LINE                                                              PVC             P OL YVIN YL CHL O RIDE; P O IN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
                                                           OF EX STAIRS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PVI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PVT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C O N C E P T UA L C U L V E R T LOCATION                                                                 RCP             REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 U N D I S T U RBE D S O I L A N D R O C K OR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S               SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S U B G RA D E C O M P A C T E D T O 9 5 %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SBED            STREAM BED
                                                                                                                 S T R I P T O P S O I L A N D O T H E R ORGANICS                                OF MAX DRY DENSITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD              STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                 U N D E R F U L L WIDTH O F R O A D B A S E AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SMH             SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS              S AN ITARY S EW ER; S TAIN L ES S STEEL
                                                                                                                 REMOVE FROM SITE [SEE NOTE 1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TO BE ABANDONED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBC             TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TBD             TO BE DETERMINED
                                                                                          NOTES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TC              TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TO TP           TOP OF
                                                                                          1 P L A C E 6-I N C H-M I NUS G R A N UL A R B O R R OW A N D MECHANICALLY COMPACT;                                                                                GW      WEL L -GRADED GRAVEL ; GRAVEL -SAND MIXTURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOP OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TYP
                                                                                          MAX C O M P A C T E D LIFT T H I C K N E S S = 1 2 I N C H E S . OBTAIN ENGINEER APPROVAL                                                                          GM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S I L T Y G R A V E L S ; G R A V E L -S A ND -S I LT MIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C L A Y E Y G R A V E L S ; G R A V E L -S A N D-C L A Y MIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ELEVATION DATUM                                                                                                         UD              TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNDERDRAIN
                                                                                          FOR USE OF ON-SITE EXCAVATED MATERIAL S. WHETHER IMPORT OR ON-SITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SW     WEL L-GRA D E D S A N D S ; G R A V E L LY SANDS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WMH             UTILITY POLE
                                                                                          E X C A V A T E D , P R O V I D E G R A N UL A R B O R ROW C O M P R I S E D O F UNIFIED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WATER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SM      S I L T Y S A N D S ; S A N D - S I L T MIXTURE                                                                                          NAVD 8 8      EL EVATIONS IN FEET                                                                                       WS
                                                                                          C L A S S I F I C A T I O N G R O UPS L I S T E D IN T A B L E A T R I G H T . TARGET R O C K P O R T I ON OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WATER SURFACE
                                                                                          FILL = 2 0 TO 3 0 % .                                                                                                                                              SC     C L A Y E Y S A N D S ; C L A Y - S A N D MIXTURE
                                                                                          2 F I N E G R A D E A N D MECHANICALLY C O M P A C T SHOULDERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
                                                                                          3 C O N S T R UC T DRIVEWAY T O S M O O T H L INE A N D GRADE.
                                                                                          4 WIDTHS SHOWN ARE MINIMUM. GREATER WIDTHS REQUIRED AT TRANSITION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COE             US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
                                                                                          RADII AND TAPERS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PREFACE                                                                                                                 FEMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SLCPU           SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1 . B O U N D A RY L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE ONLY.                                              SLCO             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SLCOEH          SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                                                                                               DRIVEWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A FULL BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REQUIRED PRIOR TO FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UDEQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UDOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                                               TYPICAL C R O S S SECTION
                                                                                                               NOT TO SCALE
                                                    6450




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REFERENCES
                                                           CONCEPTUAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.
                                      6400




                                                           A C C E S S CL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2.




 0+00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWING ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLANNING                         CONSTRUCTION
                                   SOUTH BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PERMIT                           CONSTRUCTION                                  7.24.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.


     PLAN VIEW                                                                                     STA 0 + 0 0 . 0 0
                                                                                                   S O U T H L O T LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10.85%

                                                                                                                 6480                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STAGING
                                                                                                                 6470                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6470      AREA
                    NORTH




                                                                                                                 6460                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6460                                            1         0 7 .24.25     AFS       AFS      A D D DRIVE C R O S S S E C T I O N S AN D GRADING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EX CL GRADE                                                                                                                                                                                               NO.        DATE           BY     CHK      REVISION DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                 6450                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6450
              HORIZONTAL SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CANYON ENGINEERING
40             0      20      40      80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
                                                                                                                 6440                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6440
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH CL GRADE
                   ( FEET )
                                                                    PROPOSED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                 6430                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6430                                                                        PERMITTING
                                                                    PARKING AREA                                                                                                                                        18.38%
                                                                                                   ELEVATION




                                                                                                                 6420                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6420                                                                                                                                     PO BOX 982131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VOICE: 435.640.7373             EMAIL:     GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                 6410                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6410                                                                                                                              WWW.CANYONENG.COM


                                                                                                                 6400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6400                                                SITE IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROFILE KEY
                                                                                                                 6390                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6390
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FINISH CL GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ACCESS - FROM SOUTH BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                 6380                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6380
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLAN & PROFILE
                                                                                                                       6382.71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7104.22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6452.15
                                                                                                                                                6388.62




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6415.52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6443.22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6468.43
                                                                                                                                                                             6396.94




                                                                                                                                                                                                              6406.29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6424.76




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6434.09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6460.98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6473.86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6474.60
                                                                                                                 6370                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6370                                                FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX CL GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                                                                                                                 6360                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6360
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                 6382.71




                                                                                                                                                          6386.81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6408.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6411.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6424.29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6431.59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6435.19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6449.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6457.87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6466.66




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6472.63
                                                                                                                                                                                       6396.68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6474.60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7107.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3.11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -1.86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.03
                                                                                                                                   0.00




                                                                                                                                                                                         0.27




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.92




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.78
                                                                                                                                                            1.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -2.78
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREPARED FOR:                                            P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                                                                                                                 6350                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RYAN LEICK                                               SEC 20     T1N     R2E
                                                                                                                     0+00                       0+50                         1+00                             1+50                           2+00                            2+50                       3+00                          3+50                            4+00                4+50                               5+00                             5+55+057                                        CUT (-) OR FILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SANDY, UTAH                                              SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FROM EX TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STATION                                                                                                                                                                                                     FINISH CL GRADE

                                                                                                                PROFILE VIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DES. BY:      AFS      C A LL RIGH TS RESERVED


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHK. BY:      AFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE:    NOVEMBER        2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JOB         2405                  2 OF 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND                                                                                     ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACP             ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLDG            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXISTING S U R F A C E R U N O F F DIRECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                    CONCEPTUAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P R O P O S E D S U R F A C E R U N O F F DIRECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                    A C C E S S CL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING SPOT GRADE               x 7 2 0 8 .00       7 2 90       CMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CMP             CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               & SURFACE CONTOUR                   TBG               7 2 92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CMU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO              CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FINISH SPOT GRADE                 6 4 0 0.0       7270          COMM             COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DIA              DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                & SURFACE CONTOUR                   FG              7276                            DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EG              EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FINISH GRADE AT TOP & BOTTOM OF                     5 0 . 0 FGTW                  EL              ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WALL                   4 6 . 8 FGBW                  EMH               ELECTRIC MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ES HGW           ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX              EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOIL EVAL UATION TEST PIT                     1012-2                  FDN             FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FE              FLARED END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PERC TEST             1012-A                    FG              FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FRP             F IBERGL AS S REIN F ORCED PLASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GPM             GALLONS PER MINUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                     P R O PE RT Y LINE                                       GW              GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HDCI            HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S E T B A C K LINE                                     HDPE            HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CL DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HP              HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ID              INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6' (TYP)                                                                                                                                                              EASEMENT LIMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BACK OF GRAVEL SHOULDER                                                                                                                         INT             INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INV             INVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (TYP) [SEE NOTE 3]                                                    E X U N D E R GROUN D G A S LINE                                                          LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1-FT                                                                                                                                                                                                 LD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LF              LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EDGE TRAVEL ED WAY                                                                                      SHOULDER                                                                                                                                                                                            LOD             LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E X U N D E R GRO UND P O W E R LINE
                                                                                                                                          0+00                                                                                                                        (TYP)                                                                                                   (TYP)                                               EXISTING GRADE                                                                                                                                  LP              LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MDD             MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX OVERHEAD WIRE                                               MEG                MATCH EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                 STAGING                                           SEE SWPPP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E X U N D E R GRO UND COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MUTCD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                 AREA                                              R E Q U I RE M E N T S (TYP)                                                                        10.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  POINT OF CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.5                                                         E X U N D E R G ROUND WATER LINE                                           PJDI            PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'                                        CUT                                                                                                                          PRC             P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                         EX SANITARY SEWER LINE                                             PVC             P OL YVIN YL CHL O RIDE; P O IN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PVI             POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1/4" PER FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PVT             POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C O N C E P T UA L C U L V E R T LOCATION                                    RCP             REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S               SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FINISH GRADE                                                                                                                   SBED            STREAM BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                     VARIES 1 . 5 TO 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD              STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SMH             SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DITCH                                                                                                                                  SS              S AN ITARY S EW ER; S TAIN L ES S STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TBA             TO BE ABANDONED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18"
                                                                                                                                                                                            FILL
                         7+06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TBC             TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4 - I N C H C O M P A C T E D DEPTH,                                                                                                                                                                                                   TBD             TO BE DETERMINED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         [SEE NOTE 1]                                                                                      UNTREATED ROAD BASE                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TC              TOP OF CONCRETE
      OAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO TP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOP OF PAVEMENT

      PLATEAU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U N D I S T U RBE D S O I L A N D R O C K OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UNDERDRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UTILITY POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S U B G RA D E C O M P A C T E D T O 9 5 %                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WMH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WS              WATER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S T R I P T O P S O I L A N D O T H E R ORGANICS               OF MAX DRY DENSITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WATER SURFACE
                                                                                NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                U N D E R F U L L WIDTH O F R O A D B A S E AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REMOVE FROM SITE [SEE NOTE 1]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ELEVATION DATUM                                                                            COE             US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
PLAN VIEW                                                     HORIZONTAL SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 P L A C E 6-I N C H-M I NUS G R A N ULA R B O R R OW A N D MECHANICAL LY COMPACT;                                                              GW               WEL L-GRADED GRAVEL ; GRAVEL -SAND MIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NAVD 8 8      EL EVATIONS IN FEET                                                          SLCPU           SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                   40          0                  20    40                       80                                                                                MAX C O M P A C T E D L IFT T H I C K N E S S = 1 2 I N C H E S . OBTAIN ENGINEER APPROVAL                                                       GM              S I L T Y G R A V E L S ; G R A V E L -S A ND -S I L T MIXTURE                                                                                                                                                SLCO             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR USE OF ON-SITE EXCAVATED MATERIAL S. WHETHER IMPORT OR ON-SITE                                                                               GC              C L A Y E Y G R A V E L S ; G R A V E L -S A N D-C L A Y MIXTURE                                                                                                                                              SLCOEH          SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   E X C A V A T E D , P R O V I D E G R A N ULA R B O R ROW C O M P R I S E D O F UNIFIED                                                          SW              WEL L -GRA D E D S A N D S ; G R A V E L LY SANDS                                                                                                                                                             UDEQ            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SM              S I L T Y S A N D S ; S A N D - S I L T MIXTURE                                                                                                                                                               UDOT            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                             ( FEET )                                                                                                              C L A S S I F I C A T I O N G R O UPS L I S T E D IN T A B L E A T R I G H T . TARGET R O C K P O R T I ON OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SC              C L A Y E Y S A N D S ; C L A Y - S A N D MIXTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FILL = 2 0 TO 3 0 % .
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2 F I N E G R A D E A N D MECHANICALLY C O M P A C T SHOULDERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PREFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 C O N S T R UC T DRIVEWAY T O S M O O T H L INE A N D GRADE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFERENCES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4 WIDTHS SHOWN ARE MINIMUM. GREATER WIDTHS REQUIRED AT TRANSITION                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 . B O U N D A RY L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE ONLY.                 1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   RADII AND TAPERS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A FULL BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REQUIRED PRIOR TO FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.                                                2.   AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRIVEWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TYPICAL C R O S S SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NOT TO SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWING ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PLANNING                         CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PERMIT                           CONSTRUCTION                                  7.24.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.




      STA 0 + 0 0 . 0 0
      STAGING AREA



                  6560                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6560            OAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLATEAU
                  6550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6550                                                                                                                                      1         0 7 .24.25     AFS       AFS      A D D DRIVE C R O S S S E C T I O N S AN D GRADING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NO.        DATE           BY     CHK      REVISION DESCRIPTION
                  6540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6540
                                                                                                                                                                            EX GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CANYON ENGINEERING
                  6530                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6530                                                                                                                                          SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CIVIL ENGINEERING
                  6520                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6520                                                                                                                                                                  LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERMITTING


                  6510                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6510
      ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PO BOX 982131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SM


                  6500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6500                                                                                                                                                                             VOICE: 435.640.7373             EMAIL:     GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.CANYONENG.COM

                  6490                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6490                                                                                                                                          SITE IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROFILE KEY
                  6480                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6480
STAGING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FINISH CL GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACCESS - FROM STAGING AREA
AREA              6470                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6470
                                                                                                                                                    6506.21




                                                                                                                                                                        6511.21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6526.11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLAN & PROFILE
                                                                                                                      6501.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6544.32
                                                                                             6496.09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6521.14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6531.07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6537.47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6551.16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6554.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6555.10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7104.22
                     6474.60




                                         6482.10




                                                                   6489.60




                                                                                                                                                                                                            6516.18




                  6460                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6460
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX CL GRADE                                                                                                     FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65-15.66.322




                  6450                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6450
                                                    6484.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6520.25
                                                                             6492.09




                                                                                                                                6498.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6526.46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6528.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6552.93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6556.50
                               6474.60




                                                                                                       6496.90




                                                                                                                                                              6505.88




                                                                                                                                                                                  6515.07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6515.17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6533.90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6544.38




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7107.00
                                                      -1.91




                                                                                                         -0.81
                                                                               -2.49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -0.35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -1.77




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -1.12
                                                                                                                                                                                    -3.85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -0.06
                                 0.00




                                                                                                                                                                0.32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.89
                                                                                                                                  2.32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -2.78




                  6440                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6440                                                                                                                                                 PREPARED FOR:                                            P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                      0+00               0+50                   1+00                         1+50                     2+00                         2+50                 3+00                                3+50                             4+00                   4+50                 5+00                          5+50                          6+00                             6+50                            7+70+006                                       CUT (-) OR FILL                                                                                              RYAN LEICK                                               SEC 20     T1N     R2E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FROM EX TO                                                                                                   SANDY, UTAH                                              SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FINISH CL GRADE


PROFILE VIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DES. BY:      AFS      C A LL RIGH TS RESERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DATE:    NOVEMBER        2024     JOB         2405                  3 OF 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHK. BY:      AFS                  CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                              ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                              ACP             ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                              BLDG            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                              CB              CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                              CFS             CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                                                                                                                                                              CIP             CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                              CL              CENTERLINE




                                                                                                                NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                              CMH             COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                              CMP             CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                              CMU             CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                              CO              CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                              COMM             COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                              DIA               DIAMETER
                                                                                                       HORIZONTAL SCALE                                                       DMH               DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                              EG              EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                      200                0       100      200               400                               EL              ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                              EMH               ELECTRIC MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                              ES HGW            ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                              EX              EXISTING
                                                                                                               ( FEET )                                                       FDN             FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                              FE              FLARED END
                                                                                                                                                                              FG              FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                              FRP             F IBERGL AS S REIN F ORCED PLASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                              GPM             GALLONS PER MINUTE
                                                                                                                                                                              GW              GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                              HDCI            HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                                                                                                              HDPE            HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                                                              HP              HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                              ID              INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                              INT             INTERSECTION

                                                                                     ELEVATION DATUM                                                                          INV
                                                                                                                                                                              LD
                                                                                                                                                                                              INVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                              LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                                                              LF              LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                                                              LOD             LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                     NAVD 8 8      EL EVATIONS IN FEET                                                        LP              LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                              MDD             MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                                                              MEG                MATCH EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                              MUTCD             MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                                              OD              OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                              PC              POINT OF CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                              PCC             PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                              PJDI            PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
                                                                                                                                                                              PRC             P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
                                                                                     LEGEND                                                                                   PVC
                                                                                                                                                                              PVI
                                                                                                                                                                                              P OL YVIN YL CHL O RIDE; P O IN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                              POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                              PVT             POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                              RCP             REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                             EXISTING SPOT GRADE           x 7 2 0 8 .00          7 2 90      S               SLOPE
                                                                                                             & SURFACE CONTOUR               TBG                  7 2 92      SBED            STREAM BED
                                                                                                                                                                              SD              STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                              SMH             SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                              SS              S AN ITARY S EW ER; S TAIN L ES S STEEL
                                                                                                   APPROXIMATE P R O PE RT Y LINE                                             TBA              TO BE ABANDONED
                                                                                                                                                                              TBC              TOP BACK OF CURB
                            6450




                                                                 6450
                                                                                                                                                                              TBD              TO BE DETERMINED
                     6400




                                                          6400
                                                                                                                                                                              TC               TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                       P R O P O S E D C S P B M P LIMIT                                      TO TP            TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                              TYP              TOP OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                              UD               TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                              UP              UNDERDRAIN
                                                                                                P R O P O S E D A C C E S S CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                              WMH             UTILITY POLE
                                                                                                                                                                              WS              WATER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                              WATER SURFACE

                                                                                                                                                                              ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                              COE             US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
                                                                                     PREFACE                                                                                  FEMA
                                                                                                                                                                              RMP
                                                                                                                                                                                              FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                              ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                              SLCPU           SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                                                     1 . B O U N D A RY L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE ONLY.               SLCO             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                              SLCOEH          SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                                                                     A FULL BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE                                 UDEQ            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                     REQUIRED PRIOR TO FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.                                              UDOT            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
CPS 391 - RIPARIAN FOREST BUFFER     CPS 410 - GRADE STABILIZATION STRUCTURES
                                                                                                                                                                              REFERENCES
                                                                                                                                                                              1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.

                                                                                                                                                                              2.   AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.




                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWING ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                      PLANNING                        CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                      PERMIT                          CONSTRUCTION                             7.24.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                              THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                              SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                                                              NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.




                                                                                                                                                                           NO.        DATE           BY    CHK      REVISION DESCRIPTION


                                                                                                                                                                              CANYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                              SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                      CIVIL ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PERMITTING



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PO BOX 982131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VOICE: 435.640.7373          EMAIL:       GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WWW.CANYONENG.COM
                                                                 6450




                                                                                                                                                                              SITE IMPROVEMENTS
                            6450




                                                          6400
                     6400




                                                                                                                                                                              CONSERVATION STEWARDSHIP
                                                                                                                                                                              MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
                                                                                                                                                                              FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                              PREPARED FOR:                                         P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                                                                                                                                                                              RYAN LEICK                                            SEC 20     T1N       R2E
CPS 490 - TREE AND SHRUB SITE PREP   CPS 580 - STREAMBANK AND SHORELINE PROTECTION                                                                                            SANDY, UTAH                                           SLB&M



                                                                                                                                                                           DES. BY:    AFS       C A LL RIGH TS RESERVED


                                                                                                                                                                           CHK. BY:     AFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:    NOVEMBER        2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                             CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JOB       2405               4 OF 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACP             ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BLDG            BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CB              CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CFS             CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIP             CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CL              CENTERLINE




                                                                                                                                     NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CMH             COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CMP             CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CMU             CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CO              CLEANOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMM             COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                   DIA               DIAMETER
                                                                                                                            HORIZONTAL SCALE                                                       DMH               DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EG              EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                           200                0       100      200               400                               EL              ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EMH               ELECTRIC MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ES HGW            ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX              EXISTING
                                                                                                                                    ( FEET )                                                       FDN             FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FE              FLARED END
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FG              FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FRP             F IBERGL AS S REIN F ORCED PLASTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                   GPM             GALLONS PER MINUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   GW              GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   HDCI            HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                   HDPE            HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   HP              HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ID              INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   INT             INTERSECTION

                                                                                                          ELEVATION DATUM                                                                          INV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   LD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INVERT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   LF              LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOD             LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                          NAVD 8 8      EL EVATIONS IN FEET                                                        LP              LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MDD             MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MEG                MATCH EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MUTCD             MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   OD              OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PC              POINT OF CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PCC             PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PJDI            PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PRC             P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
                                                                                                          LEGEND                                                                                   PVC
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PVI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P OL YVIN YL CHL O RIDE; P O IN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PVT             POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   RCP             REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                                                  EXISTING SPOT GRADE           x 7 2 0 8 .00          7 2 90      S               SLOPE
                                                                                                                                  & SURFACE CONTOUR               TBG                  7 2 92      SBED            STREAM BED
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD              STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SMH             SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SS              S AN ITARY S EW ER; S TAIN L ES S STEEL
                                                                                                                        APPROXIMATE P R O PE RT Y LINE                                             TBA              TO BE ABANDONED
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TBC              TOP BACK OF CURB
                             6450




                                                                                6450
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TBD              TO BE DETERMINED
                      6400




                                                                         6400
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TC               TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                            P R O P O S E D C S P B M P LIMIT                                      TO TP            TOP OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                   TYP              TOP OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   UD               TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                   UP              UNDERDRAIN
                                                                                                                     P R O P O S E D A C C E S S CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   WMH             UTILITY POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   WS              WATER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WATER SURFACE

                                                                                                                                                                                                   ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   COE             US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
                                                                                                          PREFACE                                                                                  FEMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   RMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SLCPU           SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                                                                          1 . B O U N D A RY L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE ONLY.               SLCO             SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SLCOEH          SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                                                                                          A FULL BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE                                 UDEQ            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                                          REQUIRED PRIOR TO FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.                                              UDOT            UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
CPS 584 - CHANNEL BED STABILIZATION                 CPS 612 - TREE AND SHRUB ESTABLISHMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                   REFERENCES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.   AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.




                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWING ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANNING                        CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PERMIT                          CONSTRUCTION                             7.24.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                   THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.        DATE           BY    CHK      REVISION DESCRIPTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                   CANYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CIVIL ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PERMITTING



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PO BOX 982131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SM


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VOICE: 435.640.7373          EMAIL:       GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                6450




                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE IMPROVEMENTS
                             6450




                                                                         6400
                      6400




                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSERVATION STEWARDSHIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PREPARED FOR:                                         P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                   RYAN LEICK                                            SEC 20     T1N       R2E
CPS E384A - BIOCHAR PRODUCTION FROM WOODY RESIDUE   CPS E612D - ADDING FRUIT-PRODUCING TREES AND SHRUBS                                                                                            SANDY, UTAH                                           SLB&M



                                                                                                                                                                                                DES. BY:    AFS       C A LL RIGH TS RESERVED


                                                                                                                                                                                                CHK. BY:     AFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:    NOVEMBER        2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JOB       2405               5 OF 6
                               SLOPE KEY                                                                                           ABBREVIATIONS
                                                                                                                                   ACP                  ASPHALT CONCRETE PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                   BLDG              BUILDING
                                                                                                                                   CB               CATCH BASIN
                                                                                                                                   CFS                 CUBIC FEET PER SECOND
                                0 TO 3 0 %




          NORTH
                                                                                                                                   CIP              CAST-IN-PLACE
                                                                                                                                   CL               CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                   CMH               COMMUN ICATIONS MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                   CMP               CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
                                                                                                                                   CMU                 CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
                                                                                                                                   CO               CLEANOUT
     HORIZONTAL SCALE           3 0 TO 5 0 %                                                                                       COMM              COMMUNICATIONS
40   0      20       40   80                                                                                                       DIA               DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                   DMH                DRAIN MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                   EG               EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                   EL               ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                   EMH                ELECTRIC MANHOLE
          ( FEET )              OVER 5 0 %                                                                                         ES HGW            ESTIMATED S EAS ON AL HIGH GROUNDWATER
                                                                                                                                   EX               EXISTING
                                                                                                                                   FDN               FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                   FE               FLARED END
                               N O T E : S L O P E S H A D I N G I S B A S E D O N A N EXISTING SURFACE                            FG               FINISH GRADE
                                                                                                                                   F RP               F IBERGL AS S REIN FORCED PLASTIC
                               C O N T O U R INTERVAL O F 1 0 F E E T . A S S U C H , D E P I C T E D SLOPE
                                                                                                                                   GPM                 GALLONS PER MINUTE
                               RANGES ARE APPROXIMATE AND WILL CONTAIN SMALLER AREAS                                               GW               GROUNDWATER
                               WITHIN THAT ARE EITHER MORE OR LESS STEEP.                                                          HDCI               HEAVY DUTY CAST IRON
                                                                                                                                   HDPE               HIGH DENSITY POLYETHYLENE
                                                                                                                                   HP               HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                   ID               INSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                   INT              INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                   INV               INVERT
                                                                                                                                   LD               LONGEST DIMENSION
                                                                                                                                   LF               LINEAR FEET
                                                                                                                                   LOD                LIMIT OF DISTURBANCE
                                                                                                                                   LP               LOW POINT
                                                                                                                                   MDD                 MAXIMUM DRY DENSITY
                                                                                                                                   MEG                 MATCH EXISTING GRADE
                               ELEVATION DATUM                                                                                     MUTCD
                                                                                                                                   OD
                                                                                                                                                      MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
                                                                                                                                                    OUTSIDE DIAMETER
                                                                                                                                   PC               POINT OF CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                   PCC                PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE
                               NAVD 8 8          ELEVATIONS IN FEET
                                                                                                                                   PJDI                PUSH-ON JOINT DUCTILE IRON
                                                                                                                                   P RC               P RECAS T REIN F ORCED CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                   P VC              P OL YVINYL CHL ORIDE; P OIN T O F VERTICAL CURVATURE
                                                                                                                                   PVI              POINT OF VERTICAL INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                   PVT                 POINT OF VERTICAL TANGENCY
                                                                                                                                   RCP               REIN F ORCED CON CRETE PIPE
                                                                                                                                   S                SLOPE
                                                                                                                                   SBED               STREAM BED
                                                                                                                                   SD               STORM DRAIN
                               LEGEND                                                                                              SMH
                                                                                                                                   SS
                                                                                                                                                      SEWER MANHOLE
                                                                                                                                                    SANITARY SEWER; STAINLESS STEEL
                                                                                                                                    TBA                TO BE ABANDONED
                                                                                                                                    TBC                TOP BACK OF CURB
                                                           EXISTING SPOT GRADE            x 7 2 0 8 .00               7290
                                                                                                                                    TBD                TO BE DETERMINED
                                                           & SURFACE CONTOUR                TBG                       7 2 92        TC              TOP OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                    TO              TOP OF
                                                                                                                                    TP              TOP OF PAVEMENT
                                                   APPROXIMATE P R O PE RT Y LINE                                                   TYP               TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                   UD               UNDERDRAIN
                                                                                                                                   UP               UTILITY POLE
                                                                                                                                    WMH               WATER MANHOLE
                                                      P R O P O S E D C S P B M P LIMIT                                             WS              WATER SURFACE



                                                 P R O P O S E D A C C E S S CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                   ABBREVIATIONS - AGENCY
                                                                                                                                   COE              US ARMY CORP S O F ENGINEERS
                                                                                                                                   FEMA             FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY




                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                   RMP              ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                                        S T R U C T U RE A N D I D NO.                                             SLCPU            SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                   SLCO              SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                                                                                                                   SLCOEH           SALT LAKE COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                                                                                                                   UDEQ             UTAH DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                                                                                                   UDOT             UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION




                                                                                                                                   REFERENCES
                               PREFACE                                                                                             1.   TOP O GRAP HY DEP ICTED HEREON P ROVIDED BY USGS.

                                                                                                                                   2.   AERIAL PHOTO BASE ON TITLE SHEET FROM GOOGLE EARTH.
                               1 . B O U ND A R Y L I N E S S H O W N H E R E O N A R E APPROXIMATE ONLY.
                               A FULL BOUNDARY AND A C C E S S ALIGNMENT SURVEY WILL BE
                               REQUIRED PRIOR TO FINAL A C C E S S DESIGN.
                                                                                                                                   DRAWING ISSUED FOR
                                                                                                                                          PLANNING                           CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                          PERMIT                             CONSTRUCTION                             8.8.25
                                                                                                                                                                              RECORD
                                                                                                                                   THIS DRAWING MAY NOT SHOW CONSTRUCTION DETAILS AND
                                                                                                                                   SPECIFICATIONS FOR ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS, AND MAY
                                                                                                                                   NOT IDENTIFY ALL CONSTRUCTION WORK ITEMS AND AREAS OF
                                                                                                                                   CONTRACTOR JURISDICTION.




                               STRUCTURES
                               ID NO.                USE                                        DIMENSIONS

                                            1          SHED (EX)                                  7' X 7'
                                                                                                                               1         08.08.25          AFS      AFS     ADD S L OP E S HADING AN D KEY
                                            2           PICNIC TABL E (EX)                         6' X 10'
                                                                                                                               NO.        DATE              BY      CHK     REVISION DESCRIPTION
                                            3           T R E E H O US E (EX)                     10' X 12'

                                            4          S O L A R A R R A Y (EX)                   4' X 8'                          CANYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                   SOLUTIONS FOR LAND
                                            5           BRIDGE                                     8' X 12'
                                                                                                                                                            CIVIL ENGINEERING
                                            6           O B S E R V A T I ON DECK                 16' X 16'                                                 LAND PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                            PERMITTING
                                            7           S L O V E N I A B E E HOUSE               10' X 12'

                                        8             W E S T H O M E S T E A D BARN            40' X 80'                                                                                                              PO BOX 982131
                                                      BUILDING PAD                                                                                                                                              PARK CITY, UTAH 84098
                                                                                                                                                             SM



                                            9           S L O V E N I A B E E HOUSE               10' X 12'                                                            VOICE: 435.640.7373            EMAIL:    GUS@CANYONENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.CANYONENG.COM
                                            10           G R E E N HO US E BUILDING P A D         1 6 ' X 16'
                                                                                                                                   SITE IMPROVEMENTS
                                            11             L UMBER MIL L BUILDING PAD              20' X 40'

                                        12              BRIDGE                                     8' X 12'

                                                                                                                                   STRUCTURES
                               NOTES:                                                                                              OVERVIEW
                               1. STRUCTURES 1 - 4 ARE EXISTING. ALL OTHERS ARE                                                    PLAN
                               P R O P O S E D . S T R U C T U R E S 7 - 1 1 A R E PROPOSED
                               A G R I C U L T URA L A C C E S S O R Y STRUCTURES.
                                                                                                                                   FREEZE CREEK FOREST
                               2. UPON COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION, STRUCTURES                               TO   BE                PARCEL ID NO. 1 0 - 2 0 -4 0 0 -0 0 2 -0000
                               L OCATED AND DEPICTED ON AN AS-BUILT PLAN.
                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                   PREPARED FOR:                                            P L S S GRID LOCATION:
                                                                                                                                   RYAN LEICK                                               SEC 20    T1N      R2E
                                                                                                                                   SANDY, UTAH                                              SLB&M
                                                                                                                                                       C A LL RIGHT S RESERVED
                                                                                                                               DES. BY:      AFS

                                                                                                                               CHK. BY:      AFS
                                                                                                                                                        DATE:     NOVEMBER       2024
                                                                                                                                                                    CA NYON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                          JOB        2405             6 OF 6
                Exhibit 10
FCOZ Site Plan Application Narrative – 20250207
Application Date: March 31, 2021
Application #: PER2021-000287
Applicant Name: Ryan Leick
Parcel ID: 10-20-400-002
Current Zone: FR-20
Property Address: 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road, Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
Request: Permitted Use / FCOZ Site Plan



                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION


The owner of A.P.N. 10-20-400-002, which is known as 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road, is requesting
approval of a Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) site plan required by Emigration Canyon Code
19.72.030 for development related to a permitted Agricultural use allowed under 19.02.090 and
19.12.020(B) and accessory structures allowed under 19.12.020(A).


                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


   The application appears to meet the provisions stated in Section 19.72.030 – FCOZ Development
                                       Approval Procedures.

The following uses are permitted in the FR zones subject to compliance with all applicable requirements
set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot dimensions, development standards, and
other regulations:

    A. Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;


                                  SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION


The site is a 40-acre parcel zoned Forest & Recreation, FR-20, and considered a Lot of Record under
Emigration Canyon municipal ordinance 19.72 Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). The city of
Emigration Canyon issued a quasi-judicial determination through the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District appeal hearing officer (SLCORO Entry 14287206, Book, 11517, Page 5974) that the
Subject Parcel is a lot of record because it had frontage on a public road across land in the public domain
at the time of lot creation in 1888. U.C.A. 72-5-302(3)(a) states “Acceptance of a right-of-way for the
construction of a highway over public lands, not reserved for public uses, is presumed if the state or a
political subdivision of the state makes a finding that the highway was constructed and the right-of-way
was accepted prior to October 21, 1976.”

The surrounding properties are also zoned FR-20 and FCOZ. The only existing structures in the
immediate neighborhood are Emigration Improvement District well facilities approximately ½ mile south
of the property.
                                   General Plan Considerations


There are no identified negative impacts to the current General Plan with the approval of this
application.


                                     Neighborhood Response


There is no requirement to notify adjacent property owners for permitted use applications.


                                   Reviewing Agency Conditions


MSD Grading:

SLCO Hydrology:

SLCO Geology:

SLCO Traffic:

SLCO Health Offices:

MSD Planning:

SLCO Surveyor:

Unified Fire Authority:

MSD Building:

SLCO Operations:

Emigration Improvement District:


                                     Location and Topography


The location and topography of the parcel in the Freeze Creek drainage of Emigration Canyon pose
significant challenges. The property is not located within the Salt Lake City Watershed Area as defined in
Salt Lake City Ordinance 17.04.010, but the entire parcel is located within the Ground Water Source
Protection Management Area of Emigration Improvement District’s Upper Freeze Creek wells as defined
in Salt Lake County Ordinance Section 9.25 – Water Source Protection.
                                            Proposed Use


The applicant is proposing development that includes disturbance related to agricultural conservation
projects, accessory structures for a permitted Agricultural use, and grading for an on-site private access
road. The private access road is required to meet EC Code 19.72.080(A) stating, “Motor vehicle access to
a building or development site shall be [within reasonable proximity of a] road (including private access
road), street, alley, or driveway."

Agriculture is currently practiced on the entire 40-acre parcel as permitted under ECMT Code 19.02.090.
The site is managed for perennial organic crops and livestock forage. Site disturbance and development
will be limited to those structures and areas depicted on the FCOZ site plan. Conservation projects will
adhere to US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS)
Conservation Practice Standards (CPS). The applicant will receive Stream Alteration Permits from the
Utah Division of Water Rights as may be required. All accessory structures will meet the requirements of
the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code Class 1 ignition-resistant construction. The necessity of
building permits will be reviewed by the MSD Building department for exemption of agricultural
structures under U.C.A. § 15A-1-204(11)(a). No proposed structure is within 100’ of a property line.

Project phasing will be as follows:

Phase 1 (2025): CPS 584 – Channel Bed Stabilization (Part 1/2)
                CPS 643 – Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities (Part 1/2)
                CPS 391 – Riparian Forest Buffer
                CPS E384A – Biochar production from woody residue
                CPS E612D – Adding fruit producing trees and shrubs to existing plantings
                Bridge (ID NO. 5)
                Slovenian Bee House 1/2 (ID NO. 9)
                Greenhouse Building Pad (ID NO. 10)
Phase 2 (2026): CPS 584 – Channel Bed Stabilization (Part 2/2)
                CPS 643 – Restoration of Rare or Declining Natural Communities (Part 2/2)
                CPS 410 – Grade Stabilization Structures
                CPS 612 – Tree/Shrub Site Preparation
                CPS 612 – Tree/Shrub Site Establishment
                Slovenian Bee House (ID NO. 7)
                Lumber Mill Building Pad (ID NO. 11)
Phase 3 (2027): CPS 575 – Trails and Walkways
                CPS 294 – Firebreak
                Observation Deck (ID NO. 6)
                Bridge (ID NO. 12)
                West Homestead Barn Building Pad (ID NO. 8)

Disturbance from the 1,263 linear feet of access road and 5,205 square feet of structures will depend on
Unified Fire Authority input, but will likely be under the one acre requiring a Storm Water Construction
Permit and Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). A Sediment and Erosion Control Plan
incorporating Best Management Practices will be provided at a later stage in the review process. No
approvals in the form of variances and waivers are required or requested for this application.
        Exhibit 11
E.C.C. 19.12.020 Permitted Uses
19.12.020 Permitted Uses

The following uses are permitted in the FR zones subject to compliance with all applicable
requirements set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot dimensions, development
standards, and other regulations:

    A. Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use;
    B. Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;
    C. Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
    D. Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in Section
       19.04.293;
    E. Household pets, provided the area proposed for animals is not in a watershed area, primary
       water supply recharge area, or drinking water source protection area, as determined by the Salt
       Lake Valley health department or Utah Department of Environmental Quality;
    F. Minor ski resort improvements, provided:
            1. That the privately owned land areas on which such improvements are permitted
               constitute less than ten percent of the total land area utilized for the ski resort that the
               improvements support, and
            2. That at least ninety percent of the land area on which the improvements are developed,
               operated, and maintained is on public lands, and
            3. That the public agency responsible for the management and administration of such
               lands has previously approved a special use permit or similar regulatory authorization,
               and has assumed long-term administrative and enforcement responsibilities for such
               approvals, and
            4. That opportunities for public notice, review, and comment on the proposed
               improvements have been provided through a finalized National Environmental Policy Act
               (NEPA) or other comprehensive public review and comment process, and
            5. That such improvements are either:
                     a. Essential to public safety, or
                    b. Required in association with the reasonable repair or maintenance of existing
                       legally established facilities and improvements, or
                    c. Essential to the continuation or extension of improvements approved under the
                       terms of a governmental land lease or use permit or by final action of the federal
                       or state governmental agency with jurisdiction over the lands on which the
                       improvements are located;


    G. Residential facility for persons with a disability;
    H. Single-family dwellings;
     I. Wireless telecommunication facilities; provided:
            1. The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility, and
            2. The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
             3. A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
                the required site plan, and
             4. All other applicable requirements set            forth   in   Chapter   19.83,   "Wireless
                Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.


(Ord. No. 1753, § III, 8-6-2013; Ord. 1597, § 3, 2006; Ord. 1535, § 4 (part), 2004; Ord. 1473 (part),
2001; Ord. 1454, § 3 (part), 1999; Ord. 1452, § 5, 1999; Ord. 1417, § 5 (part), 1998)

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-06-02 on 6/28/2018
19.04.020 Agriculture

"Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, but not
including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household pets, and not including
any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar
uses.

(Prior code § 22-1-6(2))

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-06-02 on 6/28/2018
           Exhibit 12
E.C.C. 19.02.020 Purpose of Provisions
19.02.020 Purpose Of Provisions

This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
conveniences, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Emigration Canyon
Metro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of congestion in the streets or roads,
securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of land uses
and distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base, securing economy in
governmental expenditures, fostering the Metro Township's agricultural and other industries, and the
protection of both urban and non-urban development.

(Prior code § 22-1-2)

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 18-06-02 on 6/28/2018
                    REPORT TO THE EMIGRATION CITY COUNCIL

AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA APPLICATION; RYAN LEICK

RECOMMENDATION: DENIAL OF THE APPLICATION

On October 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and considered an
application from Ryan Leick to designate his property as an Agricultural Protection Area under
Title 17, Chapter 41 of the Utah Code.

The Planning Commission considered five criteria for the designation of an Agricultural
Protection Area pursuant to UCA §17-41-305 and the record reflects the following findings:

   1. Is the land currently being used for agriculture production?

            a. The land is not currently being used for agriculture production. The land is being
               used for hobby activities including beekeeping and experimental tree sapping.

            b. These activities are not the types of activities we want to protect from
               Emigration Canyon Zoning requirements. The Applicant may proceed with some
               of the activities provided he go through the proper channels.

            c. The current use of the land does not need to be protected by designating the land
               an Agricultural Area. The current uses of the land do not constitute
               “agricultural” use.

            d. There is no evidence that the land was used historically for agricultural industry.

            e. The land is not currently being used for Agritourism regardless of signage posted
               by the Applicant suggesting this activity is taking place.

            f. The application materials indicate other current activities on the property
               including “recreational escape”, enabling quality family time together, camping,
               hiking, and outdoor play. These uses are not consistent with an “Agricultural
               Area”.

           g. The plain language of the statute provides this definition for agricultural
              production, “Production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock and
              livestock products.” There may be some activities that are occurring on the
              property that are very interesting activities and laudable conservation goals, some
              very interesting kind of research and conservation, and perhaps land restoration
              purposes, but those activities are not agricultural production.

            h. This criteria is not satisfied because the activities do not fit within the definition
               of agricultural production.

   2. Is the land zoned for agriculture use?

                                            Page 1 of 4
       a. The land is zoned FR-20.

       b. Agriculture is currently a permitted use in FR zones, and the proposed ordinance
          updates contemplate removing agriculture as a permitted use in Forestry zones
          because agriculture is not a priority of Emigration Canyon’s General Plan.

       c. The definition of Agriculture in the current Emigration Canyon Ordinance
          19.04.020 clearly states: "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising of
          crops, horticulture and gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of
          domestic animals or fowl, except household pets, and not including any
          agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal
          hospitals or similar uses.

       d. The land is not zoned for agriculture use and the Applicant’s proposed uses for
          agricultural industry and business are currently not allowed.

       e. Emigration Canyon Ordinance No. 2025-O-05 adopted on August 26, 2025,
          repealed and replaced Chapter 19.02 General Provisions and Administration
          which removed outdated language in paragraph 19.02.020 pertaining to
          agricultural and other industries.
       f. Planning Commission has been working on an ordinance update project for the
          past over 2 years. Our goal is to ensure that our ordinances are updated to meet
          the requirements outlined in the General Plan and maintaining Emigration Canyon
          as a place that present and future generations can enjoy. Part of those updates
          contemplated removing agriculture as a permitted use in the Forestry Zone
          because agriculture is not a priority use in Emigration Canyon.

3. Is the land viable for agriculture production?

       a. The land is not viable for agricultural production. The steep terrain with sharp
          drop offs and ravines is not conducive to agricultural production.

       b. Steep terrain and lack of access do not support the transport of agricultural
          supplies into and out of the property.

       c. Equipment, machinery, and farm structures to support agriculture production
          cannot be maintained on the subject property without posing the threat of
          wildfire and public health risk related to water contamination.

       d. There is no access to the subject property for firefighting, emergency services,
          agricultural and human waste removal.

       e. There is no history of agricultural production on the property other than the
          grazing of sheep, which is no longer a permitted use.


                                       Page 2 of 4
       f. The Applicant proposes some uses that are currently not allowed and pose a
          serious risk of wildfire ignition (biochar). If the property is designated an
          Agricultural Area, the property owner will be allowed to perform biochar and
          any other agricultural activities desired, regardless of whether it is a permitted
          use in Emigration Canyon or not.

       g. There is no evidence provided that the proposed agricultural business will be
          profitable. In addition, there is evidence of flooding, mudslide and other issues
          with the natural terrain as the natural terrain is disturbed. Those hazards become
          more prevalent and possible.

       h. The proposal to put in orchards is detailed, describing all the different methods,
          but the terrain there is exceedingly steep. It's covered with snow a good portion
          of the year, which limits the growing season. The slopes would need to be
          disturbed to put in orchards.

       i. Viability has several components: terrain is a steep ravine, biological viability or
          soil type, short growing season, and economics. The goals for the property are
          not likely economically viable for agricultural production.

       j. The consequences of the agricultural activities, especially the fire potential, are a
          life-safety concern. The property is landlocked with no means of access for Fire
          Department Apparatus. The Applicant states he has 500-gallons of water onsite
          to fight fires. There is no municipal water supplied by fire hydrant to the site and
          a 500-gallon water tank seems grossly undersized to replace the municipal water
          supply required to protect proposed agricultural buildings.

       k. The Applicant owns 6 water rights for stock watering with a point of diversion of
          Freeze Creek. The use of water for anything other than stock watering would be
          an unauthorized use because there's not a specific water right covering that
          allows for another use as of now.

       l. Economic viability seems impossible due to lack of access. Anything cultivated
          or harvested would be difficult to remove.

4. What is the extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvements?

       a. “Farm Improvements” isn’t defined in the Utah Code. The common
          understanding of farm improvements includes barns and silos for the storage of
          grain or supplies for crops, sheds for various purposes, machinery, roads,
          irrigation, and that which facilitates agricultural production.

       b. There are no existing farm improvements.
       c. There are no existing critical infrastructure improvements on the property.

                                       Page 3 of 4
       d. The small portion of the property that has low slope grading is currently being
          used to store a trailer and all-terrain vehicle(s) (ATV’s) that were placed there by
          helicopter. The steep terrain does not allow the use of these items on the majority
          of the subject property.
       e. There is a picnic bench and wood gazebo structure on the property that are not
          farm improvements but rather amenities to be used for recreation.

       f. There is plastic tubing strung between trees and connected to large plastic
          storage containers that do not constitute farm improvements but rather,
          experimental hobbyist activities.

       g. Photos indicate one beehive on the property which is a hobby activity, not a farm
          improvement.

       h. The improvements and equipment in the Application and established through
          photos and observations do not indicate farm improvements on the property.

5. What are the anticipated trends in agricultural and technological conditions?

       a. There are no anticipated trends in agriculture in Emigration Canyon as a whole
          because agricultural uses have not increased in many years.

       b. The Emigration Canyon General Plan does not list agricultural use as an
          anticipated trend.

       c. The trends related to agriculture in Emigration Canyon are to eliminate it as a
          permitted use in the Forestry Zones.

       d. Agritourism is not an anticipated trend in Emigration Canyon, particularly not on
          the subject property where mass gathering events cannot be adequately protected
          by emergency personnel.

       e. The General Plan does not recognize agriculture as an important use. In fact, if
          there is a trend it points away from agriculture.




                                      Page 4 of 4
From:              Steve Bott
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Application for Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Saturday, September 20, 2025 4:06:02 PM



   You don't often get email from sibott@msn.com. Learn why this is important

Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
Dbaun@msd.utah.gov

Ms. Baun,
I am writing in regards to Ryan Leick's application for an Agricultural Protection Area in
Emigration Canyon, as detailed here:

 File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)
Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1
North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian.
Underlying Zone: FR-20

As a resident of Emigration Oaks subdivision, within Emigration Canyon, and living
immediately downstream of Mr. Leick's property in the Freeze Creek drainage, I strongly
oppose his proposal, for the following reasons. First, his proposal is based on the production
of produce as useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit (41-17-
101(10)). The basis of the proposal is absurd, as the proposed tiny amount of sugar he could
produce from the native berries and mountain maple syrup could not be profitable, In
addition the proposed beekeeping is not viable because of the altitude of the property (about
6500ft) and cold weather. As the property is also within the Emigration Improvement District's
watershed, any livestock, or other commercial activities, would endanger our culinary water
supply. In addition, any commercial activity would pose a serious wildfire risk to our
community. Last but not least, the only reason Mr. Leick is making this thinly veiled absurd
proposal is because he wants to build a road across our private property, without our
permission, to access his otherwise inaccesable property, and to manage residential sewage
within our protected watershed. Mr. Leick has clearly demonstrated his malicious intent by his
previous actions against the township, the water district, and our community association, and
this is more of the same.

In conclusion, as a canyon resident that would be seriously adversly affected by Mr. Leick"s
proposal, I request that it be rejected. Thanks you.
Steven Bott
790 Donner Hill Circle
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
sibott@msn.com
From:              Carolyn Lynch
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Additional public comment
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 2:48:47 PM



   You don't often get email from carolyn.lynch66@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I would like to add to my public comment some photos. These Show a sign posted on the
property implying that the property is already an agricultural protected zone. This sign was
posted prior to the close of the public comment period and determination. Photos of piles of
wood and brush which has been felled and not removed from the property which present an
increased risk of wildfire to the surrounding area.
of the syrup collection container which appears to be empty and is not within the boundaries
of the property.
From:              David Nix
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Dave Sheffield; Paola Nix
Subject:           Agri protected area in Freeze Creek
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 6:52:59 AM



   You don't often get email from david.austin.nix@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Sorry Diana, but this guy is nuts.

There's no road, just a beautiful trial; no water, just a seasonal trickle, and a deep biodiverse
forest that this wing nut wants to bulldoze.

Fire risk, water contamination risk, invasive weed risk, not to mention there is no access.

His only intent with this Agri Pro area is to use it as leverage to put in a road into a roadless
grotto.

Who uses a helicopter to fly in a side by side ORV to a l 1/10th acre parcel of locked private
land? This guy. I saw it the other night.

To quote the Ted Lasso show: "Is this a fucking joke?!!!" Apparently not.

I and our entire community in Emigration Oaks are apposed.

David




—
David Nix
5586 E. Pioneer Fork Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108

david.austin.nix@gmail.com
801-901-0649
From:              Tom Webb
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Agricultural Protection Area - Emigration Canyon file OAM2025-001470
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 3:21:15 PM



   You don't often get email from tom@asciins.com. Learn why this is important
Diana,

As long time residents of Emigration Canyon, we would like to voice opposition to the above application.

There are several reasons we feel the above application would negatively impact the integrity of what
remains of this pristine area.

Primarily the wildlife that reside throughout this area who rely on the vegetation and the snowpack to
provide shelter, food and water for survival.

Secondly, the fragile watershed would certainly be at increased risk with excavation of the land and
removal of native vegetation as well as the travel required for agricultural use.

In addition, it seems probable that the intent would be to erect additional un permitted structures in the
name of agricultural structures.

As residents of Emigration Oaks we collectively respect the above concerns and work to protect the area
for future generations in the form of replacing native plants that have been previously removed, as well
as eco friendly use of chemicals and pesticides, at a huge cost impact.

We have invested a substantial amount of our lives earnings to live in a private community where all
residents have committed to treating the area in a similar fashion and resent individuals purposely
acquiring property with knowledge of the limitations associated, assuming they can cheat the system.

We appreciate your consideration in the matter.

Thank you,


Laura and Tom Webb

952 N. Pioneer Fork Rd.
Salt Lake city, Ut. 84108
 From:              Bruce Nakashima
 To:                Diana Baun
 Subject:           Agricultural Protection Area - Freeze Creek, Emigration Canyon
 Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 11:00:18 AM



    You don't often get email from brucealan.nakashima@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

 Emigration Canyon Planning Commission,

 Regarding the Leick proposal, here is the question that must be answered. Is this a case of
 NIMBY on the part of Emigration Oaks residents or a case of entitlement and colonizer
 mentality of Manifest Destiny on the part of Leick to build his hobby farm?

--[if !supportLists]-->1.     <!--[endif]-->Leick purchased this property knowing that the parcel
  was landlocked. Rather than resolving the access issue prior to his purchase, he has turned to
  bullying, misinformation and alternative truths in an attempt to push through his project.

--[if !supportLists]-->2.     <!--[endif]-->Emigration Oaks is a private PUD where all
  homeowners pay dues to maintain our roads. Residents who own adjacent property
  [Snowberry, Creamer] also pay dues to Emigration Oaks for road maintenance. Leick wants
  free public access to Emigration Oaks roads to build his hobby farm.

--[if !supportLists]-->3.     <!--[endif]-->Leick has commenced construction with no building
  permit or any Salt Lake County oversight. All of Emigration Canyon is within the Foothill &
  Canyons Overlay Zone [FCOZ]. He has even transported equipment and material by
  helicopter. Was proper permitting granted by UDOT or Salt Lake County to fly equipment
  across Emigration Canyon Road?

--[if !supportLists]-->4.     <!--[endif]-->Leick has already installed a solar power system. Was a
  solar application submitted as required by Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District? If
  not, why has the County not required his solar power system to be dismantled?

--[if !supportLists]-->5.     <!--[endif]-->Leick is requesting Agriculture Protection Area for his
  property. Does he really think he can produce and sell maple syrup from the trees he has?
  With a “reasonable expectation of profit” [as defined in the APA statute]? Fifty to one
  hundred gallons of maple sap is required to produce just one gallon of maple syrup. Others
  have noted that Leick has posted signage stating the property is now an APA. There is no need
  for a “Wheeler Farm” on Freeze Creek.

--[if !supportLists]-->6.     <!--[endif]-->Freeze Creek Drainage provides much of the water to
  Emigration Canyon residents. This hobby farm with accompanying livestock will definitely
  impact water quality. Emigration Improvement District will then need to implement upgrades
  to maintain water quality, increasing water costs to all Canyon residents.

--[if !supportLists]-->7.     <!--[endif]-->Leick wants to produce biochar which requires open
  wood burning in a burn box. Supposedly Leick has already been doing open burns. Unified
  Fire Authority does not allow open burning in Salt Lake County. Clearly, Leick feels that he
  does not need to comply with any local laws.

--[if !supportLists]-->8.     <!--[endif]-->Freeze Creek was within the burn area of the Affleck
  Park wildfire in the late 1980’s. This fire burned many acres before it was extinguished. Any
  isolated structures in upper Freeze Creek would pose a wildfire hazard to all Canyon residents.
 A wildfire will move uphill in the Freeze Creek Drainage, toward Red Butte Canyon. Utah
 Forestry, Fire & State Lands is rating wildfire risk in Emigration Canyon as “High” to “Very
 High”.

--[if !supportLists]-->9.     <!--[endif]-->The Red Butte Canyon Protected Reserve is next to the
  upper Freeze Creek Drainage. The US Forest Service is responsible for this restricted access
  Canyon for scientific research and education. The Leick hobby farm would potentially disturb
  this pristine research area.

 I request that you consider the above points and deny the Leick request for an Agricultural
 Protection Area.

 Thank you,

 Bruce Nakashima
 6114 Last Camp Circle
 Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:              James A. McLaughlin
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Agricultural Protection Area application by Ryan Leich
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 12:38:55 PM



   You don't often get email from jamesamcl@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

           Dear Ms. Baun,

       Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Agricultural Protection Area
application by Ryan Leich. My comment will be brief.

        This application is nothing more than a cynical, lawyerly maneuver to circumvent
limitations on the development of the remote, mostly-pristine parcel Mr. Leich
purchased in Freeze Creek Canyon. He paid very little for the parcel because of its
remoteness and inaccessibility, and now he wants to engage in inappropriate and
damaging uses and development there.

       To do what he wants, he needs to build a road through others’ land. The owners of
the land on which the destructive road-building would occur have denied him
permission for a number of very good reasons having to do with not just their own
interests but the interests of the public more broadly.

       To facilitate Mr. Leich’s frankly mad plans on his remote property would cause
substantial harm to the public in terms of increased wildfire danger and erosion as well
as significant damage to water quality, scenic values, and wildlife habitat. I implore the
decision-makers to reject the application.

           Thanks very much,
           James A. McLaughlin

This e-mail may contain confidential or privileged information.
From:              Tricia Petzold
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Agricultural Protection Area as proposed by Ryan Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:43:31 PM



   You don't often get email from tpetzold@icloud.com. Learn why this is important

﻿ To: Diana Baum, City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

From: Tricia Petzold, 525 N. Pioneer Fork Road, SLC, UT 84108

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this proposal.

I am against the proposal to allow an Agricultural Protection Area as proposed by Ryan Leick
for many reasons, but the most important to me are the following:

The risk of fire danger in the canyon would increase during the development and maintenance
of the proposed project.

The use of water to grow the berry crops he describes would be large, and likely out of
proportion to use by other resident in Emigration Canyon.

The development of roads to access the area would have a negative impact on current hiking
trails and all of Emigration Oaks as he would need to cut through and stage construction on
their private roads.

The proposed goal of having a destination agritourism location would mean having visitors
travel through what are now private roads, nullifying that designation, and significantly
devaluing adjacent properties.

I appreciate your consideration.

Sincerely,
Tricia Petzold
801-599-2950
From:               TODD C GREY
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Agricultural protection zone application
Date:               Monday, September 22, 2025 9:55:09 AM




[You don't often get email from toddcgrey@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

From what I have seen, an agricultural protection zone can’t be established where no agricultural activity already
exists. Does this proposal serve any real purpose other than trying to skirt already existing regulations prohibiting
Mr. Leick from running a road to his locked parcel or using potential litigation to force capitulation by those who
oppose his plan? Sent from my iPad
From:           Ryan Leick
To:             Diana Baun
Subject:        Agriculture Protection Area (APA) for Parcel 10-20-400-002
Date:           Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:03:55 AM
Attachments:    APA_Public_Comment_Leick - 20250925.pdf


Hi Diana,

I have attached my public comment in response to the notice of public hearing regarding the
Agricultural Protection Area (APA) application for Parcel 10-20-400-002 (OAM2025-
001470). I will also upload the attached comment to supplement the application in MSD's
CityWorks portal.

Thanks,

   -Ryan
From:               Howard Parker
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Agriculture protection area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 11:14:15 AM




[You don't often get email from hnparker@xmission.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Ms. Baum,
I am writing to register my objection to Mr. Ryan Lick’s petition to create an agricultural protection area in the
Freeze Creek area of Emigration canyon. There would appear to be several adverse consequences to granting this
request. Turning a relative pristine wilderness area into a farm would be ecologically disruptive—disturbing existing
foraging a movement patterns of wildlife, introducing non-native species, introducing the problem of waste
management of domestic livestock, potentially introducing the very serious problem of pesticide introduction,
compromising local water supplies, and creating the problem of livestock-predator interaction. At a time when the
whole world is waking up to the necessity of protecting existing ecosystems, they is a regressive action.
In addition, it strikes me a as a seriously misbegotten, Quixotic idea. To the best of my knowledge there is no
farming going on anywhere in any of the Wasatch Front canyons—for good reason; the soil is poor, water is scarce,
the terrain is not particularly conducive to farming and the growing season is very short. This strikes me as a vanity
project, with no public benefit and the potential for serious harm to wildlife habitat, biodiversity and water quality.
Thank you for soliciting comments.
Sincerely
Howard B. Parker
5537 Pioneer Fork Road
From:              G Rogers
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Agriculture Zone in Freeze Creek Drainage
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 8:42:12 AM



   You don't often get email from ggrslc@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Upon reading this proposal I would like to agree with those finding it ridiculous. I sincerely
hope those deciding the fate of this proposal see it for what it is. Thanks, Gray Rogers
I live in Emigration Oaks and recreate often in Freeze Canyon. I urge the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission and
Council to dismiss this Application for an APA.

The Application is a sham, a fraud, and a pretext in his quest to obtain what he has planned since he purchased the parcel:
a road linking a planned dwelling on the parcel to the road system in Emigration Canyon.

The Legislature, in enacting Chapter 41 of Title 17 in the Utah Code, provided an option for political subdivisions, such as
Emigration Canyon, to establish protection areas for agriculture, industry, or mining. The legislation does not require
creation of an APA at the request of an applicant, nor does it provide much guidance regarding what issues need to be
considered: the decision rests entirely with the discretion of the Emigration Canyon city council.

Indeed, this Application stands on its head the purpose of an APA: the APA statute was enacted to protect farmers from
complaints of residents who had “moved to the nuisance”--those in new homes near existing farms. In this case, the new
nuisance is proposed near existing homes.

The Applicant's present or planned activities are not permitted under Emigration Canyon's zoning ordinance.

The Applicant has no ability to engage in viable commercial agriculture with a reasonable expectation of a profit--as the
APA statute requires.

Planned activities increase the risk of wildfire.

I. The activities (present and planned) violate Emigration Canyon's Zoning Code

a. code violation

The present,and planned, agricultural activities on the parcel are not permitted by the Emigration Canyon zoning
ordinance. As the Application states, the Emigration Canyon FR-20 ordinance (ECC 19.12.020) includes Agriculture as a
permitted use. However, “Agriculture” as defined in ECC 19.04.020 does not include keeping of livestock. And the Applicant
admits that his present use includes livestock foraging (Exhibits p.134). His plans also include keeping fowl, swine, goats,
and kine on the parcel (Exhibits, p.92). None of this animal husbandry is permitted pursuant to the present zoning
ordinance and the Application provides no discussion regarding how his present and planned “keeping or raising domestic
animals or fowl”comports with the ordinance.

b. Prior Nonconforming Use

Nor are his beekeeping activities a prior nonconforming use. The FR-20 ordinance was adopted from the previous Salt Lake
County code by Ordinance 18-06-02 in June 2018--well before the Applicant purchased the parcel in 2020.

Although the Application claims that the parcel was historically used for sheep grazing (an agricultural use), the parcel has
not been used for sheep grazing (or any other agricultural use) for many decades. Thus, any agricultural use has been
abandoned and any present or future activities at the site must conform to present ordinances.

         ECC 19.88.080 - Nonconforming use of land.
         The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued provided that
         no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
         property, and provided that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed
         for a period of one year or more, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provision of this
         title. Ordinance 18-06-02, June 28, 2018. (emphasis supplied)

II. The Application does not demonstrate any possibility of commercial success
a. Requirement for approval of an APA

The activities described in the Proposal do not meet the requirements of the Utah statute regarding APAs.

Utah Code allows creation of an APA only if agricultural production is for commercial purposes and the land is devoted to
the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit. UCA 17-41-101.

b. Lack of reasonable expectation of profit

The Proposal does not describe any profitable commercial production of agricultural products. It omits information
regarding expected costs or revenues from the production and sale of honey, beeswax, maple syrup, and other products to
be produced on the parcel. This is not a commercial venture. Rather, it is a proposed hobby farm.

The parcel is landlocked, with no access to a road for the contemplated construction of infrastructure and activities
following construction. Materials and equipment for the contemplated construction will need to be transported, as was
the mechanical equipment presently on the parcel, via helicopter. Realizing that he has no access to the parcel, the
Applicant recently initiated legal action against Emigration Canyon and nearby landowners to allow construction of an
access road to the parcel.

The extensive construction of structures contemplated by the Proposal includes 4256 square feet of building pads--
presumably concrete. The Applicant does not have road access to the site to bring in this concrete and other building
materials. These structures can not be constructed and the endeavor have a "reasonable expectation of profit," especially
if labor and materiel need to be ferried in and out via helicopter.

1. Maple syrup production

Anyone walking the trail through the parcel can observe the Applicant's apparatus for collection of bigtooth maple sap.
The Application claims (Exhibit 7, p. 65 ff.) collection of 137.5 gallons of bigtooth maple sap from 25 trees in early 2025,
using the (presumably free) labor of USU students, and sold at retail for hard cider. The Application omits the quantity of
maple syrup produced, but 137 gallons of sap, after energy-intensive boiling or other treatment to remove most of its
water, might produce as much as 2-4 gallons of maple syrup. (https://extension.usu.edu/forestry/publications/utah-forest-
newsletter/maple-tapping)

According to Utah State University extension service, Utah maple tree trunks need to be 10 to 20 inches in diameter in
order to support tapping for syrup and 98% of the water must be evaporated to make syrup.

        https://extension.usu.edu/forestry/publications/utah-forest-facts/045-maple-tapping-utah;
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HhOhwEoCST4

The Application includes no estimate of the number of maple trees with trunk diameters of 10" or greater on the parcel
and how much sap he can expect to retrieve from each tree each year at what cost to produce how much revenue.

The Application does not mention any revenues actually received from sale of this maple syrup. It includes no business
plan, or any estimate of future revenues, fixed costs of required infrastructure, or variable costs of production (e.g.,
processing, packaging, labeling, storage, labor, promotion, distribution, taxes). Nor does he share the costs of tapping
trees, or of sterilizing tubing and collection vessels to prevent growth of yeasts and molds. Nor has the Applicant shared
revenues and expenses to date. Indeed, the Application admits that all the present and contemplated agricultural
production is experimental. (Exhibits p. 70) The Emigration Canyon council is left to its own common sense to make a
judgment in the absence of this data. Clearly, these maple sap operations are not commercially viable with a reasonable
expectation of a profit.


2.      Beekeeping

The Applicant claims to keep "small scale" seasonal beehives to support pollination services and honey products. He
mentions no revenue from sales of honey or wax. While honey bees work without wages, they require some care, and
planned seasonal relocation of hives must entail some cost. Since there is no road access to the parcel, seasonal location
must be via helicopter. As for "pollination services" from the bees, there are no commercial orchards or other agricultural
production proximal to the parcel that would benefit from such services and from which the Applicant could obtain more
revenue. The Applicant leaves Emigration Canyon Council in the dark to make its own conclusions as to whether his apiary
can be profitable. Besides violating the Emigration Canyon zoning code (as mentioned above), this beekeeping has no
reasonable possibility of being profitable--at present or in the future.

3.       Native fruits

Again, the Application includes no data concerning how much (gallons? hands full?) native fruit has been foraged from the
parcel, how much time was required for this harvest, or revenues obtained. Many residents of Emigration Canyon forage
for berries in season. Getting a few berries or a hand full can provide an excuse to rest while on a hike. A greater quantity
requires some effort. The Application doesn't suggest that the berry bushes will be planted and cultivated such that
harvesting berries in commercial quantities will be possible. Once again, Emigration Canyon Council is left to its own
judgment as to whether this activity is commercially viable with a reasonable expectation of a profit.

4.       Other fruits

The Application mentions (p.67) "experiments" with exotic fruits not native to the Wasatch (persimmons, paw paw,
medlar, kiwi, etc). No data is included regarding the results of these experiments or any expected revenues if these
experiments were successful. In the absence of such data, we can assume that the experiments did not point the way to
commercial success.

5. Other agricultural activities

Exhibit 8 (pp. 73-123) describes a bucolic "agroforestry," a supposed low-labor method of agricultural production in a
forest, but includes little information specific to success elsewhere or how this agricultural practice would be executed in
Freeze Canyon. According to this exhibit, agroforestry allows leaving "energy-intensive maintenance (seeding, planting,
weeding, fertilizing, watering) to plant, insect, and animal allies [and] frees up time for additional harvesting, processing,
and resting." (Exhibits p.81) In other words, all the successful farmer needs to do is harvest, process, and rest--while
plants, insects, and animals do all the farm work. The Application fails to specify the tasks that will be performed by these
plant, insect, and animal "allies," or how they will be trained not to compete with desirable plants for scarce resources or
consume the potential harvest. And the desirable plants won't produce as well in the forest as in the field: "Integrating a
food-bearing plant into a polyculture may decrease its food yield due to competition with other plants..."

Continuing, "[p]rofit is obviously important but can be difficult to estimate due to many factors..."

The Application does not contemplate planting immediately, and reveals that "[v]igorous and persistent weeds exist on the
site, so patiently taking multiple years to eliminate the weeds prior to planting will be necessary... ." Anyone who has
removed weeds from ground in Emigration Canyon has learned that desirable plants must be planted immediately, or
weeds will return.

This nonsense strains the credulity of anyone who has ever worked a farm. Unless the Applicant can provide examples of
this Edenic farming practice being commercially viable in a location with growing conditions similar to those in the
Wasatch, Emigration Canyon should dismiss the Application.

Perhaps jarring to the reader after this promise of restful contemplation of free labor from plants, insects, and animals, the
agroforestry farmer must anticipate using brush hogs, tractors, winches, chain saws and other tools (p.105) and frequent
mowing and pruning (p.114). How is the cost of these tools considered when estimating the profits from this enterprise?

The Proposal contemplates using poultry, pigs, goats, and cattle to "prepare the land for permanent plantings." (pp.92,
105) These animals are to graze in movable pens, "virtual" fences, or electric mesh. Goats, especially, are notorious escape
artists. The Application does not mention the need to (or cost of) protecting these domestic animals from predation by the
native animals onsite or nearby (a task of which last century's sheep herders in Emigration Canyon were keenly aware).
Does he contemplate using firearms? And none of these activities are permitted in a Forest and Recreation zone.
Downstream users of water from Freeze Creek—including users of Emigration Creek--can expect increased pollution from
all these practices at the water's source. Setting aside the incompatibility with the zoning code, how much will these
animals cost and what is their effect on the Applicant's bottom line?

The Applicant disclaims any goal of making a profit from commercial agriculture: "The goal of Freeze Creek Forest is to
create a living food forest garden for the public to enjoy and understand the role of silviculture in watershed conservation
and carbon sequestration while advancing high-altitude, semi-arid agroforestry practices." p.83

Nevertheless, managing the forest will be a lot of work: "Achieving the many goals of an edible agroforestry system
requires a high input of energy. This energy can come from our labor and a declining supply of fossil fuels or we can place a
majority of the burden onto Mother Nature's strong shoulders." p.84

Nowhere does the proposal address how this needed energy will be outsourced to Mother Nature. However, the proposal
discusses many activities that can't be so outsourced, e.g., tree planting, regular thinning and pruning of trees, weed
suppression, mechanically severing tree roots to decrease competition with annual crops, etc. (p.100)

This concept of a plan often contradicts itself. Page 99 suggests white clover as a ground cover, while page 88 states that
voles prefer to eat white clover when they're not eating the bark of fruit trees, so white clover won't be planted.

As another example of neglecting the effort required to successfully farm, the Application (p.110) proposes inoculating
downed tree trunks with mushrooms, but admits that "Once fruiting begins, constant vigilance and daily harvest may be
necessary to ensure freedom from rodent damage." Just how does the Applicant propose 24-hour, 7-day constant vigilance
to prevent rodent damage to his fungus crop?


III. The Application is a mere pretext for construction of a recreational cabin

p.22    Applicant enjoys the property as recreation destination enabling family time together, and not as a commercial
enterprise. This conflicts with statements regarding present agricultural production elsewhere in the Application. In
other words, this is—-at best—-a hobby farm.

The site plan attached as Exhibit 9 reveals the true purpose of this sham Application: a pretended agricultural operation
that is a mask for a planned recreational dwelling. The costs of driveway construction alone would doom any possibility of
a profit from beekeeping, sap collection, or other pursuits.

The site plan includes extensive structures and a 12-foot-wide gravel driveway (wider, with shoulders), but the Application
doesn't mention the costs of these improvements, nor their effect on the profitability of this supposed commercial
agriculture venture.

The driveway extends over 1200 feet from the southern boundary of the property and ends at an "Oak Plateau" near the
property's western boundary. The driveway has a slope greater than 18% for much of its length. Likely, this steep
slopealone dooms any FCOZ approval.

A couple of the planned structures, a bee house and a 40' X 80' "west homestead barn" are located near the terminus of
this driveway. However, a "conceptual" septic field is also located on this Oak Plateau. The proposal doesn't disclose a
reason that a septic field is required for either a barn or a bee house. However, as every Emigration Canyon resident
knows, a septic field is required for a dwelling.

The Application nowhere mentions any connection between the driveway and any public highway. Perhaps this is because
the Applicant has been told, repeatedly for several years, that he will not receive permission to access his property from
land owned by Emigration Oaks. Nor has Salt Lake City, the owner of property abutting the parcel's southern boundary,
acceded to the Applicant's request to cross its land.

IV. The Application presents an increased risk of wildfire.
The Parcel lies within an area prone to wildfire, and any fire that ignites onsite would immediately threaten homes
throughout Emigration Canyon. For example, the “Affleck Park” wildfire in 1988 burned about 90% of Freeze Canyon.
Construction and maintenance activities at the site pose a substantial risk of igniting a wildfire. The Proposal contemplates
the practice of making “biochar” to return the carbon contained in unwanted wood to the soil. Biochar production consists
of igniting woody material in an atmosphere with limited oxygen, thus producing a product similar to charcoal.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biochar Any escape from this apparatus would be virtually certain to start a fire in the
surrounding forest, and the remote location of the site would delay suppression efforts. The risk is too great for any
supposed reward from this method of clearing downed logs and other forest debris from the site. The Applicant has
already demonstrated a cavalier attitude towards wildfire safety by using an open 55-gallon drum as a “burn barrel” on the
property for some of his unwanted wood.

For any of the above reasons, and certainly for all of them together, the Planning Commission should recommend that the
Emigration Canyon Council deny the Application.
From:              Lisa FitzGerald
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           APA application Emigration Canyon
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 3:42:58 PM



   You don't often get email from lmfitzg@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


An Agricultural Protection Area (APA) in the Freeze Creek area of Emigration Canyon
seems inappropriate in a protected watershed. An APA would allow R. Leick to build
structures and access roads that are not in line with uses and ownership of
surrounding public lands owned by Salt Lake City, EID and the United States of
America. There are no imaginable agricultural uses of this land. An APA designation
would allow the property owner to pursue activities that are detrimental to local
residents and all users of the Freeze Creek trail.

This application should be denied.

File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

Lisa FitzGerald
From:              Rich Caramadre
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           APA application on property at 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 3:53:35 PM



   You don't often get email from rich.caramadre@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I would like to voice my opposition to the APA application on property at 1475 N. Pinecrest
Canyon Road. This designation is not appropriate for a protected watershed, wildlife area and
hiking trail.
  Rich
From:              Neli Ulrich
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Bruce Edgar; Nico Edgar
Subject:           APA designation
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 8:21:24 PM



   You don't often get email from neli.ulrich3110@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,
I have been made aware of the following application for APA designation:

File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon
Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres) Legal Description: The southeast
quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian. Underlying Zone: FR-20  

I would like to express my strongest possible opposition to this proposed use. The area in
question is a unique, remote environment, wildlife refuge, and watershed, that requires
protection, not exploitation through agricultural use for financial gain.

I am especially concerned about the watershed, that sustains critical wildlife in Emigration
Canyon (moose, deer, bobcat, porcupine, elk, and much more), as well as our wells in the area.
There is absolutely no reason to declare this area as an agricultural area, no benefit and major
risk. In addition, buildings do not belong in this unique wildlife area and would pose even
greater environmental risks, wildfire risks, and affect the watershed.

Thank you for recording this concern.

Sincerely,
Neli Ulrich
363 N Pioneer Ridge Rd
SLC 84108
Ryan Leick is sighting historical information to support his claims but may be misrepresenting all
or part of his facts. He has not used a very neighborly approach to gain access to the beautiful
area we call Emigration Canyon, that the Native people called Iee-Ne-Ia-Weah,1 possibly
meaning “people of the setting sun”, long before white imperialists came to the area.

At least as far back as 2021, before the newest approach, application for APA, Dr. Leick has
been told ‘NO’ by a succession of land owners and overseeing governmental bodies and yet he
continues to try to bluff and bully his way to get what he wants. He has no approval for use of
existing private roads and no basis for suggesting the private roads should be made public.
Despite claims in his application, he does not have a frontage on any road and so does not have
a “lot of record”. He does not currently have approval for agricultural activity and so has no
basis to request an Agricultural Protection Area (APA).

Approval of an APA would keep city, towns or county from enacted or enforcing laws to restrict
any activity the landowner chooses. There can be no change in zoning unless the landowner
approves. An APA provides a defense against legal claims by abutting property owners and
prevents claims of nuisance. Dr. Leick is trying to keep us from complaining before he has
anything more than helicopter traffic for us to complain about. It seems that he has
helicoptered in an ATV and other equipment for his improvement processes before receiving
any approval for those processes.

He claims to need an APA to protect ongoing agricultural activity and preserve viability of
agriculture. This assumes there is already agricultural activity approved in the area. There is no
such approval as the land in question is currently not zoned for agriculture. He is currently
despoiling the native area and possibly endangering our fragile watershed in Emigration
Canyon.


Sugar production from maple syrup is one of the suggested activities in Dr. Leick’s proposal.
There are not enough sugar maples in the whole of the canyon to produce a gallon of maple
syrup. If in fact Dr Leick is planting maple trees for harvesting sap, he is breaking the law as his
landlocked property is zoned for “Forestry and Recreation” not agriculture.

He sites historical use including sheep grazing. Sheep grazing gutted the vegetation and fouled
the creek. If Dr. Leick studied his history more carefully he might recognize that while this
canyon has been many things over the past thousand years or so, nothing lasts forever,
certainly not usage. The area used to be popular for beaver hunters, but thankfully, not being
done anymore. The first permanent non-native residents of the canyon built a toll road, and
perhaps that could be a useful addition to the access Dr. Leick wishes.

Dr. Leick uses legalese and subterfuge to try and worm into the area and do something as yet
not well defined in any of his plans. The plans are a hodge-podge of ideas that have no

1
    The History of Emigration Canyon, Gateway to Salt Lake Valley, J. Carlstrom, C. Furse
coherence and don’t form any sort of logical agricultural process. There is a bit of apiary talk,
and by the way there must be more than a couple of hives to be called an apiary. He talks about

This application is made in good faith to protect on going agricultural activity. By Utah Code
"Agriculture production means production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock, and
livestock products.” Is Dr. Leick currently growing and selling agricultural products? If not, he
again has no basis for an APA. If his is, he is in violation of zoning restrictions.

This Application for Agricultural Protection Area, is merely the latest attempt by Dr. Leick to
sidestep law, history, and ruin our beautiful landscape, while trying to wear down resistance
and build a case for his poorly conceived use of 40 acres of landlocked, forest. This should not
be approved under any circumstances.
From:             Marci Dowdall
To:               Diana Baun
Subject:          APA Freeze Creek
Date:             Wednesday, September 24, 2025 5:57:30 PM



   You don't often get email from mmddow@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

As 30-year residents of Emigration Oaks, we are adamantly opposed to this proposal. There
are so many glaring problems. For example, the possible contamination of Freeze Creek, the
water table impact for our HOA reservoirs, the wildlife corridor disruption, the environmental
impact of a commercial enterprise in a wildness area. This is not the kind of enterprise needed
in a mountain neighborhood.
Please reject this ridiculous self serving plan!

Thank you,
Dr. Mike and Marci Dowdall
381 N Middle Oak Lane
Emigration Oaks
From:              Peter Schaefer
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           APA in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 1:29:44 PM



   You don't often get email from pjschae@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
We are opposed to the creation of an APA in the Freeze creek drainage. As a resident of Emigration
Oaks we feel this designation would adversely impact our private roads, well water, and the wilderness
that we frequent in the Freeze Creek drainage.
Regards,
Peter Schaefer
432 N Old Oak Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
25SEPT2025

To Whom It May Concern:

We are writing to oppose the designation of an Agricultural Protection Area for:
File: OAM2025-001470

Applicant: Ryan Leick

Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.

Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1 North,

Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian.

Underlying Zone: FR-20



We have been continuous, full-time residents of Emigration Canyon since 2007 and own
property there. Our principal concern is that the protection that this area would provide will
materially impact the safety and health of Emigration Canyon and its residents by
negatively impacting the watershed and ﬁre safety of the canyon. As agricultural property
owners in another state, we also understand well the various uses that agricultural property
can take. These concerns are magniﬁed in our situation where potential changes under the
banner of “agricultural use” would be occurring in a vital watershed.

We are also concerned about the impact on local wildlife with additional development and
disruption taking place in an area that enjoys an abundance of animals who already are
dealing with proximity to development and hunting.

Please deny this request.



Alan and Paige Stotts

746 N Freeze Creek Circle

Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
From:                   Jaymison Petersen
To:                     Diana Baun
Subject:                APA proposal 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Date:                   Wednesday, September 24, 2025 4:48:16 PM



    You don't often get email from jaymisonp@mac.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Ms. Baun,

I am writing to oppose the creation of an Agricultural Protection Area at 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. After reading through the
provided documents, I still have questions that I hope will be answered at the public hearing. As of today, I have many concerns
pertaining to the project.
Firstly, I read that Mr Leick has applied for use of the Upper Freeze Creek well, along with the ability to alter the creek stream to divert
for watering, and to catch and use rain water for irrigation for the existing trees and future trees and plants/vegetables he intends to plant.
This greatly worries me because we are regularly advised to reduce our water use just about every summer because the wells are
dangerously low. This potentially new strain on water usage in the canyon in conjunction with the fact that they are continually building
not only in our neighborhood, but throughout the canyon will only cause more water scarcity for everyone involved.
The documents state that Mr Leick intends to cut down the trees on his land to use them as lumber for the construction of a storage
garage, storage sheds for housing supplies, housing for cleaning and packing produce harvested from his crops, etc. In order to achieve
this, he intends to implement a personal sawmill to produce the lumber. This entire process is concerning; fire hazard from the equipment,
medical hazard, water pollution, noise pollution. Additionally, the increased number of people that will be utilizing our private roads and
trails, along with the traffic that will increase due to the requirement of supplies and employees needed for construction and the need for
waste removal from his property down our trails and out of the neighborhood.
Another issue I have is with his intent for Agritourism and the commercial production of sugar/syrup and produce. Attracting visitors to
his property to help in the production of his commercial enterprise in order for him to profit from it in and of itself is not objectionable to
me. I think the educational experience provided by agritourism is great, but I do not want visitors driving, walking and hiking on our
privately maintained trails & roads. Additionally, I highly object to access road construction to his property via the Freeze Creek trail. I
know this entire trail very well - I hike it every day with my dog and occasionally with neighborhood friends and family. It is a very steep
and narrow trail at times - I cannot fathom how it could ever be accessible to vehicles.
The bottom line, from his own words, Mr Leick bought a landlocked property for the purpose of recreational enjoyment for his family
and over the few years that he has owned the property, he has decided to try and make it profitable. The most convenient way for him to
access his property is through the private roads and trails of Emigration Oaks. He has disregarded the “No Trespassing” signs and the
wishes of the residents of this community and now he is trying to ruin a community that has been here for over 40 years. As a resident of
nearly 20 years in this canyon, I highly object to the approval of this property.

Thank you for your time and consideration,
Jaymison Petersen

Jaymison Petersen
+1 801-898-5517
jaymisonp@mac.com
September 25, 2025



SUBJECT: PUBLIC COMMENT IN SUPPORT OF DESIGNATING PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA

Dear Planning Commissioners:

I write in support of my application to designate an Agriculture Protection Area (APA) for Parcel
10-20-400-002. The record demonstrates 1) current agricultural production, 2) compliance with
land use zoning, 3) support for continued viable production, 4) the extent and nature of existing
and proposed farm improvements, as well as 5) practical trends and technologies to protect public
health and safety.

In addition to the evidence of agricultural production included in the APA application, I have since
harvested native fruits for use by a local cider house. I have attached an invoice and redacted check
from a recent sale as Attachment A. I have also posted Utah’s agritourism signage with the statutory
required language. A photo of my posted signage is included as Attachment B.

Emigration Canyon Code 19.12.020(B) allows for Agriculture as a permitted use in the FR zone.
While Emigration Canyon removed the agricultural exemption for use permits on August 26, 2025
with Ordinance 2025-O-05, agriculture remains a permitted use for this parcel. Further, a vested
application for an agricultural use permit has been under review by Emigration Canyon since March
16, 2021.

Continued agricultural viability is supported by United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)
Natural Conservation Resource Services (NRCS) Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)
and Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) grants funded through 2028. The stewardship
practices enhance soil, water, and habitat that directly reinforce continued agricultural production.

A site plan included in the application depicts the limits of disturbance for NRCS practices, some of
which are already being implemented. Further, a Utah DNR Forest Stewardship Plan outlines how
these federally funded farm improvements protect resources and sustain production. Additional
infrastructure is proposed to enhance the viability of agricultural production on the site.

The operation applies agricultural trends in conservation and agroforestry technologies, aligning
with statewide goals for diversified, water-wise production and stewardship, while maintaining
Emigration Canyon’s open-space character. I have also submitted best management practices
(BMPs) to protect the Drinking Water Source Protection area the site is located within.

I respectfully urge the Council to approve the APA or, if it seeks further assurance, to recommend
inclusion of the DWSP and stewardship BMPs as conditions rather than deny the proposal.

Respectfully,



Ryan Leick
Owner of Parcel 10-20-400-002
   Attachment 1
Invoice and Redacted Check
Freeze Creek Forest                                                                      INVOICE
9716 S Sitzmark Drive
Sandy, UT 84092                                                                DATE            09/15/2025
Phone: 801.999.8748                                                        Customer             Scion Cider
                                                                               Client          Rio Connelly
                                                                            Invoice #              00110
                                                                           Due Date            10/15/2025
BILL TO
Scion Cider
Attn: Rio Connelly
916 S Jefferson Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84101


              DESCRIPTION                       DATE       QUANTITY        RATE           SUBTOTAL       TOTAL
Fresh Fruit                                                                                 $1,217.00     $1,217.00
  Elderberry                                   9/15/2025            47.8   $15.00             $717.00
  Chokecherry                                  9/15/2025            15.0   $25.00             $375.00




                          08
  Oregon Grape                                 9/15/2025             5.0   $25.00             $125.00
                    ck D I
                       12
                  he AP


  TOTAL                                                      67.8             $21.67        $1,217.00    $1,217.00
             C



OTHER COMMENTS
1. Total payment due in 30 days from date of invoice.                                   GRAND TOTAL:     $1,217.00
2. Please include the invoice number on your payment.
Attachment 2
Agritourism Signage
From:              Edwin C. Barnes
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Paul Brown; Tim Pack
Subject:           Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 4:43:52 PM
Attachments:       image001.png
                   Letter to Emigration Canyon City Council 9.24.25[2].pdf



   You don't often get email from ecb@clydesnow.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,

The Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association has asked me to submit the attached letter
listing its objections to the Application for Agricultural Protection Area Designation, File
OAM2025-001470, Parcel 10-20-400-002, filed by Ryan Leick. This opposition letter is directed
to you as the City Recorder, as instructed in the public notice, for consideration by the
Emigration Canyon Planning Commission and thereafter by the City Council.

Please let me know if you have questions or if we can be of further assistance in explaining our
client’s many objections to the Application.

   Ted
                               201 South Main Street, Suite 2200
                               Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
   Edwin C.                    Direct: 801-433-2405
   Barnes                      Mobile: 801-573-7207
   Of Counsel                  ecb@clydesnow.com
   ClydeSnow                   www.clydesnow.com    
                                                                         Edwin C. Barnes
                                                                        ecb@clydesnow.com




                                    September 24, 2025


Emigration Canyon City Council
c/o Diana Baun, City Recorder
PO Box 14770
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-7700

Via email: dbaun@msd.utah.gov

       Re: File OAM2025-001470 Proposal to Create an Agricultural Protection Area
       Covering Parcel 10-20-400-002
Dear Council Members,
The Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, Inc. (EOPOA) strenuously objects to
the August 11, 2025, Application filed by Ryan Leick who requests designation of his
land in Freeze Creek as a protected Agricultural Protection Area (APA), and submits
these comments in opposition to the Application. EOPOA members occupy
approximately 200 homes adjacent to the Freeze Creek drainage, downslope from the Mr.
Leick’s landlocked parcel (the Property) who, with others in Emigration Canyon, would
be adversely impacted by Mr. Leick’s plans.
The Application is a glossy but superficial presentation that is based in generalities,
contradictions, and descriptions of what appear to be admissions of unlawful conduct.
The Application is flawed and defective in numerous areas, each of which looked at
singly is a ground to deny the Application but together mandate its rejection by the
Emigration Canyon City Council. The Property is simply not appropriate for APA
protection as a matter of law, policy, or practicality as detailed below.
              AGRICULTURAL AREA PROTECTION STANDARDS
An Agricultural Protection Area may be created by the legislative body of a city to
protect lands historically “devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a
reasonable expectation of profit”. Utah Code Section 17-41-101(10). It applies only to
commercial ventures, not family or hobby farms. Once approved, the lands in the APA
are then insulated against later zoning changes, land use designations, nuisance or other
regulations that might limit continuation of the historic agricultural activities, including a
limitation on the exercise of the power of eminent domain. Utah Code Sections 17-41-
402, -403, -405. In evaluating an APA proposal, the legislative body must consider


                ONE UTAH CENTER • 201 SOUTH MAIN STREET, SUITE 2200
                 SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84111-2216 •TEL & FAX (801) 322-2516
whether the land is currently being used for historic agricultural use, whether it is zoned
for such use, whether the land is viable for agricultural production, and the nature and
extent of existing and proposed farm improvements. Utah Code Section 17-41-305. The
Application does not meet these requirements.
The only evidence of prior agricultural use presented by Mr. Leick is an affidavit stating
that the Property was historically used for the summer grazing of sheep. Application,
Exhibit 6. He candidly admits, however, that “The property has had no other use since
that time” and that sheep grazing is no longer a permitted use. Application, p. 1; Exhibit
3, p.4. Any argument for entitlement to continue the nonconforming use of grazing
lapsed many years ago by non-use and cannot now be extended or expanded. Emigration
Canyon Code (ECC) 19.88.080. Though he admits that grazing is not a permitted use,
Mr. Leick contradicts himself by stating that the property is currently used for “livestock
forage”. Application, Exhibit 10 “Proposed Use”. And, though clearly not permitted by
current zoning, he proposes to use pigs, goats, sheep, cattle, guinea fowl, turkeys, quail,
and geese in furtherance of his operations. Application, Exhibit 8, p. 19.
Having admitted that agricultural use of the Property ceased years ago and was of a type
that is no longer permitted, Mr. Leick obviously hopes that the City Council will ignore
the fact that his recent activities are not historic, and are the result, as he himself
describes them, of activities that are unlawful, including development and other activities
that are contrary to current land use restrictions and without the required permits,
including the unauthorized diversion and use of water, and unlawful trespass over lands
belonging to others.
To support the Application, Mr. Leick cites ECC 19.12.020.B which lists Agriculture as a
Permitted Use in FR zones, but he ignores the fact that the term Agriculture is defined
therein not to include “any agriculture industry or business”. ECC 19.04.020.
(Indeed, the frequent references in the Application to combustive biochar manufacture
and expansive fruit production and handling are the types of industrial uses that are
expressly excluded from the code’s definition of agriculture.) As noted above, APA
protection is available only to agriculture conducted “with a reasonable expectation of
profit.” Utah Code Section 17-41-101(10). That he intends to operate the property as a
profit-making business is clear from the Application, though he concedes he cannot
predict any level of profitability. Exhibit 8, p. 9. Thus, without a reasonable expectation
of profit, his current and proposed business uses are not permitted under ECC
19.12.020.B. Even if, for argument’s sake, the proposed uses could be considered to be
permitted uses, that code section still subjects the land to applicable standards and
limitations including the need to have applied for and received approval under the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone before beginning work. He did not do so.

Mr. Leick’s described operations and expansion plans are activities that are contrary to
the Values and Recommendations expressed in the Emigration Canyon General Plan.



                                                                                 2|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
They are not allowed in this part of Emigration Canyon. Approval of the Application
granting the preemptive protections inherent in APA status would effectively sanction
current unlawful uses of the Property and deprive Emigration Canyon City of the ability
to properly regulate future current and future uses of the Property through established
zoning and permit processes. See Utah Code Section 17-41-402. His plans to convert
this arid slope into a miniature Imperial Valley are inappropriate and should not be
countenanced.
            MR. LEICK HAS NO RIGHT OF ACCESS THROUGH EOPOA
Mr. Leick was informed before he purchased the Property that it is landlocked and, in
particular, that he had no right to access it across or through property owned by EOPOA
and or Salt Lake City. It is not clear from the Application how he plans to access,
improve and maintain the Property going forward. The only description of access in the
Application is in Exhibit 3, p. 3, where it states: “The property can be reached by foot or
mountain bike via on 1.0-mile single track trail originating at a parking lot administered
by the Emigration Improvement District (EID) along Pine Creek Canyon Road.” That is
not a helpful reference, since EOPOA is unaware of a road by that name, and Mr. Leick’s
website, https://freezecreek.org/home/present public access/ describes that trail as being
three miles long. It is doubtful that the improvements he describes to date could have all
been made utilizing only that access or that he intends to use that three-mile trail to
support the extensive construction and operations he describes.
Mr. Leick has previously trespassed through EOPOA property to access the Property, and
it appears that his plans contemplate future Property access through two miles of EOPOA
private roads, a half mile of EID’s graded private easement, and about another half mile
of land owned by Salt Lake City. He does not have the right to cross any of those
properties.1
Mr. Leick attempts to end-run the fact that he does not have permission from EOPOA,
EID, and Salt Lake City to cross their lands by citing a decision by an administrative

1
 Once he arrives at the Property, and likely before that on lands owned by others, he describes
plans to create a twelve-foot-wide road with significant additional width for cuts and shoulders,
by removing topsoil and organics from the site by truck and importing many truckloads of
granular material and road base. It appears that he plans to trespass on the EOPOA roads,
improve the access across the EID easement and pioneer a road across Salt Lake City property to
a similar standard to create a 12-foot-wide road for two-way traffic by heavy trucks for facility
construction and operations, along with vehicular traffic for workers, students, and customers. Of
additional concern is the fact that the finished “driveway” is projected to have grades in excess of
18%, presenting dangerous, if not impossible, challenges for fire protection and winter access.
Application, Exhibit 9, pages 124-130 “Site Improvements.” In addition to the trespass concerns,
EOPOA believes that the proposed road width and grade do not comply with current ECC codes
and could not be permitted.



                                                                                        3|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
hearing officer. Application, Exhibit 10, p. 1. He reads far too much into that decision,
which simply found that the Property is a lot of record. This was not a ruling by a court
of general jurisdiction. EOPOA and Salt Lake City were not parties to and are not bound
by that decision. More importantly, that decision did not, and could not have, confirmed
ownership of a road or other right-of-way across EOPOA and Salt Lake City lands.
Indeed, the hearing officer volunteered, “It is my opinion that the parcel is not adjacent to
a “street” as defined by relevant ordinances”, and rather based his decision on the fact
that the parcel appeared to have been accessible by some right-of-way at the time of the
1888 patent. September 9, 2024, Amended Land Use Hearing Decision, p. 2. The
hearing officer also confirmed at page 3 that “This decision does not grant any other
approval for the use or development of this “lot of record”, including access rights.”
(EOPOA’s emphasis.)
Mr. Leick acknowledged the infirmity of his access claim by his recent filing of a lawsuit
in the Third District Court against Emigration Canyon City, Salt Lake City, and EOPOA,
Case Number 250906345, asking the Court to declare that he has a right of access across
miles of their private roads and lands to get to the Property. The lawsuit is in its very
early stages, and it would be improper to grant the Application, or, indeed, any permits
for any of the improvements and facilities he describes, or licenses for their operation,
until and unless the trial and appellate courts of the State of Utah have entered a final
judgment declaring that Mr. Leick has the right to cross and improve the defendants’
property.
                  WATER RIGHTS AND WATER QUALITY IMPACTS
Mr. Leick describes three water sources on the Property, implying that he may have used
those sources to support his current operations, though he candidly admits that “Water
rights are not assigned to the Freeze Creek property ownership.” Application, Exhibit 3,
p.9 Water. In Utah, all water belongs to the state. Utah Code Section 73-1-1. It is
unlawful to use water for a specific use, at a place, in an amount, or at a time other than
that for which it has been properly appropriated. New appropriations are not available in
the area since all of the waters in the Great Salt Lake Drainage are already fully
appropriated.
The Application also predicts a future “septic tank drain field.” Application, Exhibit 10,
p. 6. Septic and other wastewater facilities are not, or should not, be allowed up-gradient
from the EID well that EOPOA and much of Emigration Canyon rely upon for culinary
water. EOPOA does not understand why a septic system would even be conceptualized
except as a pretext for a future dwelling on the Property. (This is already a real concern:
Last week EOPOA informally tested the water downstream from the Property and
cultured the sample in accordance with Utah Water Watch criteria and found higher
E.coli levels than were present in samples taken the same day from East Canyon Creek.)



                                                                                  4|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
EOPOA is very concerned about the adverse impacts on the water quality that would
result from the extensive farming operations that are planned, as well as the sanitary
facilities that would be needed for the farm workers and invitees.
No agricultural activities requiring irrigation or other use of water have been or are
currently permitted. The impacts on water quality from the planned farming and tourism
operations have not been addressed. It would be improper for the Council to grant the
Application or, indeed, any permits for the improvements and facilities he describes, until
and unless water rights duly authorizing use of the state’s water on the Property for the
proposed purposes have been finally approved and the water quality impacts adequately
assessed. APA approval at this juncture should also be denied by the Council because the
future protections inherent in APA would severely limit the Council’s ability to address
those serious impacts in the future.
                       OTHER CONCERNS AND OBJECTIONS
While the factors listed above are reasons sufficient to require denial of the Application,
EOPOA has additional concerns and objections to the Application and the plans
described therein. Reserving its right to raise additional matters in the future, EOPOA
offers the following non-inclusive list of its concerns and objections.
    •    WILDFIRE RISK. The Parcel lies within an area prone to wildfire, and any fire
         that ignites onsite would immediately threaten homes of EOPOA members as
         well as others in the canyon. A wildfire in 1988 burned about 90% of Freeze
         Canyon. (Nelson, C.V., and Rasely, R.C., 1988, Affleck Park fire sediment yield
         analysis: Salt Lake County Public Works Department unpublished memorandum,
         5 p.). Construction, maintenance and operational activities at the Parcel pose a
         substantial risk of igniting a wildfire that don’t currently exist. The Application
         contemplates the practice of using biochar to return carbon to the soil. Biochar
         production consists of igniting woody material in a metal box with limited
         oxygen, thus producing a product similar to charcoal. Any sparks, flames or coals
         that escape from this apparatus would be virtually certain to start a fire in the
         surrounding forest, and the remote location and difficult access to the site would
         delay suppression efforts. There is no fire-flow water storage available for fire
         suppression and the narrow width and steep access grades described for the access
         road will make it difficult if not impossible for fire trucks to respond to the
         Property. The risk is too great for any supposed reward from this method of
         clearing downed logs and other forest debris from the site.

         The Application posits improvements involving extensive use of heavy equipment
         for road building and construction activities, not to mention motorized equipment
         for delivery, planting and harvesting activities – all involving fuel and lubrication



                                                                                   5|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
         storage, transfer and use. These activities present ignition sources that are not
         currently present and should not be allowed in the future in this volatile
         environment.

    •    RECENT CONDUCT. The Application states that the Property is currently in
         use as a commercial agricultural business. It lists apiary operations, commercial
         quantities of maple sap collected, and native fruit harvested for syrups as existing
         uses. Application, Exhibit 7. Leaving aside the fact that some of these activities
         are non-conforming uses that are not allowed in the Project’s zone, they are all
         commercial activities for which a business license is required. ECC 5.02.010-
         .020. Even worse, Mr. Leick recently erected a sign on the Property stating that it
         is a protected “Agritourism” property. Agritourism is defined as “the
         combination of agricultural production with tourism to attract participants from
         the general public” for their “entertainment, recreation, or education”. Utah
         Code Section 78B-4-512 (EOPOA’s emphasis.) EOPOA strongly objects to the
         conduct of or plans for any Agritourism activities on the Property. It is not zoned
         for a business based on attracting the general public for entertainment, recreation
         or education. These are activities for which a business license is required but
         could not be granted. EOPOA objects to the operation of an agritourism business
         because the additional traffic and wildfire risks inherent in inviting the public to
         the Property.

         The activities done and planned for the Property also fall within the definition of
         Development, for which advance permits are required. ECC 19.02.090;
         19.04.165. Mr. Leick admits that he has cleared trees and vegetation on the
         Property even though such removal may only be done in compliance with ECC
         19.12.100. He states in Exhibits 8 and 9 of the Application that he has
         constructed a shed, tree house and solar array on the Property, apparently without
         first obtaining the required permits. ECC 19.04.140, -.520. Indeed, EOPOA is not
         aware that Mr. Leick obtained any of the required city licenses or permits for the
         business activities or construction he describes. He also states that he has spent
         thousands of dollars on streambed alterations, Application, Appendix ,4, p. 2,
         even though it is illegal to alter natural streams without first obtaining a written
         permit from the State of Utah. Utah Code Section 73-3-29. EOPOA is unaware
         of any such permit. EOPOA submits that this past pattern of unapproved
         activities is reason enough to expect that Mr. Leick may also ignore future license
         and approval requirements and thus should not be accorded the regulatory
         insulation that would be afforded by the creation of an APA.




                                                                                    6|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
    •    FUTURE PLANS. Exhibits 8 and 9 to the Application detail plans for, among
         other things, a new 8’x12’ bridge, a new 16’x16’ observation deck, a new
         10’x’12’ Slovenian bee house, a new 40’x80’ West Homestead barn building pad
         (presumably to be followed by erection of a 40’x80’ barn), a new 16’x16’
         greenhouse building pad (presumably to be followed by erection of a 16’x16’
         greenhouse), and a new 20’x40’ lumber mill building pad (presumably to be
         followed by erection of a 20’x40’ lumber mill). These plans indicate an intense
         level of development that is inappropriate for this sensitive site and that,
         particularly considering past conduct where regulations have not been honored,
         should not be insulated from the regulatory protections of an APA.

    •    TRAFFIC. EOPOA is very concerned about the adverse traffic impacts of Mr.
         Leick’s plans. The thousands of heavy truckloads of equipment and materials to
         support this project, including excavation and grading equipment, the concrete
         necessary to complete the 4256 square feet of building pads, the laborers, and
         sanitary facilities, and the trips by the many workers and “students” required to
         manage the ongoing farm operations, not to mention the tourism goal of
         agritourism, would present an increased and unnecessary burden on Emigration
         Canyon Road regardless of how he intends to access the Property from the
         highway. If his intent is to access the Property through EOPOA, as it appears,
         then its traffic concerns are amplified manyfold. The EOPOA roads are privately
         owned and maintained. These roads are not designed or engineered to support an
         ongoing, intense commercial agricultural business. EOPOA has very serious
         concerns about the damage that would be done to its roads and the safety and
         liability issues that would be presented if Mr. Leick were allowed to access and
         support his Property through its roadway system.

    •    ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER ADVERSE IMPACTS. In addition to the
         concerns of fire risk, noise, construction impacts, water quality, and waste (animal
         and human, whether by septic system or regular sanitation container traffic),
         animal husbandry issues mentioned above, EOPOA objects to the proposed
         introduction of non-native animal species to the area including pigs, goats, cattle,
         sheep, and poultry. The Application does not reveal how these animals would be
         transported, how their waste will be handled or where they will be housed (during
         the months where snow cover and weather conditions render access and their use
         problematic at the site – nor the cost of this care and attendant effect on
         profitability. Downstream users of Freeze Creek water and EID can expect
         increased pollution from such practices taking place near the water's source. The
         Application reveals that carnivores (foxes, cougars, black bears, coyotes, bobcats,
         skunks, raccoons, marten, fishers, mink, weasels) "are common across the



                                                                                  7|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
         property," (p. 24), but does not reveal how or whether these carnivores – plus the
         coyotes that occupy the area – will be prevented from predating on the domestic
         animals.

         The Application frankly acknowledges that prior “historical vegetation
         management” is not evident on the Property. Application, Exhibit 3, p. 4. Thus,
         vegetation management is not a historical use of the Property and cannot be a
         basis for approving APA status. For that and other environmental reasons,
         EOPOA also objects to Mr. Leick’s stated plans of introducing the 15 species of
         trees and shrubs, 19 species of edible forest edge plants, 20 species shady edible
         forest plant species, 56 edible riparian buffer plant species, and 15 edible
         windbreak plant species to the area. The great majority of these 125 species are
         non-native and should not be allowed to be introduced into or allowed to
         propagate in what is already a fragile, arid environment.

    •    Esthetics. The extensive development described in the Application, and the road
         or driveway Mr. Leick wants to construct, if allowed, and particularly if protected
         by APA status, will create permanent scars and other visual impacts. EOPOA
         members often use the Freeze Creek area for recreation and access to public
         lands, and believe that their use and enjoyment will be severely impacted if the
         Application is approved.
                                      CONCLUSION
EOPOA appreciates your careful consideration of its concerns and objections and will be
happy to respond to any questions you may have. We trust that as these points and those
that may be raised by others are properly weighed, you will agree with EOPOA that the
Application is ill-conceived and must be denied.

                                               Very truly yours,

                                               CLYDE SNOW & SESSIONS




                                               Edwin C. Barnes
                                               Timothy R. Pack

cc: Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association




                                                                                  8|Page

4938-7453-2972, v. 1
From:              August Bress
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments on Freeze Creek APA Application for Parcel 10-20-400-002
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 5:04:49 PM
Attachments:       Comments on Freeze Creek APA Application for Parcel 10-20-400-002.pdf



   You don't often get email from august.bress@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I am writing as an Emigration Canyon resident to express my opposition to the proposed
Agricultural Protection Area designation for Parcel 10-20-400-002 (Freeze Creek Forest).
While the preservation of agriculture is an important community goal, I believe this
application is not made in good faith and would have serious negative impacts on Emigration
Canyon.

Approval would permanently limit the City’s ability to apply zoning, control new
construction, and protect the watershed -- while introducing new risks related to traffic,
wildfire danger, and environmental harm. The agricultural activities described do not appear to
meet the statutory requirement for commercial agricultural production under Utah Code § 17-
41-101.

Please see the attached brief for a more complete explanation of these concerns. I urge you to
deny the application in order to preserve the City’s oversight and protect the character and
safety of our community.

Thank you for your consideration.

August Bress
Submitted by:
August Bress
715 N Freeze Creek Circle
Salt Lake City, UT 84108

Request: Designation of Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Parcel: 10-20-400-002, Emigration Canyon (40 acres, FR-20 Zone)

Summary of Opposition

The proposed Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA) raises significant
concerns for Emigration Canyon residents and the City. While agricultural preservation
is an important goal, the application appears to use the APA statute as a loophole to
shield planned development and operations from normal zoning oversight. Approval
would restrict the City’s zoning authority, building permit control, and eminent domain
powers, creating lasting consequences that may not reflect genuine agricultural
purposes.

Key Concerns

1. Questionable Agricultural Purpose

   •   Utah Code § 17-41-101(2) requires agricultural production for commercial
       purposes.
   •   “Crops” and “livestock products” under § 17-41-101(10) must have a reasonable
       expectation of profit.
   •   The application’s reliance on small-scale maple sap, native berries, and hobby-
       scale apiaries does not demonstrate commercially viable agricultural production.
       Instead, it resembles an experimental land-use plan designed to invoke APA
       protections while pursuing unrelated objectives.

2. Loss of Local Oversight

   •   Approval would permanently limit the City’s authority to:
          o Apply zoning and land-use controls.
          o Review and condition building permits for new structures.
          o Exercise eminent domain, if ever necessary.
   •   These powers exist to safeguard the public interest and should not be
       surrendered lightly.
3. Traffic, Roads, and Neighborhood Character

   •   Planned construction, operations, and employee/contractor traffic would place
       heavy strain on Emigration Oaks’ narrow private roads, not designed for
       commercial farm traffic.
   •   Introduction of farm operations into this residential setting undermines the rural-
       residential character and quiet enjoyment of existing homeowners.

4. Water and Environmental Impacts

   •   The parcel sits within a Drinking Water Source Protection Zone, heightening risks
       from soil disturbance, apiary chemicals, or accidental spills.
   •   Intensive clearing, irrigation, and construction threaten watershed integrity that
       Salt Lake City Public Utilities has a statutory duty to protect.

5. Wildfire Danger

   •   Farming operations and on-site structures increase ignition risks in a wildfire-
       prone canyon.
   •   Additional access needs, such as a proposed road along Freeze Creek, could
       both disrupt riparian areas and create new vectors for fire danger.

6. Non-Native Species and Ecological Risks

   •   Planned introduction of nursery crops, fruit trees, and other species risks
       displacing fragile native ecosystems and wildlife corridors.
   •   Once established, non-native plants and imported bees can spread well beyond
       property boundaries, undermining conservation values of adjacent U.S. Forest
       Service and watershed lands.

Conclusion

The Freeze Creek APA request is not a good-faith agricultural preservation proposal.
Instead, it would lock in broad protections while imposing serious risks on roads, water,
wildfire safety, and neighborhood character. The statute was never intended to be used
to bypass zoning controls for speculative or marginal agricultural ventures.

The City should deny the APA application and preserve its ability to review any future
proposals through the normal zoning and permitting processes.
From:              jchriste@xmission.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN APA -- Comments
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:11:19 PM



   You don't often get email from jchriste@xmission.com. Learn why this is important

Interesting proposal. However, I am totally opposed to it. While it may meet the land
use requirements of Salt Lake County, I believe it is way beyond the intent of these
requirements. Just because the law says something is OK, doesn’t mean it should be
allowed or built.

Hence, I do NOT want this proposal approved for the following reasons:
  1. Such a project would destroy the native characteristics of the Freeze Creek
     drainage.
  2. Buildings, platforms, and other infrastructure needed to support the proposed
     agriculture dictate the need for roads, water, power, and waste management.
     None of these are available at or near the site.
  3. Adding the required infrastructure may impact the water quality of the
     Emigration Improvement District’s Freeze Creek well. Over one hundred (100+)
     households in Emigration Canyon depend upon water from this well.
  4. It’s a stupid idea.

John Christensen
6162 Last Camp Circle
From:              cputnam2007@aol.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comment - Freeze Creek APA designation proposal
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 9:48:58 PM



   You don't often get email from cputnam2007@aol.com. Learn why this is important

To Diana Baun, City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

    I write out of concern that the proposed Freeze Creek APA designation requested
by Mr. Ryan Leich will be incompatible with the present uses and character of the
Freeze Creek area. While a laudable agricultural enterprise is envisioned in this
proposal, I fear the attendant developments/structures/access road, etc. will produce
more road traffic and chaos in the area. As well, from my experience as a landowner
(16 years) and gardener in this area, it will be very difficult to successfully grow the
proposed agricultural crops (berries, etc.) given the browsing and eating habits of
resident wildlife - without constructing significant barrier fences. I was unable to see
the where barriers and attendant structures will be located and am hesitant to
endorse this proposal in our community.

Respectfully,
Catherine Putnam-Netto
5678 E Twin Creek Rd.
Emigration Townshi
From:              ken kompass
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comment on Agricultural Protection Area proposal from Ryan Leick
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 12:06:50 PM



   You don't often get email from kenkompass@protonmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun:

Regarding this proposal for creation of an Agricultural Protection Area-

File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and I live approximately two miles, as the crow flies, from this
parcel.

I strongly oppose the creation of this Agricultural Protection Area. It is my understanding that Mr.
Leick has already been burning trash there and I have seen the clear cutting of trees on this
parcel.

The designation of this parcel as an Agricultural Protection Area will jeopardize our water supply
(the Emigration Oaks water supply is pumped from wells right in this area). This parcel is also
very, very close to Red Butte canyon.

Almost all of Mr Leick’s basically worthless, landlocked parcel is extremely steep and rocky and is
covered with thick trees and brush. There is no water (without drilling a well). It seems that Mr
Leick’s motivation here has little to do with farming but rather to provide loopholes for him to
further develop this land to his own financial benefit. The Agricultural Protection Area designation
would free him from some restrictions on building permits, and the rest us will pay the cost.

Only a few weeks ago, Mr Leick filed a frivolous lawsuit against the Emigration Oaks Property
Owners Association (EOPOA) claiming there was an ancient public road from his property in order
to force the EOPOA to grant him access to our private roads so that he may develop his otherwise
worthless parcel. The timing and nature of Mr Leick’s APA proposal appear to have very little to
do with farming and everything to do with his overall strategy of enriching himself.

Please do not grant Mr Leick the designation of an Agricultural Protection Area for this parcel.

Warmest regards,

Kenneth S Kompass
5455 E Pioneer Fork Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:              tomgree@gmail.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments on agricultural protection zone for Emigration Canyon
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 10:28:09 AM



   You don't often get email from tomgree@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

We should all strive to protect the habitat of Emigration Canyon. The introduction of an
agricultural protection zone will introduce non-native species and further tax our limited water
resources. Therefore I am opposed to the granting of an agricultural protection zone for File:
OAM2025-001470


Thank you,
Molly McFadden
5522 E Pioneer Fork Rd
SLC, UT
From:              Kathryn Everton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments on application for agricultural permit affecting Emigration Canyon/Freeze Creek area
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 11:01:11 AM



   You don't often get email from kathryneverton@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

﻿Dear Ms. Baun/State of Utah,

I am writing to express my complete opposition to Mr. Ryan Leick's agricultural permit
in Emigration Canyon (File: OAM2025-001470).
My greatest concern is the high risk of impact on the entire canyon's well water
supply. Allowing agricultural development near/upstream from well water supply risks
unacceptable contamination with herbicides, pesticides, and both human and animal
waste. In a severe drought, there is also a risk of his upstream farm diverting
underground water that is needed for families and businesses in the canyon.

I am also concerned that his farm activities may pose an increased fire risk if he
choses to implement controlled burns as part of his farm management. Fire risk in the
region is already extremely high.

Mr. Leick would require new road access along Freeze Creek, which would damage a
precious local resource for recreation/hiking and water source for local fauna.

If Mr. Leick does not build a new access road he will require road access through
Emigration Oaks. This is a privately maintained road and I vehemently oppose public
access due to increased traffic/safety risks and road wear/tear requiring private funds
for maintenance.

Thank you for registering my concerns.

Kind regards,
Kathryn Everton
492 N Marathon Cir
SLC UT 84108
919-448-8130
From:              Sabrina Haller
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments on File OAM2025-001470
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:43:50 AM



   You don't often get email from sabrinahaller30@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and have been following the lawsuit between our HOA
and Mr. Ryan Leick regarding his property at 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Rd.

It is my understanding that Mr. Leick intends to build a public road through our private
community to support a sizable agro-tourism project. While I do not know every detail of his
project, the potential consequences are concerning.

Our family—and many others—chose the Oaks for its peace, privacy, and safety. My three
daughters bike and walk our dog on our quiet roads and trails. Opening a public roadway
would fundamentally change that environment.

 Development and increased vehicle traffic and visitors would dramatically raise wildfire risk
from cars parking in dry grass, discarded cigarette butts, or fireworks. Noise, trash, livestock
odors, and invasive plants are also foreseeable problems that could permanently degrade our
beautiful neighborhood.

Emigration Oaks was never intended for commercial development. It was created as a
sanctuary for homeowners, which is why we all moved here. Allowing a public access road
would set a dangerous precedent and sacrifice the safety and well-being of hundreds of
residents for the benefit of a single developer.

I respect property rights and personal freedoms, but not when one person’s ambitions threaten
an entire community. I strongly urge all decision-makers to weigh the long-term risks to
public safety, fire prevention, and our unique environment before permitting any action that
opens our private roads to the public.

Thank you for considering these serious concerns. I am happy to discuss further if needed.

Sincerely,
Sabrina Haller

540-325-6061
From:              Rachel Baar
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments regarding opposition to the APA application for Parcel 10-20-400-002 - please confirm you received.
Date:              Saturday, September 20, 2025 5:17:21 PM



   You don't often get email from rachelbaarcanale@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Rachel Baar, MD

5470 E.Pioneer Fork Road

Emigration, Utah 84108

rachelbaarcanale@gmail.com

Re: Opposition to the Agricultural Protection Area (APA) Application for Parcel 10-20-
400-002 (1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road)

Dear Members of the Agricultural Protection Area Review Board,

I am writing to express my strong concerns regarding the proposal submitted by Ryan Leick
for the creation of an Agricultural Protection Area (APA) on Parcel 10-20-400-002, located in
the Forestry & Recreation (FR-20) Zone. After reviewing the application and the materials
provided, it is my belief that this request, if granted, would have a number of serious and
irreversible negative impacts on our neighborhood, environment, and community.

1. Compatibility with Current and Historic Land Use

The property in question is currently not being utilized for agricultural production, nor has it
been for many decades. While Mr. Leick claims to operate an agroforestry and conservation
business, the proposal does not reflect a commercial agricultural operation by any reasonable
standard. The claim of maple syrup production is particularly concerning, as there are no
native sugar maples in the area, and it is highly unlikely that syrup production could be
economically viable on this land. Additionally, while the property was historically used for
seasonal sheep grazing, this activity has not occurred for decades, raising further questions
about the feasibility of the proposed agricultural operations. Given the steep hillside and high-
risk fire area in the middle of wilderness, this land is not suited for the type of commercial
activity outlined in the application.

2. Environmental Concerns

There are significant risks associated with granting this APA in an area that is already highly
vulnerable to environmental and wildfire hazards. The area surrounding Parcel 10-20-400-002
is a sensitive ecosystem, and the introduction of any industrial-scale agricultural operations
could lead to contamination of the water sources that serve the hundreds of residents living in
the canyon, including the Salt Lake City watershed. Mr. Leick's past behavior, such as the use
of helicopters to drop heavy machinery and the reported illegal fires on his property, only
exacerbates concerns that his operations could have devastating environmental impacts.

Furthermore, the introduction of non-native plant and animal species, as outlined in Mr.
Leick's proposal, poses a serious threat to the biodiversity of the region. The land is not suited
for large-scale agricultural production, particularly in an area that is part of a larger wilderness
corridor. This area is critical to preserving native flora and fauna, and any changes could have
far-reaching consequences.

3. Impacts on Infrastructure and Local Roads

Another significant concern is the strain that Mr. Leick's proposed operations will place on the
already limited infrastructure in Emigration Oaks. The construction of structures, employee
traffic, and equipment movement on private roads will increase wear and tear on already
fragile roads that were not designed to handle this kind of traffic. The area is not equipped to
handle the demands of a large-scale operation, especially in the face of winter conditions and
steep terrain. The creation of a road along Freeze Creek, as outlined in the proposal, would
only further exacerbate these issues, potentially leading to the degradation of roads and
increased maintenance costs that would be borne by the community.

4. Loss of Local Zoning Control and Public Safety

Perhaps most troubling is the potential loss of local zoning authority, building permit
oversight, and eminent domain powers. If the APA is granted, the City and County would
relinquish critical powers to regulate and control development in the area. This would remove
essential oversight of structures, potentially compromising the safety of the neighborhood,
especially given the ongoing risk of wildfires in the region. The ability to manage building
codes, environmental impact, and public safety would be effectively removed from local
governance, leaving residents with limited recourse if things go wrong.

5. Legal and Regulatory Violations

It has come to my attention that Mr. Leick has already engaged in activities that violate both
state and local laws. Reports indicate that he has used helicopters to illegally drop heavy
machinery and vehicles onto his property, and evidence suggests that illegal fires have been lit
and abandoned on the land. These actions not only undermine the legitimacy of his claims but
also demonstrate a disregard for the community’s safety and legal protections.

Conclusion

For all of the reasons outlined above, I respectfully request that the Agricultural Protection
Area (APA) request for Parcel 10-20-400-002 be denied. This proposal does not meet the
criteria set forth in Utah’s Agricultural Protection Area statute, particularly regarding the
land’s current use for agricultural production, its suitability for such activities, and the overall
impacts on the environment, infrastructure, and public safety.

I appreciate your consideration of these concerns and hope that you will carefully weigh the
long-term consequences of this proposal for our community and the surrounding environment.

Sincerely,

Rachel Baar, MD
From:              Natalie Kaddas
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments regarding request for Agricultural Protection area in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 2:53:02 PM
Attachments:       Outlook-giadve0o.png
                   Outlook-a54hm5pp.png



   You don't often get email from nataliek@kaddas.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,

I hope this message finds you well. I am reaching out to share my heartfelt concerns
about the proposal for an Agricultural Protection Area within the private Emigration Oaks
neighborhood. As a proud homeowner in this beautiful community, I chose to live here to
enjoy and protect the natural environment that nurtures us.

The thought of commercial farming operations being introduced along the picturesque
Freeze Creek area is quite troubling to me. Such an endeavor would not only increase
traffic on our private roads—financed by the homeowners association (HOA)—but also
pose a threat to the native plant species we have worked diligently to preserve. Our
community takes great pride in its native flora, which contributes to the unique charm of
our neighborhood.

Moreover, the homes in Emigration Oaks are highly sought after and significantly
contribute to the tax revenue of both the state and county. I fear that the presence of
commercial farming could undermine property values and reduce this vital source of
revenue in our private enclave.

I firmly believe that our established neighborhood is not a suitable setting for the
initiation of farming operations.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. I hope we can work together to ensure that
Emigration Oaks remains a vibrant and cherished community for all residents.

Warm regards,




 Natalie Kaddas

 President/CEO
O: +1801-972-5400


E: nataliek@kaddas.com


W: www.kaddas.com




                BABA Compliant

                ISO 9001:2015




The content of this message is confidential. If you have received it by mistake, please inform us and then delete this message.



It is forbidden to copy, forward or in any way reveal the contents of this message to anyone. The integrity and security of



this email cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, the sender will not be held liable for any damage caused by the message.
From:              Rebecca Bennion
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Concerns about Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Oaks
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 8:49:28 AM



   You don't often get email from rebeccapbennion@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun,

As a 20-year resident of Emigration Oaks, I'm extremely concerned about Ryan Leick's
application for 40 acres of Agricultural Protection on his property, located not far from my
home. We are a residential community, with vulnerabilities to wildfire, invasive plants and
insufficient water supplies. Allowing an agricultural area near our homes would significantly
increase the risk of wildfire (extra vehicle traffic and construction equipment on dry,
flammable land), likely introduce non-native plants that would undermine the labor many of
us volunteers have invested in managing invasive plants (which interrupt our ecosystem and
worsen wildfire danger), plus an agricultural area would demand more than a fair share of our
precious water, which most residents use sparingly and conservatively. I strongly object to
Ryan Leick's application and hope you will seriously consider the risks and costs to our
community.

Sincerely,
Rebecca Bennion
931 Twin Creek Circle
From:              Mony Ty
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Concerns About Freeze Creek Forest APA and Impacts on Property Values and Rentals
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 11:38:21 PM



   You don't often get email from saltlakemodern@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun,

As a property manager currently representing multiple homes in Emigration Canyon, and as a
realtor who has sold multiple homes in the canyon, I am deeply concerned about the potential
approval of the Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA) application. While I
respect real efforts toward land stewardship, the proposed uses described in this application
raise serious issues that would directly impact renters, homeowners, and property values in the
canyon.

1. Noise, activity, and loss of peace and quiet.
Many of the renters in Emigration Canyon work from home. They specifically choose this
community for its peace, quiet, and natural environment. The introduction of sawmill
operations, increased traffic, and new structures would disrupt that quiet character, making it
far less desirable for remote workers and families who rely on a calm environment.

2. Negative impact on property values.
The canyon’s appeal lies in its tranquility, open space, and proximity to nature. If this APA is
approved, the associated noise, activity, and development could significantly reduce property
values for homeowners, as the area would no longer be perceived as the same serene and
protected environment. Opening up the canyon to these types of development activities could
also negatively impact already-skyrocketing insurance rates for property owners.

3. Rental market challenges.
As a property manager, I rely on the unique appeal of Emigration Canyon to attract and retain
tenants. If the APA activities create ongoing disruption or environmental concerns, it will
become much more difficult to rent homes here, and rental rates will decline. This harms both
homeowners and the broader community.

4. Precedent for future development.
Allowing this APA to move forward could open the door to further development in other parts
of the canyon under the banner of “agriculture,” eroding the very qualities that make this area
desirable for both renters and homeowners.

For these reasons, I respectfully ask that you deny this APA application. Protecting the peace,
quiet, and natural character of Emigration Canyon is essential not just for environmental
reasons, but also for maintaining healthy property values and a sustainable rental market.

Thank you for considering these concerns. Please don't hesitate to contact me with any
questions.

Sincerely,
Mony Ty
Summit Sotheby's
(801) 550-7430
From:              Jen Chang
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Sally Ann Simnett
Subject:           Concerns re: Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 10:06:40 AM



   You don't often get email from biz@jenchang.net. Learn why this is important

Ms. Baun,

My wife Sally Simnett and I are residents and owners of 2 properties in Emigration Oaks and
are writing to express our concerns and opposition to the proposed Freeze Creek Agricultural
Protection Area. The plan to allow livestock to graze and live above the Emigration Irrigation
District wells represents a tremendous threat to the safety of the sole source of potable water
for the neighborhood/canyon. This is before considering the contamination that will come
from the proposed construction as well.

Allowing this project to proceed goes directly against the well-being and safety of all the
current residents who are using their land as designed, zoned and approved. I beseech the City
Council and Planning Commission to reject the proposed Protection Area.

Thank you,
Jen Chang (415) 218-4182
Sally Simnett
5664 E Pioneer Fork Rd
and
627 N Snowberry Ln
From:              John Bird
To:                Diana Baun; jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov; charris@emigration.utah.gov; rpinon@emigration.utah.gov;
                   dbrems@emigration.utah.gov; jsmolka
Cc:                John Bird
Subject:           Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in Freeze Creek Drainage
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 9:28:32 AM



   You don't often get email from jbird@albionfinancial.com. Learn why this is important




To Diana Baun and Emigration City Council,

I am a long-time Emigration Canyon resident and for the last twenty three years a regular
traveler in the Freeze Creek drainage. I’m writing regarding the application submitted to
reclassify forty acres in the Freeze Creek drainage as an Agricultural Protection Area.
While I have opinions on the impact such a zoning change would have on what has for
nearly a century been wild land I chose to first look at the code to see what qualifies for
such zoning and what the benefits to the landowner (and perhaps detriment to other
citizens) would be.

The relevant Code is Utah Chapter 41 - Agricultural and Industrial Protection Areas. Here
are some relevant sections:

17-41-305.1
Does the land have a history of being used for commercial agriculture and is it currently
being used for commercial agriculture?
The short answer is no. The applicant highlights that in the years sheep grazed in
Emigration Canyon they likely spent a portion of their time passing through and grazing
this parcel. By this definition my property in Emigration Canyon also qualifies for
Agricultural Protection Area zoning. As does every other property in the canyon. Which of
course is inconsistent with both the letter and the spirit of the law. Further, the claim
that the property is currently engaged in commercial agriculture with a reasonable
expectation of profit is, to be charitable, wishful thinking. The property is wild land. It is
steep and rocky with thin soils where soils exist. Water is seasonal and intermittent. The
landowner has made an effort, cutting and piling brush and tapping trees; silver maples I
think. The gap between cutting brush on a few score square meters of steep forested
wild land and having a commercially viable agricultural operation is huge.
17.41.305.3 Is the land viable for agricultural production?
This question is addressed above but I’ll reiterate key points here. The land is wild
mountain terrain with steep slopes, poor soils, rocky ledges, and limited water.
17.41.305.4 Proposed or actual improvements. To date the landowner has built a tree
house and a gazebo structure for a picnic table. As noted he has also cut some brush
and tapped some silver maple trees. Also as described the nature of the parcel - steep,
rugged, mountain terrain - is wholly unsuited to agriculture. If the landowner truly wished
to pursue commercial agriculture he would have chosen a more suitable piece of land.
Taken individually any one of these paragraphs disqualifies the property. Clearly Section
17.41.305 should be the end of the discussion. The property in question does not come
close to meeting the requirements for being rezoned as an Agricultural Protection Area.
Why then is the landlord pursuing this long-shot effort?
Soon after the landlord first purchased the property I met him on the trail and he shared
that he loved the idea of a wilderness retreat where he could go with his young family to
picnic, camp, and be in the mountains. At that time he knew that he’d be limited to trail
access but in our conversation came across as ok with that. In the ensuing years his
perspective has changed and as we all know has been working to build a road, across
land he does not own and has no right to traverse, into his property. So back to the
question: Why pursue an Agricultural Protection Area designation? The answer, I believe,
lies in section 17.41.402 of the code.
17.41.402. Limitations on Local Regulations.
The first paragraph of the section states the following:
“A political subdivision within which an agricultural protection area or industrial
protection area is created or with a mining protection area within its boundary shall
encourage the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture, industrial, or mining
use, respectively, within the area by not enacting a local law, ordinance, or regulation
that would unreasonably restrict a farm structure or farm practice or, in the case of an
industrial protection area, an industrial use of the land within the area or, in the case of a
mining protection area, a mining use within the protection area unless the law,
ordinance, or regulation bears a direct relationship to public health or safety."
Paragraph 2 of this section states that a political subdivision may not change the zoning
designation or regulation of the area in the Agricultural Protection Area without the
written permission of the landowner.
Allowing the Freeze Creek property to be rezoned as an Agricultural Protection Area
would require the Emigration City Council, the Salt Lake City Council, The Emigration
Improvement District, perhaps the U.S. Forest Service (Not sure on Forest Service - I
don’t know if Federal lands are subject to state regulations), and while private, perhaps
the Emigration Oaks Homeowners Association to “encourage the continuity,
development, and viability of agriculture...” “by not enacting a local law, ordinance, or
regulation that would unreasonably restrict a farm structure or farm practice...”.
Approval of this application has the potential to remove the right of the citizens of
Emigration Canyon to ensure clean water by forcing the Emigration Improvement District
to “encourage the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture” on the property.
Does this mean allowing terracing and the sediment such efforts would release? Does it
mean allowing fertilizer use and the damaging runoff that creates? Would it require
Emigration City and Salt Lake City to do the same?
And of course there’s the endgame - the applicants documented desire to build a road
across lands that do not belong to him up to his property. It’s very likely the landowner
would soon make the argument that the viability of his agricultural operation would be
enhanced if he had his road. And 17.41.402 requires political subdivisions to “encourage
the continuity, development, and viability of agriculture”. How could the various political
subdivisions deny him his road when his case would be that it would improve his
agricultural viability?
This is what the red herring of the “Agricultural Protection Area” is about. It’s not about
creating a commercial agriculture operation on land clearly unsuited to the purpose. It’s
about adding an additional lever to his quiver to force landowners and political
subdivisions to allow him his road.
But of course political decisions cannot be made exclusively on the basis of the likely
motivations of the applicant. And in this instance such a basis is not necessary as
17.41.305 makes it abundantly clear that the property in question does not qualify.
The applicant may protest that his application has nothing to do with his desire for a
road. Great. Put that in the application as a condition of approval. That the applicant will
not now or any time in the future attempt to create access to the property beyond the
hiking trail as it exists today. Bet he won’t agree to that.
Thank you all for your attention.


Regards,


John Bird




Albion Financial Group does not accept any investment instructions, including but not limited
to buy and sell orders, via e-mail. This e-mail (including any attachments) may contain
confidential, proprietary and privileged information, and unauthorized disclosure or use is not
allowed and is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). If you received this email by
mistake, please notify the sender and delete this e-mail from your system. E-mail messages are
not encrypted, so any information sent or received may not be secure. Thank you.
From:              Frank Whitby
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Do not support upper freeze creek development or access
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:43 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Do not support access to upper Freeze Creek areas and do not allow use
or changes to Emigration Oaks roads to facilitate access.
The owners of isolated properties have always known that they do not have access.
No one should be forced to facilitate access to their properties.  
It is not the responsibility of Emigration Oaks, nor is it in the best interest of
Emigration Oaks, to facilitate access or development of land in
Freeze Creek or Pinecrest or other areas.
-Frank Whitby (464 N Old Oak Rd)
From:              alan stotts
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Agriculture Protection Area Issue
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:55:38 PM
Attachments:       APA Opposition.docx



   You don't often get email from akstotts@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

Please note our attached opposition to the consideration of a new APA in Emigration Canyon.
Thank you
Alan Stotts
From:              Morpheus Z
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Canyon (File: OAM2025-001470)
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 4:33:14 PM



   You don't often get email from morpheus1041@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms Baun:

Please accept this letter and expression of opposition to Mr Ryan Leick's agricultural permit
request in Emigration Canyon.

The biggest risks of granting such a permit are two fold: increase in fire risk and
contamination of the water supply for the residents of the canyon who rely on the shared
community well for drinking water. Any agricultural activity - including burning of unwanted
vegitation nd the use of fertilizers and pesticides, are a direct threat to the health of our
residents. As a homeowner with young children in Emigration Canyon, I have a direct interest
in ensuring the safety of our community and the viability of our neighborhood as a place to
raise a family and hold property.  

Thank you for your kind attention to this matter.

Michael Tielborg, MD
492 N Marathon Cir, Salt Lake City, UT 84108
morpheus1041@gmail.com
919-448-8128
From:              Liz Joy
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Canyon -Agricultural Protection Area Request
Date:              Thursday, September 18, 2025 11:11:59 AM



   You don't often get email from eajslc@aol.com. Learn why this is important


To Whom It May Concern:

I am writing to express concern regarding the request to designate a 40-acre parcel of
land, situated in the midst of a protected forest, as “agricultural” and to permit further
road construction and development on it.

Allowing such a change would have serious environmental consequences. The
construction of unpermitted structures (already in place) and a new road (as has been
publicly discussed by the land owner) would fragment sensitive wildlife habitat, disrupt
ecological corridors, and increase the risk of erosion, invasive species, and pollution
in an otherwise pristine wilderness. Once a road is built, the land becomes more
vulnerable to human intrusion, vehicular traffic, and future development pressure,
undermining the ecological integrity of the surrounding protected forest.

Beyond the immediate environmental harms, approving this request would set a
dangerous precedent. Granting an agricultural designation and permitting
infrastructure expansion in a protected forest would open the door for other
landowners to seek similar exceptions. This risks creating a patchwork of
development within areas that were intended to remain intact, diminishing the
effectiveness of conservation efforts and weakening public trust in land-use
protections.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge that this request be denied. Protecting the
ecological value of this forest requires consistency, foresight, and a firm commitment
to preventing incremental encroachment.

Sincerely,

Elizabeth Joy, MD, MPH
699 Donner Hill Circle
SLC, UT. 84108
801-541-5592
From:              Brent Bowman
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Canyon Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 1:57:31 PM



   You don't often get email from brent2489@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

To whom it may concern.....

Regarding the following parcel:
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Acreage: 40 acres
Legal Description: SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Section 20, T 1N R 2E SLBM
Agricultural Use: Agroforestry and conservation

When this person purchased this property they were well aware that it was landlocked with no
access from Emigration Oaks. Since the purchase he has tried numerous ways to gain access
thru our HOA lands. We have denied his access to the property thru our roads and private
lands.

This is just another ploy to gain some type of access to the property. As a homeowner in
Emigration Canyon and Emigration Oaks, we are 100% against this rezoning of this property.

Thank you for your time and consideration in this matter.

Brent and Wendy Bowman
5947 E Pioneer Ridge Circle, SLC, UT 84108
678.576.3047 cell


__________________________________
From:              Christopher Canale
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Oaks agricultural proposal
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 7:11:19 PM



   You don't often get email from cccanale@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

In regards to the Ryan Leich agricultural proposal, the proposed
agricultural project presents significant risks to Utah’s private property
rights, fragile water resources, and protected wilderness. While agriculture
remains an essential part of Utah’s economy and heritage, this plan
overreaches in ways that threaten long-term sustainability and public
interest.


1. Private Roads and Property Rights
The proposal requires the use, alteration, or expansion of private roads to
support increased agricultural traffic and infrastructure. Such a move
undermines the rights of landowners who depend on those roads for safe,
quiet access to their homes and land. Heavy equipment, livestock transport,
and increased traffic will degrade these roads, impose maintenance costs on
private citizens, and erode the principle of private control over private land.
Utah’s long tradition of respecting individual property rights should not be
sacrificed for short-term agricultural gains.


2. Threats to the Aquifer
Perhaps the most concerning aspect is the potential draw on the local
aquifer. Utah already faces critical water shortages due to drought, climate
pressures, and population growth. Expanding agricultural use that demands
large-scale irrigation threatens to overdraw groundwater reserves. Once an
aquifer is depleted or contaminated, it is nearly impossible to restore within
a human timescale. Sacrificing future generations’ water security for short-
term agricultural expansion is neither responsible nor sustainable.


3. Impact on Wilderness and Ecosystems
The proposal encroaches on areas bordering designated wilderness, risking
habitat destruction, soil erosion, and fragmentation of ecosystems that are
already under stress. Utah’s wilderness areas are not only ecological
treasures but also economic assets, drawing millions of visitors who
support local communities through recreation and tourism. Once disturbed,
wilderness cannot be easily restored—its value lies precisely in its
undisturbed state.


Conclusion
Agricultural development must be balanced with the preservation of Utah’s
water, land, and wilderness. This proposal fails that test. By threatening
private property rights, jeopardizing our aquifers, and endangering
protected wildlands, it places short-term agricultural expansion above long-
term public good. Utah’s leaders should reject the current proposal and
instead pursue policies that strengthen agriculture through efficiency, water
conservation, and respect for private and public land stewardship.
Sincerely,
Christopher Canale

Sent from my iPhone
From:              sdiehl sisna.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Emigration Oaks Agricultural Protection Area request
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:58:45 AM



   You don't often get email from sdiehl@sisna.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,

I am writing to strongly oppose the requested APA designation in Emigration Oaks!

Those of us who purchased our home here have done so with the knowledge that we
have private roads, private protected land where we hike and recreate, our own
protected watershed with wells that supply clean water, strenuous fire prevention
efforts, and a peaceful environment. We pay for this, and for the maintenance of our
roads, with a yearly fee. The chaos this proposed "agritourism" project would
generate is terrifying. Our water would be endangered, our fire risk would increase,
and the construction would be incredibly disruptive.

Please deny this designation.

Thank you,

Susan Diehl - Emigration Oaks resident
From:              Meg Averett
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Farm Proposal on Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:17:50 PM




[You don't often get email from megaverett@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

This is ridiculous. That this would even be considered.
Please vote no on this. It is crazy….
From:              Nate Smith
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek - Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:11:25 AM



   You don't often get email from nate@dsc42.com. Learn why this is important

To Whom It May Concern
My name is Nathan Smith, and I’ve lived in the Emigration Oaks community for 20+ years. I’m
opposed to Mr. Leick’s proposal for upper Freeze Creek. I object to his proposal for several
reasons foremost being concern for the watershed for our community and preservation of the
Canyon. Additionally, I believe Mr. Leick purchased the property knowing very well the ground
and location was not suitable for such use but figured he could bully and threaten all in
opposition to get his way. He represents what’s wrong with our country.
Respectfully,
Nathan Smith   
From:               Ryan Wood
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Ag Protection Area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 1:41:01 PM




[You don't often get email from ryanbrucewood@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

﻿Hello Diana,

I am writing to you concerning the proposed Agricultural Protection Area in Freeze Creek in Emigration Canyon. I
am sure you have already received many emails on the matter, so I will be brief and direct. I am a resident and
homeowner of the Emigration Oaks neighborhood.

I am opposed to this agricultural protection area designation, as I feel that it is simply a tactic to gain road access to
the owners parcel of land. I am familiar with the situation and understand both sides of the argument, but I am
convinced that any agricultural designation of this parcel will be leveraged in an unintended, dishonest manner. I am
also extremely concerned about wildfire danger Please consider this a strong vote of dissent for this designation.

Thanks,

Ryan Wood

Sent from my iPhone
From:              tomgree@gmail.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agribusiness permit
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:03:25 AM



   You don't often get email from tomgree@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

We have just received more details about the intent of Ryan Leick’s agribusiness permit. The
permit would eventually lead to activities that are not suitable to Emigration Canyon:
nonnative species, pig grazing, a lumber milll, and a viewpoint platform for the public. All of
these activities would endanger the delicate ecosystem of Emigration Canyon.
Please do not support this permit
Yours,
Tom Greene
5522 E Pioneer Fork Rd
From:              Steven Christensen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultral Protection Area comments
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 4:40:56 PM
Attachments:       Freeze Creek Comments 2026-09-26.pdf



   You don't often get email from sc@ssc-a.com. Learn why this is important

Diana -

Attached is a letter with my comments regarding the Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection
Area application.

Thank you,
--Steven
From:               Markus Amann
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area - bad idea
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:45 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Hi Diana,
I live on Old Oak Road and just heard about Ryan Leick’s plans of creating the Freeze Creek
Agricultural Protection Area, and of building a road and a farm accessible to the public in
upper Freeze Creek.
I think this is – for many reasons – a terrible idea and we (my wife, kids, and I) strongly oppose.
Cheers,
Markus Amann

______________________________________
Markus Amann, Ph.D.
Theodore H. Stanley Presidential Endowed Chair in Anesthesiology
Professor, Department of Anesthesiology, University of Utah
GRECC Investigator, Salt Lake City VA Medical Center

Office: 801 582-1565 ext. 4358
Mobile: 801 425-2575
From:              Morpheus Z
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area - Ryan Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:30:49 PM



   You don't often get email from morpheus1041@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms Baun - please accept the following additions to an earlier email I sent to you
regarding this issue:

Water safety: A farm that employs gasoline or diesel powered equipment, has a concentration
of herd animals, uses controlled burns, utilizes pesticides or fertilizers or diverts water from a
community watershed all pose an imminent and direct threat the to health and safety of the
well that hundreds of homes in the Canyon rely on for drinking water. If the well were
contaminated, the safety, livability and value of the homes in the area would diminish
dramatically.

Fire risk: The operation of a commercial farm in a geographic region that is removed from
access roads and first responders creates an unacceptable increase in the risk of wildfire in the
Canyon.

Traffic: A commercial farming operation will increase traffic not just on the main canyon
road, but on our privately maintained roads, and not just from light passenger vehicles but
heavy trucks needed for a commercial operation. Our community roads have no shoulders, so
pedestrians and cyclists would be at increased risk of injury. Our roads are vulnerable to
damage, and we are liable for repairs.

Property values: The fact the the POA has already been sued to allow access to this proposed
agricultural protection area presents a potential barrier to sale of existing properties. It is not
clear to me if the ongoing lawsuit would need to be disclosed to a potential buyer in the
canyon, but if so, then the legal action taken by Mr Leick has already adversely affected
anyone seeking to sell property in the Oaks. Add this to our ongoing severe regional drought ,
the increased risk of fire, the potential threat to our community well, and the impact on the
value of existing real estate, the threat to homeowners in the Canyon cannot be ignored.

Status of the Applicant: While Mr Leick is very keen on asserting his own property rights, he
has flouted the property rights of residents of Emigration Oaks. He has trespassed on common
property multiple times in order to stock his landlocked acreage. He clearly has no regard for
the law except in how it might be leveraged to support his claim. He has established himself
as a dishonest broker, someone who can be trusted to break any promise he might make,
disregard any regulation he does not like and do whatever he pleases whenever he pleases. He
is not worthy of the public trust granting his request would demand.

Thank you again for hearing my objections.

Michael Tielborg
492 N Marathon Circle
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
919-448-8128
From:              Hanadi Farrukh
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:45 PM




[This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
risk at https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

This email is to voice our concerns and opposition to the creation of Freeze Creek Agricultural Area in Emigration
Canyon City. We are concerned about the introduction of any non-native plant species that can have detrimental
environmental impact on our ecosystem. In addition we are extremely concerned about contamination of our well
water by farms animal waste let alone the smell it may bring to our residential neighborhoods.

We urge you to consider refusing to grant any permits for agricultural purposes in Emigration City.

Thank you.
Respectfully

Hanadi and Imad Farrukh
5879 East Pioneer Fork Road
Emigration Canyon City, Ut 84108
From:              Family Backman
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Township
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 10:11:13 AM



   You don't often get email from slc84108@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,
We have lived in Emigration Canyon since 2005 and are opposed to the creation of the Freeze
Creek Agricultural Protection Area. It will cause undue habitat pressure on the already
stressed ecosystem of Emigration Canyon by introducing non-native plant and animal species
into Emigration Canyon. It could possibly affect our drinking water supply, air quality, and
increase risk of wildfires in Emigration Canyon. The owner of the property, Ryan Leick
wishes to create a farm on his property in upper Freeze Creek and have it designated as an
Agricultural Protection Area. He already has built a sugar maple collection system and wants
to render the tree sap into maple syrup, which would be an extreme fire hazard to Emigration
Canyon and the Red Butte Research Natural Area.

He has proposed to build many new structures, including a barn, a lumber mill, a Slovenian
bee house, and a large viewing platform. He intends to plant up to 125 new species of plants,
trees and shrubs, many of which are non-native plant species which will displace fragile and
vital plants to maintain the biodiversity and ecosystem in Freeze Creek.

He intends to raise and graze pigs, goats and sheep in the maintenance of his farm. This area
is above a communal water well for the Emigration Improvement District and has the potential
to pollute and contaminate the water with dangerous bacteria and viral pathogens which could
affect many residents who live in and rely on our water well for a safe source of drinking
water.

He intends to build a road and a bridge to get all of the necessary equipment to his property
which will impact a sensitive stream and wildlife corridor along Freeze Creek. This would
need to be in compliance or apply for a waiver with the Foothill and Canyons Overlay Zone
ordinance. This potential road will also impact Freeze Creek and our drinking water quality.
Currently, there is no road to his property and if he intends to make his agrotourism farm open
to the public, the road in Emigration Oaks will need to be made public and upgraded to meet
county road standards and add an increased cost in taxes to Emigration Canyon residents to
build a road for a commercial venture.

In summary, we are vehemently opposed to granting Mr. Leick a Freeze Creek Agricultural
Protection Area in Emigration Canyon. Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Drs. Richard and Sylvie Backman

275 Pioneer Ridge Road, Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:             Julie Wood
To:               Diana Baun
Subject:          Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:             Friday, September 26, 2025 9:13:09 PM



   You don't often get email from jmhwood@outlook.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Diana and Members of the Council and Planning Commission,

Please exercise caution in reviewing the application for an Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
designation in Freeze Creek. I respectfully submit my dissenting vote to this proposal.

This property was purchased with full knowledge that it was landlocked and without water
rights. The current effort to obtain APA status appears designed to strengthen litigation against
The Oaks, Salt Lake City, and Emigration Canyon, with the ultimate goal of forcing public
access through a private community.

The proposed use raises serious concerns:

       Water Supply: The introduction of livestock and irrigation-intensive plantings directly
       above our well poses a risk to our limited water resources.

       Fire Risk: Construction of additional structures, roads, and bridges, combined with
       grazing animals and non-native plantings, increases fire danger in an already vulnerable
       canyon environment.

       Community Impact: Opening this property to agrotourism would dramatically change
       the character of Freeze Creek, bringing traffic, noise, and public use to what is currently
       a peaceful residential area.

       Environmental Impact: Planting over 100 species, many non-native, threatens the
       natural ecology of Freeze Creek, which borders the protected Red Butte Canyon
       watershed.

Agricultural Protection Area status is intended to preserve existing, established agricultural
operations—not to facilitate a new and intensive use that fundamentally alters the surrounding
community and environment.

For these reasons, I urge the Council and Planning Commission to deny this APA designation
in order to protect the health, safety, and character of Freeze Creek and Emigration Canyon.

Thank you for your consideration.



Best regards,

Julie Wood

6138 E Pioneer Fork Road
Julie H. Wood | 801-699-6992
From:               Arden Weintraub
To:                 Diana Baun
Cc:                 blackdog200@mac.com; Becky Weintraub; EmigrationOaksBoard@gmail.com
Subject:            Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 11:26:12 AM




[You don't often get email from blackdog200@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Ms Baun,

We are property owners, and live in our home in Emigration Oaks. We enjoy the quiet atmosphere, the low traffic
burden, and use the trails on an almost daily basis.

The idea of the type of development being proposed by Ryan Leick, is a desecration to all that living in this canyon
offers, and attracted us to build here. Having an array of farm animals, buildings, equipment, non-native tree
species, and increased traffic burden, is unthinkable. Mr Lieck knew what he was purchasing when he bought his
property, as did we. Now he wants to change it in a draconian fashion to meet his desires, which will negatively
impact ours, and everyone else in this canyon. This does not even take into account, the greater environmental
impact, property valuations, etc.

Therefore, we are in complete opposition to any of Ryan Leick’s land being recognized, or designated, as an
Agricultural Protection Area.

Sincerely,

Arden & Becky Weintraub
From:              Jason Stock
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Comment Letter
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:45:50 PM
Attachments:       Freeze Creek Letter 9.25.25.pdf



   You don't often get email from jasonstock@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Diana,

Please find attached a comment letter concerning the proposal for the creation of an
agricultural protection area in Emigration Canyon.

Sincerely,
Jason Stock
From:              Ian Bird
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Agricultural Zone Comment
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:58:19 PM



   You don't often get email from ianmbird1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Hello,

My name is Ian Bird, and I have lived in Emigration Canyon my entire life. The freeze
creek trail was my playground growing up, and I continue to recreate on the trail as an
adult. I feel that I understand the terrain and ecology of the area quite well.



Ryan Leick’s ambitions to create an agricultural protection zone high in the freeze creek
drainage present a variety of issues. First, I do not feel that the zone meets the requirements
for the designation. It is rocky, steep terrain with relatively poor soil quality. It is wilderness
space that has never been used for commercial agriculture.



If the proposal to designate the land as an agricultural protection area moves forward, the
political bodies that generally oversee the area (Emigration Oaks, Emigration Canyon, Salt
Lake City) lose most, if not all, of their say in what Mr. Leick is able to build and grow on his
land. He has stated in multiple forums that he wishes to build a road to the property, and has
sued all overseeing bodies hoping to accomplish this end. If successful, this protection
designation would eliminate these entity’s ability to prevent such construction, as well as any
future projects that may negatively impact our community and the sanctity of the freeze creek
trail.



Besides the road issue, Mr. Leick wishes to graze livestock, introduce scores of non-native
plant species, and bring agrotourists into the freeze creek drainage. Besides the obvious
aesthetic and visual issues that regular users of the trail will have to adapt to, all of this will be
happening in our watershed, directly above the freeze creek well. A high desert environment is
fragile, and water is scarce. Introducing a commercial agrotourism business to the area could
do irreparable damage.



Besides these major issues of ecological damage and restricted community input, this is an
area that I, and I’m sure many other regular trail users, find sacred, for lack of a better word.
Children are raised to love the outdoors on this trail. I have vivid memories of playing in these
trees (which we fondly call the “Black Forest”). The experience of being able to raise a family
in a place where you can walk out the back door and enter a space which feels wild is unique
and special. While this factor may be less impactful, in my mind, than those previously
discussed, as a community we cannot forget how special this land, and this space is. It is worth
protecting, because once it’s gone, it’s gone forever.
With all of this in mind, I encourage resisting the proposal to designate this land as an
agricultural protection zone, and wholeheartedly pursuing preserving the land as it naturally
exists.



Thank you for your time,



Ian
From:               Sue Bird
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Agritourism and Agricultural Protection Area
Date:               Wednesday, September 24, 2025 4:30:22 PM




[You don't often get email from sueqbird@outlook.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Diana,
I writing to let you know that I am extremely opposed to allowing Ryan Leick to go any further with this insane idea
of an Agricultural Protection Area. This gentleman bought this land on the top and side of a mountain with the full
understanding that he did not and would not be granted access to build a road up there. He is now suing to get
approval for a road to this property via an Agricultural Use. He is claiming that he was successful at making some
sugar syrup.
Right now it looks like a homeless camp. There is plastic tubing running through the trees and a big jug that has
about 1/4 cup of sugar water. He has put up a sign regarding this Agritourism and Protected area even though he
has not been granted this right. His application has stated he wishes to have garage built, manufacturing and
packing and storage to support this business. There is no way any of this can be built with out a road to access. He
has visions for some Agritourism business however again there is no assess and I understand that the Emigration
Oaks Homeowners Association has not granted him access let alone the public access to our trails.
This is a very pristine area (or was). He has plans for grazing, chickens, pigs and sheep. What about the waste
products? This area is in our watershed area and there is no septic system up there. He has cut down a bunch of
trees and left in big piles which present a fire hazard. He has plans to clear areas and provide wind breaks for his
crops. This is not the place for any kind of commercial crops. The sides of the cliffs are very steep and there is only
a very small creek that runs through there. This would not provide the water needed to plant and establish any kind
of crop. Once he starts clearing the land, there will be increased exposure for noxious and invasive weeds that we
have been trying to keep out of the area.
I fully believe that Mr. Leick is using this Agriculture use as an excuse to get a road up there to access his property.
This should be denied.
Susan and Roger Bird
6161 Last Camp Circle
Emigration Oaks
801-699-7700
From:               Sally Simnett
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek agrotourism farm
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 4:53:06 PM




[You don't often get email from sasimnett@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

﻿Dear Ms Baun

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and I would like to submit my objection to the proposed agrotourism farm in
Freeze Creek.

My objections are many and are as follows

1. Emigration Oak residents rely upon well water.
We do not have access to city water and when our well is run dry several hundred residents will have no water
supply. As a community we monitor to health of our Well, both consumption and toxins detrimental to our health
that are released into it.
As the proposed farm will be built above our Well all chemicals, pesticides and animal byproduct will be released
into our water supply in large amounts. This is unacceptable.
The proposed farm will be grazing livestock on this land. As such water consumption will increase exponentially.
Livestock will be drinking large amounts of water, crops and grass will require large amounts of water, visitors in
large to said farm will need water. This water consumption is not sustainable on this Well.
Residents of the Oaks need water to survive as do the livestock taken up to this property. What is the outcome for all
when the Well is run dry?

2. Emigration Oaks residents protect our homes and land from wildfire.
Every year we make great efforts to avoid a wildfire disaster. As a community we remove dead trees and understory,
we keep our roadsides clear and discourage cars from parking on dead grasses at the roadside for fear of catalytic
converter fire.
We try very hard.
It is my fear that building barns, keeping straw and animal feed therein will increase our wildfire risk. Car parking
visitors on unpaved land could spark a fire. Also visitors who arrive may well throw down a smoldering cigarette
butt. Then we have a disaster.

3. Emigration Oaks residents protect our lands from non native plant species
As a community we remove and eradicate non native invasive plant species from our community property. We have
a weed committee and pay our teenagers to pull those weeds.
Last year we were awarded a grant from the city to plant native pollinator plants, that is at freeze creek.
The proposal at the farm is to plant hundreds on non native plants and trees on the property. How many of those will
become invasive to the ecosystem of the Oaks?
This year I believe the city of Salt Lake paid to have the invasive Myrtle Spurge eradicated from Cottonwood
canyon. Why would we knowingly allow the introduction of a non native species which will become a problem.

4. Emigration Oaks residents maintain their roadways yearly
The HOA funds we pay are used to maintain and repair our roadways. As such they are without potholes.
With them influx of heavy farm equipment and hundreds of visitors to this farm our roads will be damaged very
quickly. Who will be paying for the repairs caused by this insult of heavy usage?
Our speed limit is 25mph will that be respected or will we now have have traffic speeding along our peaceful
residential roads.

5. We live in Emigration Oaks because we enjoy the peaceful nature of the environment
We live alongside resident wildlife peacefully and with respect. We protect our wildlife and make effort to destroy
their habitat.
It is my concern that the visitors to this commercial business will not respect our speed limit. They will not stop
their car for wildlife crossing.
In our canyon we have flocks of wild turkeys, moose, deer, quail, coyote and bears all,of which cross our roads
frequently how many will now be slaughtered by a speeding tourist?

6. We live in harmony with our wildlife
Emigration Oaks has an ecosystem of wildlife which we strive to support and live at peace with.
We know that many large predators live in our woods but we leave them unmolested. This is their home that we
share. As such we keep our pets safe and do not leave food enticement near to our homes.
When this farm has livestock and food sources it will become a lure for our predators looking for food. When
coyotes and wild cats hunt the livestock this landowner will start to kill the resident wildlife.
Why are we allowing a farm to be built where the livestock cannot be protected? We are allowing a wildlife conflict
to occur. Everywhere in this world environmentalists are looking for ways to avoid wildlife conflict and yet here we
are knowingly allowing it to happen.

Thank you for taking the time to read all of my concerns, I do hope that you will take them into consideration.
Please vote against this farm, we love our wild lands up here and strive to protect its wild environment.

Yours Sincerely
Sally Simnett
September 26, 2025


Diana Baun
City Recorder Emigration Canyon City
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700

Subject: Opposition to Development Application

Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,

As a resident of Emigration Canyon, I am quite alarmed by the application to designate 40
acres of land in Freeze Creek into an Agricultural Protection Area. While the term itself may
sound rather innocuous, this designation is merely the ﬁrst step in a series of highly
aggressive and dangerous development tactics by the applicant.

The address of the property, 1475 Pinecrest Canyon Road, is a little misleading, as there is
no realistic way to provide vehicular access via that road. While a trail exists that
approaches the subject property, per the applicant’s own hiking access instructions it
requires you to ‘bushwhack’ to between the trail leading from Pinecrest Canyon Road to the
Freeze Creek trail that is maintained by Emigration Oaks. Due to the remote location of this
landlocked parcel, which is three miles away from Pinecrest Canyon Road, the applicant is
currently suing Emigration Oaks and Salt Lake City Corporation in an attempt to build a new
road from his property that would traverse land owned by Salt Lake City and Emigration
Oaks and connect into Pioneer Fork Road, a private road owned and maintained by
Emigration Oaks. This would effectively render our private road public, taking it away from
the community and its residents who help pay for its maintenance, and crowding it with the
traffic related to his industrial farming and agritourism operations. When the owner
purchased the property he was well aware that the parcel was landlocked and inaccessible
by road, and the price of the property reﬂected this reality. The value of the property would
likely be increased by 20-50 times what the applicant paid for it should he succeed in his
legal efforts and secure vehicular access to his speculative development; however, that
ﬁnancial win for the applicant would come at the cost of the entire Emigration Oaks
community, and would have negative impacts for canyon residents as a whole.

The development of a commercial farm on this property presents several threats to the
residents of Emigration Canyon. The entire subject parcel is located within the Ground
Water Source Protection Management of Emigration Improvement District’s Upper Freeze
Creek wells as deﬁned in Salt Lake County Ordinance Section 9.25 – Water Source
Protection. The applicant’s site design documents, prepared by Backyard Abundance,
describe the use of pigs, goats, cattle, chickens, and geese on the property, as well as the
use of manure for fertilization. It is fairly self-evident that these activities are not
compatible with the goal of water source protection.
Perhaps more alarming is the increased ﬁre risk associated with this development.
Emigration Canyon is among the areas at greatest risk of wildﬁres nationwide due to its
status as a wildland urban interface zone and its arid climate. Although the applicant is
currently performing some light agricultural activities on the site such as beekeeping and
harvesting of wild berries, the planned agricultural activities laid out in the application
would involve much more heavy farm equipment and would elevate ﬁre ignition risks
beyond those of the surrounding residential community. While I have not seen the property
since it was purchased by the applicant, other neighbors have described evidence of
“controlled burns” that he has performed on the property, and in an environment such as
ours there is no such thing as a “controlled burn” (or a legal one for that matter).

Finally, the applicant’s evidence of the historical agricultural use of the property should be
taken with a grain of salt. Having grown up in the canyon, on a property bordered by the
sheep trail, and close friends with the Bertagnoles, I was well aware of their family’s
sheepherding heritage (though to be candid I am slightly skeptical that the speciﬁc parcel
in question was used for sheep grazing, given the abundance of more hospitable land
within their homestead). The kinds of impacts that a roving herd of sheep once had on the
land are not comparable to the kinds of impacts that a large modern industrial farming and
agrotourism operation would have. While the letter from Emma Bertagnole may serve a
legal purpose in support of the application, it fails from a common sense perspective to
support a development that is truly without precedent or equal in our canyon. This
proposal is dangerous and I strongly oppose its approval.

Sincerely,



Steven Christensen
5730 E Twin Creek Road
From:              edward ganellen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Drainage
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 8:11:35 AM



   You don't often get email from edward.ganellen@outlook.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Braun, please help protect the Freeze Creek Drainage a small, narrow, and
steep canyon home to Freeze Creek and many wildlife. This is not an are suited for
agriculture. A road would likely destroy the creek, damage the watershed, and disturb
the habitat of many wild creatures. Thank you for your attention.

Edward Ganellen
687 N Donner Hill Circle


Sent from Outlook
From:              Teri Whittenburg
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 5:28:33 PM



   You don't often get email from twhitt85@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,

I am writing to oppose the agritourism project that is being proposed in Freeze Creek. The
project is out of character with the surrounding area and the damage to the natural area that
would be required to create access to this property seem in acceptable to me. Please do not
allow this distribution to our community. The damage to our water source is really concerning
as well.


Sincerely,
Teri Whittenburg
474 N Old Oak Rd
Salt Lake City, UT
84108
From:              Chris Latour
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:37:34 AM



   You don't often get email from latourc1948@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

To Diana Braun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

Dear Ms. Braun,
I am writing to voice my opposition to the Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area
currently in process.
The person that purchased the subject land did so with full knowledge the lands had no access
and was therefore landlocked. Now he is trying to force access through private property to
benefit himself, not the public good.
Thank you for hearing me out.
Respectfully,
Chris LaTour
8938 Pioneer Fork Rd
Emigration Canyon, Utah 84108
September 25, 2025


Emigration Canyon City Council
c/o Diana Baun
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700
dbaun@msd.utah.gov

Subject: Urgent Opposition to Development Application

Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,

I am writing to express my strong opposition to the pending development application
before the Council. While development disputes often center on issues of developer
proﬁts, neighborhood nuisances, or property values, this particular application presents a
clear and undeniable risk to the safety of our community and environment.

The Paramount Concern: Wildﬁre Risk
This application comes with an extensive list of reasons for denial, but I will focus on the
single issue that most directly impacts the safety of our community, our families, and our
environment: the unacceptable increase in wildﬁre risk.

We have just witnessed the devastating consequences of wildﬁres in places like Paciﬁc
Palisades and Altadena, California. The loss was not only massive in terms of homes,
schools, and entire communities but tragically resulted in the loss of life, with an estimated
death toll of 400+. We cannot allow a similar fate to befall Emigration Canyon.

The data is clear: the wildﬁre risk in Emigration Canyon and the other canyons surrounding
Salt Lake City ranks amongst the highest in the country according to resources such as
wildﬁrerisk.org. Furthermore, discussions with high-level Salt Lake City officials would
reveal an incredibly high level of concern over a similar catastrophic ﬁre event occurring in
our area.

The proposed use introduces a known, heightened danger. It is a fact that agricultural
properties carry a much greater risk of wildﬁre ignition compared to residential properties
due to the presence of chemicals, fuels, pesticides, electrical systems, and machinery.
This risk is compounded by the increased distance from ﬁre department resources
involved in this application. In addition, residents utilizing the adjacent trails have already
witnessed the applicant engaging in concerning behavior, speciﬁcally controlled burns on
the property. While evidence of these actions may have been obscured, an immediate and
thorough inspection of the property may still reveal that these actions have occurred.
This application poses an intolerable threat to the well-being of our residents. I strongly
recommend that the Emigration Canyon City Council reject this proposal, if for no other
reason than to protect our families, our environment, and our lives. The potential cost of
this development, measured in human lives and ecological devastation, far outweighs any
perceived beneﬁt.

Thank you for your time and serious consideration of this critical public safety matter.

Sincerely,



Jason Stock
5730 E Twin Creek Road
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
202.246.9200
jasonstock@gmail.com
From:               Chick!
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze Creek Proposal!
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 3:36:25 PM




[You don't often get email from buehnercharles@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

No! Absolutely not!
The threat to our water in emigration Oaks. Our Privacy policy! Plus all other obvious reasons! Absolutely not! It”s
not right, to change our privacy status either! No! No!

Chick Buehner
Resident of Emigration Oaks since 1995!




Sent from my iPad
From:               Chris Romney
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek trail
Date:               Sunday, September 21, 2025 9:25:59 PM




[You don't often get email from romney.chris@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

We built in Emigration Oaks to enjoy the mountains. An integral part of our experience is the Freeze Creek trail.  
We do not support replacing this with a road.

Chris and Tina Romney
729 Donner Hill Circle.
Sent from my iPhone
From:              John Freed
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:34:12 AM



   You don't often get email from john@jkfreed.com. Learn why this is important

I have lived in Emigration Oaks for 32 years (45 years in the Canyon), and I am adamantly
opposed to the application for an Agricultural Protection Area. The damage to the area
would be significant, let alone the impact on our water source(s).
Thank you

John Freed
5555 E. Pioneer Fork Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
Office (801) 582-3531
Cel (801) 560-7591
jkfreed@msn.com
From:              Amy Taylor
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Freeze Creek, Emigration Canyon APA application
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 5:36:03 PM



   You don't often get email from arzk05@msn.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Recorder Baun,
I am a 20 year resident of Emigration Oaks development in Emigration Canyon. I would like to state my
opposition to an “Agricultural Protection Area” (APA) on the Upper Freeze Creek Canyon.
Thank you for your time. -Amy Taylor, 360 N Pioneer Ridge Rd
From:              Bruce Edgar
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Cornelia (Neli) Ulrich
Subject:           Freeze Creek, Emigration Canyon APA application
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 10:24:06 PM



   You don't often get email from bruceaedgar@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dian Baun
City Recorder

9/23/2025

Dear Recoder Baun,

As a local resident of Emigration Canyon metro township, I’d like to state my opposition to
the establishment of an “Agriculttural Protection Area” (APA) on the upper Freeze Creek
canyon just above the Emigration Oaks development. Freeze Creek is a fragile watershed
environment that is enjoyed by many local residents for hiking. I would be a shame if this
natural environment were destroyed by a road installation along the creek or new permanent
structures close to the creek. Please accept my opinion that Salt Lake County/Emigration
Metro Township should not approve any APA application for the Freeze Creek area in
Emigration Canyon. Please preserve this natural watershed recreation and posterity.

Thank you,

Bruce Edgar
__________________________
Bruce A. Edgar
363 N Pioneer Ridge Rd
Salt Lake City
UT 84108-1661

bruceaedgar@gmail.com
801-209-1667
From:               Isabella Tcaciuc
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Freeze creek
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 10:07:57 PM




[You don't often get email from itcaciuc@outlook.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Diana,
I am writing in regards to the creation of a freeze creek agriculture protection area as proposed by Ryan Leick in
regards to his property in freeze creek, emigration canyon.
I and my family completely oppose this request of creating an agricultural protection area for his property or for any
property in this area.
Creating a farm on his property or have any creation of agritourism on his property which is the plan, would
completely disturb the ecosystem of that area of the canyon and possibly the entire canyon. His plan to plant non
native trees have pigs, goats and possibly other animals, building a barn create a place for agritoursm would create a
disturbance in the ecosystem, water pollution of the well and freeze creek and could cause a potential fire hazard. It
is unclear to me how this is even possible as a proposal in a neighborhood and in an already vulnerable canyon
where water and pollution is already a major issue.
So we oppose the creation of the freeze creek agricultural protection area.
Respectfully
Isabella Tcaciuc , Thomas Bosteels
540 north marathon circle
SLC , UT 84108


Sent from my iPhone
From:               Robert Pinon
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Fw: Agricultural Protection Area Application
Date:               Thursday, September 18, 2025 3:08:31 PM
Attachments:        2025.08.31 Agricultural Protection Area in Utah.pdf
                    2025.09.11 Dates and Deadlines.pdf




Get Outlook for iOS

From: Cameron Platt <cameron@utahshieldlaw.com>
Sent: Thursday, September 18, 2025 2:43:23 PM
To: Joe Smolka (jsmolka@emigration.utah.gov) <jsmolka@emigration.utah.gov>; Jennifer Hawkes
<jhawkes@emigration.utah.gov>; Catherine Harris (charris@emigration.utah.gov)
<charris@emigration.utah.gov>; David Brems (brems@ecmetro.org)
<dbrems@emigration.utah.gov>; Robert Pinon (rpinon@emigration.utah.gov)
<rpinon@emigration.utah.gov>
Cc: Polly McLean <polly@peaklaw.net>; Curtis D. Woodward <CDWoodward@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: Agricultural Protection Area Application

Dear Emigration Canyon Council Members,

I am writing to provide you with an overview of the Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
application process, which is currently underway. This explanation is intended to clarify the
steps involved and ensure that you are informed about the process. My apologies that I didn't get
this out earlier.

   1. Proposal Submission: The process begins when landowners submit a proposal to create
      an APA. This proposal must be signed by a majority of the real property owners and
      those owning a majority of the land area in agricultural production within the proposed
      APA. The proposal should include the boundaries of the proposed area, any limits on
      types of agriculture, and details for each parcel, such as owner names and tax parcel
      numbers.
   2. Public Notice and Comment Period: Once the proposal is accepted, a public notice is
      published to inform the community and solicit feedback. This notice must be provided
      for at least 15 days, during which time the public can submit written objections or
      requests for modifications to the proposal. We are currently in this 15-day public
      comment period, which began on September 11, 2025, and will conclude on September
      26, 2025.
   3. Review by Advisory Board and Planning Commission: After the public comment
      period, the proposal, along with any objections or modifications, is sent to the
      County APA advisory board and the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission. These
      bodies have 45 days to submit their reports, which analyze the proposal’s impact on
      local planning policies and recommend whether to accept, modify, or reject the
      proposal.
   4. Public Hearing: Following the 45 day review, a public hearing is scheduled to discuss
      the proposal and the recommendations from the advisory board and planning
      commission. This hearing provides an opportunity for further public input before a final
       decision is made.
    5. Final Decision: The Emigration Canyon Council, will make a final decision to approve,
       modify, or reject the proposal. This item is planned for the Nov. 17, 2025 Council Meeting. The
       decision must be made within 120 days of the proposal submission (Dec. 9, 2025). If no
       action is taken within this period, the proposal is automatically approved.

Please feel free to reach out if you have any questions or require further clarification on any
aspect of the APA application process. I've also included a longer summary of the process and a
timeline for more specific information.

Sincerely,

Cameron Platt

2901 Bluegrass Blvd. Suite 200

Lehi, Utah 84043

(385) 419-1078




This electronic transmission may contain confidential and privileged information. This message is intended only for the use of the
individual or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is exempt from disclosure under applicable federal or state
law. If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or the employee or agent responsible for delivering the message to the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution, or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this communication in error, please notify us immediately by telephone and destroy the original message you received.
From:              Lisa Albright
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                lisa.cannon.albright@gmail.com; Frederick Albright
Subject:           FW: Proposal for creation of an agricultural protection area - comments
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 10:00:57 AM



   You don't often get email from lisa.cannon.albright@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

  
Dear Diane,
As residents of Emigration Oaks (address 5982 E Pioneer Fork Rd), located close to the
property being discussed, we would like to voice our strenuous objection to the
plans.

   1. The documents provided make it clear that some of the proposed uses of the land
      are currently restricted: agricultural experimental station, apiary, lumber
      processing,…
   2. Apparently, the owner has been doing some activities that are currently restricted.
       This speaks loudly to the likelihood that this owner will not follow rules designed
      for the safety and ecology and watershed integrity of the community in future.
   3. These current restrictions are primarily for drinking water source protection and
      wild fire mitigation and should not be changed.
   4. The proposed use sounds more commercial than agricultural; does that fit
      agricultural designation.
   5. The arguments concerning historical use of the land are ridiculous; it is true of
      virtually all land anywhere in Utah, or even in the U.S. It refers to use 100 years ago
      and is no longer applicable; land use changes. The current land use is private and
      residential and has been for decades. There are no livestock in Emigration Canyon!
      Use of a letter written 50 years ago discussing what happened 125 years ago is
      irrelevant.
   6. There is virtually no discussion in the proposal of access to the property.
       Presumably many roads will have to be built. Many people will need access. There
      will be lots of traffic. This will disturb the protected land, and increase the
      exposure of the current inhabitants to road traffic, people traffic, noise, water
      issues, fire issues, etc.
   7. There is discussion not only of agricultural activity but of GUESTS coming to see
      his experimental station..are these day-guests? Will this be expanded to longer-
      term guests? Troubling. Certainly any guest will increase traffic and will lead (in a
      PRIVATE COMMUNITY) to excess exposure to non residents who will be
      trespassing.
   8. Will this proposal remove the PRIVATE designation to Emigration Oaks, which
      specifies no trespassing? That is not an acceptable change to individuals who
     purchased here for privacy.
  9. We did not see details on water use but worry that such use will be high and will
     affect the water supply for the already established community.
 10. Is there any evidence that what is proposed could be sustainable or make income
     longer term, or will we be left with an unfinished project?
 11. There is no discussion of impact to current hiking trails and access to the
     community.
 12. Do we have any evidence that maple trees can grow at the proposed altitude?

The owner proposes uses that are restricted for a good reason. The area is a quiet
residential area and should stay that way.

This proposal should be refused and the owner should use the land as appropriate to
current regulations and approvals.

Lisa and Frederick Albright
From:              Terry Keller
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Fwd: 2nd Follow-Up: Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 5:02:57 PM



   You don't often get email from terry.keller4@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I’m writing to voice my concern over this proposal. This individual purchased property, knowing
fully well he was landlocked and now he wants our community to inconvenience ourselves so he can
gain open access. I don’t see how this benefits anyone other than him personally, so it’s nothing
more than selfish financial gain. There’s zero benefit to the residents, so I couldn’t disagree more
with this ridiculous proposal. Thanks.

Apologies for any typos. This response sent from my mobile device.


---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association <Messenger@associationvoice.com>
Date: Thu, Sep 25, 2025 at 11:36 AM
Subject: 2nd Follow-Up: Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
To: <terry.keller4@gmail.com>


Dear Emigration Oaks Owners,

This is a reminder that the deadline to submit your input regarding the application of the Agricultural Protection
Area by Ryan Leich is tomorrow. We are aware that many of you have already submitted your opinions, and we
thank those who have taken the time to do so. If you wish to voice your opinion, please do so by Sept. 26th.

Below is the copy of the information sent out last week:

_____________

_________________

Thank you to those who have already shared input following Wednesday's email regarding the Notice of Proposal
for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area. Your participation is greatly appreciated.

Below are the official resources for your review. These include the application, the notice we received, and all
associated exhibits:

       Proposal and Application Materials




       Official Notice




For additional background, here is the State's definition of an Agricultural Protection Area:
Utah Department of Agriculture – Agricultural Protection Area Overview

Important Deadline

The deadline to submit written comments or objections is September 26th. According to the notice:

       "The proposal is open to public inspection in the office of the Emigration Canyon Recorder (860 E.
       Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah) and is also available on the Emigration Canyon public
       notice website. Any person affected by the establishment of the area may, within 15 days of the
       date of this notice, file with the Council either written objections to the proposal or a written request
       to modify the proposal to exclude land from or add land to the proposed protection area."

Comments, objections, or questions may be submitted directly to:

     Diana Baun
     City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
     dbaun@msd.utah.gov
     (385) 377-9466

     Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun
     PO Box 147700
     Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700

Message from Paul Brown, EOPOA President:

     Some things that people can express concerns about, in their own words, if they want to comment. The
     number of comments matters, not how eloquently they are worded. They shouldn't be word-for-word the
     same, so we're not sending out "model" language that everyone can sign on to.

     Submit a letter or email expressing your main concerns in your own language. Those concerns might include
     the serious impacts on the private roads and character of Emigration Oaks if his request were granted,
     including the planned construction, operation and employee traffic, impacts on water and environment,
     wildfire danger of operations in the canyon, the introduction of non-native plant and animal species, need for
     a road along Freeze Creek to serve the farm and the like.

     (Note that the city would give up zoning authority, ability to control structures (building permits), and eminent
     domain power if this is approved.)

     The Utah statute allowing Agricultural Protection Areas defines agricultural production as meaning production
     for commercial purposes (17--41-101(2)). Crops are useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation
     of profit (41-17-101(10)).


We strongly encourage all members to review the materials, consider the potential impacts, and provide comments
by the deadline above. Your input is vital in ensuring the community's voice is heard.

With gratitude,


Dave Sheffield
On behalf of the EOPOA Board of Directors




 This message has been sent to terry.keller4@gmail.com

 As a subscriber of General Correspondence at Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, we'll periodically send you an email
 to help keep you informed. If you wish to discontinue receiving these types of emails, you may opt out by clicking Safe
 Unsubscribe.
 To view our privacy policy, click Privacy Policy.

 This message has been sent as a service of AssociationVoice, provider of smart Websites for Associations and Management, 1290
 Broadway Suite 1400, Denver, CO 80203. AssociationVoice © 2025. All rights reserved.
From:              Carolyn Lynch
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Fwd: Additional public comment
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 2:52:04 PM



   You don't often get email from carolyn.lynch66@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Carolyn Lynch <carolyn.lynch66@gmail.com>
Date: Wed, Sep 24, 2025 at 2:48 PM
Subject: Additional public comment
To: <dbaun@msd.utah.gov>


I would like to add to my public comment some photos. These Show a sign posted on the
property implying that the property is already an agricultural protected zone. This sign was
posted prior to the close of the public comment period and determination. Photos of piles of
wood and brush which has been felled and not removed from the property which present an
increased risk of wildfire to the surrounding area.
of the syrup collection container which appears to be empty and is not within the boundaries
of the property.
From:              Michelle Oelsner
To:                Michelle Oelsner
Cc:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Fwd: Letter against agrotourism in Emigration Oaks
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:10:36 PM



   You don't often get email from michelleoelsner@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Michelle Oelsner
6231 brigham Fork Cir, Salt Lake City, UT 84108
SLC, 84108
Michelleoelsner@gmail.com


September 26, 2025

Dear Diana-

I am writing to formally express my concern and strong opposition to the proposed
commercial and agrotourism activities being introduced in our neighborhood currently
involving the use of maple trees for syrup production, potential sawmill operations, and other
agricultural expansions.

While I fully support responsible agriculture and education, the scale and nature of this project
raises a number of serious concerns for our community, including but not limited to:


1. Environmental Impact on Trails, Water, and Wildlife

       The potential diversion of creek water, use of the Freeze Creek well, and rainwater
       catchment for commercial-scale operations pose serious threats to our local watershed.
       This could affect not only the environment but also neighboring property owners who
       rely on natural water


2. Road Access and Safety Concerns

       The proposal to open currently private or restricted roads to public access and heavy
       transportation vehicles is deeply troubling. These gravel roads are not equipped for
       industrial traffic and pose safety risks for local residents, including children and
       pedestrians.

       Increased wear and tear on these roads would likely result in a financial burden to the
       township or surrounding property owners.


3. Commercialization of a Residential/Rural Area

       Introducing agrotourism, student programs, and sawmill operations represents a
       dramatic shift from the current use and character of the area.
      Such activities will bring increased noise, traffic, and footfall that disrupt the peace,
      privacy, and lifestyle that residents moved here to enjoy.

      There are valid concerns about trash export, construction, and deforestation from the
      proposed on-site lumber milling and structure-building activities.


4. Water Rights and Overreach

      The use of shared or natural water resources (including the Freeze Creek well and creek
      water) for a private commercial venture could set a troubling precedent. This could lead
      to disputes over water rights and long-term sustainability issues.


5. Use of Public Grants for Private Profit

      While we appreciate the educational goals of a UVU professor, we are concerned that
      the grant funding may be supporting activities that primarily serve private business
      interests under the label of agrotourism or education.


In conclusion, this proposal is not in alignment with the values, zoning, or environmental
stewardship that our township has upheld. It raises significant concerns that must be addressed
with thorough environmental impact assessments, traffic studies, and legal reviews regarding
water use and public access changes.

Please deny any requests to:

      Change road access from private to public for this purpose,

      Divert or utilize natural water resources beyond legal limits,

      Permit commercial sawmill or lumber operations in a residential/agricultural zone,

      Allow agrotourism activities that compromise the integrity and safety of our
      neighborhood.

We hope the board will listen carefully to the voices of the community before making any
decisions that could have lasting consequences.

Sincerely,
Michelle and Andrew Oelsner


PS - sorry for the long email, but this is a huge concern and requires a lot of information.




Sent from my iPhone
From:              Doug Brockmeyer
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Fwd: Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon submitted by Mr.
                   Ryan Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:37:05 PM



   You don't often get email from dlbcasa@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


My apologies, I hit send too early by mistake.
Below is my letter
DB



---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Doug Brockmeyer <dlbcasa@gmail.com>
Date: Fri, Sep 26, 2025 at 1:24 PM
Subject: Re: Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration
Canyon submitted by Mr. Ryan Leick
To: <dbaun@msd.utah.gov>


Dear Ms Baun,

My name is Douglas Brockmeyer, my wife and I have lived in Emigration Oaks for the past 8
years.
We are strongly opposed to Mr. Leick's proposal to create an Agricultural Protection Area in
Freeze Creek Canyon.

Here are our reasons:
-We are enthusiastic, year-round users of the Freeze Creek trail system and surrounding areas.
We deeply appreciate the natural beauty of the area, the wildlife, the native vegetation and the
quiet.
-We watched with dismay when Mr. Leick bought his property, posted signage, and
immediately started making "improvements" in the middle of an otherwise pristine
wilderness-type area, including clearing a pasture, making camp improvements and putting up
an unsightly wood structure.
-We watched with horror when he brought a vehicle and heavy equipment in with a helicopter.
-We scratched our heads when he started harvesting syrup without an agricultural permit,
leaving unsightly plastic tubing drilled into trees year-round. But now we understand why he
did it: to claim "The parcel is in active agricultural use for sugar production (UTAH CODE §
17-41-101)" to support his proposal.
-Here are several other reasons we are terrified that Mr. Leick with permanently scar and alter
the ecosystem in Freeze Creek Canyon: he intends to build several new structures, including a
barn, a lumber mill, a Slovenian bee house, and a large viewing platform. He intends to plant
up to 125 new species of plants, trees and shrubs, many of which are non-native. He intends to
graze pigs, goats and sheep in the maintenance of his farm, with unsightly pens and the
livestock threatening the integrity of our drinking water. He intends to build an illegal and
unsightly road with a bridge to get all of the necessary equipment, to his property. He intends
to invite the public to his Agrotourism farm for profit...all in the middle of a pristine
ecosystem that is heavily used by the Emigration Oaks community.

I don't know what drives a person like Mr. Leick to do these things. But all I can say is that he
will destroy the Freeze Creek ecosystem beyond repair and place permanent scars upon the
landscape. When is enough, enough? As part of the EO community, I am joining others to
take a stand against Mr. Leick's proposal.

Respectfully submitted,

Douglas Brockmeyer MD
dlbcasa@gmail.com
From:              Joan Gallegos
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments in Opposition to Creation of an Agricultural Zone in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:36:31 AM
Attachments:       Comments on Creation of an Agricutlural Zone.docx



   You don't often get email from joan.gallegos2@aol.com. Learn why this is important

Good day Ms.Baun,

Attached to this email are my comments in opposition to the creation of an agriculture
protected zone in Emigration Canyon. I am a resident of the Canyon. Thank you for
consideration of my comments.

My best, Joan Gallegos
336 N. Middle Oak Lane
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
joan.gallegos2@aol.com
September 23, 2025

Ms. Diana Baun

Emigration Canyon City Council

P.O. Box 147700

Salt Lake City, Utah. 84114-7700

Dear Emigration Canyon City Council Members:

I am contacting you today to provide my comments on the Proposal to Create an Agricultural Zone.
I am a resident of Emigration Oaks in Emigration Canyon and have serious concerns about this
proposal. Therefore, I am in opposition to creation of this agricultural zone. My concerns are
outlined below:

   1. Increased Fire Risk – this area is land locked and would pose additional ﬁre risk to
      Emigration Canyon. No ﬁre trucks can access this area.
   2. Transportation to the Proposed Agricultural Zone – this area is land locked and there are no
      roads to transport agricultural materials and waste. Practically, this makes the proposal
      unworkable.
   3. Impact on Freeze Creek Water Supply – The impact on our water supply from the Freeze
      Creeks wells would be greatly compromised. Agricultural, livestock, and human waste
      from this proposed agricultural zone could signiﬁcantly damage our well water quality.
   4. The Proposed Agricultural Land is Not Likely to Yield a Return – As this land is proposed for
      maple syrup production, using existing maple trees vs. sugar maples will not yield proﬁtable
      results. This land is arid, rocky, and at a high elevation which would provide immense
      challenges for agricultural production. From the submitted proposal, I am skeptical this
      property would be suitable for agriculture.
   5. Adverse Impacts to the Quality of the Freeze Creek Trail and Emigration Oaks Subdivision -
      Signiﬁcant damage to the open spaces and trails that this agricultural zone proposal would
      create diminishes the recreational potential for this area.

For these reasons, I am against creation of an agricultural protected zone as described in the
current proposal. Thank you for considering my comments as your review this proposal.

Sincerely,

Joan M. Gallegos

336 N. Middle Oak Lane

Salt Lake City, Utah 84108

joan.gallegos2@aol.com
From:              Justin Haller
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Agricultural Area Proposal
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:59:39 PM
Attachments:       Emigration Oaks proposal concerns.docx



   You don't often get email from justin.haller@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Ms. Baun,

Please find attached my letter detailing my concerns and objections regarding a proposal by
Ryan Leich to create an agricultural area in Emigration Canyon.

Thank you,

Justin Haller
September 26, 2025



Ms. Diana Baun and members of Emigration Canyon City Council,



My name is Justin Haller and I am a homeowner and resident of the Emigration Oaks
community in Emigration Canyon, Utah. I am writing you in response to the proposal to
designate parcel 10-20-400-002 as an agricultural protection area by Mr. Ryan Leich.
Based on my independent review of the proposal and my experience as a resident of the
community directly impacted by this proposal, I ask that you reject this proposal. At its
foundation, this proposal is reckless, disruptive, and not well-intentioned.

The plot of land in this proposal does not have any current road access. In order to execute
this proposal, the land around Freeze Creek would have to be completely disrupted to
create a road or path to accommodate vehicles and construction equipment to create the
proposed structures and land changes for the agricultural area. This would disrupt plants
and animals, violate hiking paths, and generate massive amounts of runoff. It would also
lead to massive increases in road traffic on our private roadways creating safety concerns
for our residents, children, and pets that frequent these areas.

In addition to building a new road, the generation of a new agricultural area would require
deforestation with heavy machinery and reforestation and regrading. This is disruptive to
the natural, local plants and animals. Regardless of the measures used and attempts to
minimize erosion and run-off, these land changes will ultimately have a major impact on
land topography of surrounding areas. The heavy equipment needed to reshape the natural
land also presents a wildﬁre risk in an area that has an inherent elevated risk and would
place homeowners at unnecessary risk for wildﬁre.

Most members of this community have chosen to live in the area due to reduced traffic and
enhanced interaction with nature. This proposal could potentially change that. Even
outside of the immediate changes with construction that are necessary to create the
proposed agricultural area, the presence of this agricultural area changes the everyday
experience for community-members. The increased traffic from employees and visitors to
the agricultural area could have dramatic effects on community-members every day.

Finally, the proposed changes would dramatically affect the water supply of the Freeze
Creek watershed. As we know in Utah, water is a scarce resource. Emigration Canyon is
especially susceptible to shifts in the water supply as the residents are reliant on the local
water supply and aquifers for daily water usage. With the Emigration Oaks at near capacity
and little tolerance in the water supply, the community cannot tolerate diverting water
shares to an agricultural area.

While I generally agree with allowing people an appropriate amount of latitude to use their
personal property, I have to object when decisions or proposals impact other property
owners. This proposal clearly impacts surrounding property owners in a signiﬁcant way
and generates several safety concerns that cannot be adequately mitigated. This proposal
has limited community beneﬁts that do not outweigh the risks. I hope that you will
consider my concerns regarding this agricultural area and reject this proposal. I am happy
to have further discussions on this matter and can be reached at (540)335-4485.



Sincerely,

Justin Haller
From:             Amy Amann
To:               Diana Baun
Cc:               Amy Amann
Subject:          I do NOT support a Freeze Creek Farm in/near Emigration Oaks
Date:             Friday, September 26, 2025 12:39:38 PM



   You don't often get email from amy.amann@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Hello Diana,

This email is to inform you that in NO way do I support a farm on Ryan Leick's Freeze Creek property
in/near Emigration Oaks.

Thank you,

Amy Amann
From:              Graeme Milton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Land use proposal of Robert Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 8:10:04 PM



   You don't often get email from milton2505@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diane Baum,
      I’m an co-owner in Emmigration Oaks (462 Marathon Circle) and am very concerned
about the farm proposal put forward by Robert Leick for his Freeze creek property. My
foremost concern is the agricultural runoff, potentially into our water well. This would be
particularly worrisome if there is
animal waste. Secondly, it sounds like he looks to attract visitors to a viewing platform. I’m
concerned about the added impact and liability of them using our roads. Third the land use
would be out of character of the current land use in the entire emigration canyon, and setting a
precedent now might lead to even further impacts on the water quality in the canyon. Thank-
you for giving this your consideration,

Regards Graeme Milton


Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone
From:              Nancy McLaughlin
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leich Agricultural Protection Area application
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:44 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baun,

I am writing regarding Mr. Ryan Leich’s Agricultural Protection Area application.

This application should be summarily denied.

Mr. Leich purchased this remote parcel at a highly-discounted price given its
remote location, pristine nature, and lack of access. He is now seeking to cash in on
his minimal “investment” by creating a means of access.

His proposed uses of the parcel, including but not limited to the construction of a
new road and bridge through pristine land and public access, would be extremely
detrimental to the public interest. The extraordinary damage to water quality,
scenic values, native species of plants, and critical wildlife habitat is reason enough
to deny this application. When you add to that the incalculable harm to the public
from increased in wildfire danger (Emigration Canyon is considered to be at
“Extreme Risk” for wildfire, making it one of the most dangerous canyons in Utah
for this hazard), it is simply a “no-brainer” to deny this application.

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on this application.

Nancy A. McLaughlin
From:              Matthew A. Steward
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                megan shigeoka
Subject:           Leich Application for Creation of Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 2:07:46 PM



   You don't often get email from mas@clydesnow.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun –
We are residents of Emigration Canyon (specifically emigration oaks) and are writing to
express our concern about Mr. Leich’s proposal

   1. Mr. Leich is not, and has not, operated in good faith. He purchased this land locked
       parcel with full knowledge that he did not have access. In fact, he inquired about access
       prior to purchase and was told there was not access.
   2. He has continually trespassed on the land of EOPOA and EID without permission – after
       being told he did not have permission.
   3. He has made material misrepresentations about his use of private property to transport
       materials to build unpermitted structures.
   4. His proposed commercial agricultural operation would negatively impact wildlife, water
       protection, and increase wildfire risk.
   5. His proposal is ostensibly for agricultural use but this is a ruse. His actual goal is to
       develop the property for residential purpose. He has already built a “treehouse.”

Thank you for your consideration.
Matthew Steward and Megan Shigeoka (5290 E. Pioneer Fork Rd.)
From:              Mark Gibson
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leick Agricultural Area Proposal, Freeze Creek, Emigration Canyon
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:29:42 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baum:

I have lived in Emgration Canyon for 20 years

I understand Ryan Leick to be proposing an “Agriculural Protection Area” a bit above
6000 feet elevation in the Freeze Creek Drainage in Emigration Canyon. At this point in
it's course the Freeze Creek lies in a steeply sloped defile. The terrain in this area is
mostly precipitous slopes with rock outcrops, with very little gently sloped land
surrounding the Creek itself. The proposed area lies at the nexus of a major fault
slipping Twin Creek Limestone south of Nugget Sandstone, and a there is a recent major
land slump on steep slopes on the north side of this area that nearly reached the
proposed project site with debris. The entire drainage and its surrounds are wild country,
hosting abundant wildlife and native trees and flora. The watershed is pristine. This area
is in the heart of a broad swath of land used by bow hunters, hikers, back country skiers,
and wildlife watchers

This plan would disrupt a wild place. Its shallow soils and narrow confines would not
allow for mitigation of animal wastes entering the unspoiled Freeze Creek watershed.
Beyond contamination and disruption of the ecology of this stream, contamination will
proceed into Emigration Creek. Moreover, there are several points of culinary water
usage in the drainage at risk from agricultural activities. Even ordinary human use of the
property would require an extensive, disupting ,mound-type septic system on the rocky,
shallow soils, and adequate set-back of such from the stream would appear doubtful.

Constructing a road to this location would be difficult. It would have to travel close to
the stream, further disrupting the stream and its habitat.

Beyond these rather obvious ecologic, watershed and recreational insults is the
observation that a person visiting this site would struck by how markedly the proposed
agricultural scheme far-fetched, fraught, and out of character with its environs.

I urge denial of the “Agricultural Protection Area” designation for the Ryan Leick property
on Freeze Creek. I would also urge that that any ruling on this matter include
considerations of feasibility of Mr. Leick's projected use after on-site inspection of Mr.
Leick's property. The input of a hydrogeologist would seem important.



Thank you for hearing my concerns.
Sincerely,

Mark Gibson

5534 East Pioneer Fork Road

Salt Lake City, UT 84108

mark.gibson@hsc.utah.edu
From:              Kate Thayn
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leick agroforestry proposal
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:38:40 AM



   You don't often get email from kate.thayn1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello -

I am writing to state my objection to allowing Mr. Leick to create an agricultural protection
area on Pinecrest canyon road. I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and am concerned that his
planned activities will harm our water source and lead to increased wildfire risk.
Thank you,
Kate Thayn
From:              Melinda McAnulty
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Leick property agricultural designation
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 9:34:02 AM



   You don't often get email from mindyjmac@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

To Whom It May Concern,
I am a resident of Emigration Oaks and I am against Mr. Leick changing his land designation to an
agricultural protection area. The result of this designation will ultimately be creation of a road up a
wilderness canyon right next to Freeze Creek, which at this time is a fragile ecosystem. The likely
result will be pollution of Freeze Creek and possible death of the creek due to overuse of water
directly out of the creek (which is happening now). My other concern is the proximity of this land to
Emigration Canyon’s major well (Upper Freeze Creek Well) which supplies the lion’s share of water
to hundreds of residents in our canyon. His 40 acres is within 1/2 mile of this well system. This
designation could result in contamination of this well water due to close proximity of pesticides,
animal feces, septic tanks, etc.

Regards,
Melina McAnulty, M.D.
From:              Kim Evason
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Letter in Opposition to Proposed Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 9:02:17 PM



   You don't often get email from kimevason@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun:

I am writing to express my strongest opposition to this proposal for creation of an Agricultural
Protection Area:

File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks. I regularly run and hike on Freeze Creek Trail, which travels
directly adjacent to this parcel. Since Mr. Leick took ownership of this parcel, he has been
developing it--building structures that look like blown-up versions of what my 7-year-old
makes out of discarded boxes and other trash.

Mr. Leick’s activities on this land are a fire hazard and an eyesore. The problem will certainly
get worse if this parcel is designated an Agricultural Protection Area.

Thanks very much for your consideration.

Sincerely,

Kimberley J. Evason
5455 E Pioneer Fork Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:              Dell Dunn
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Mountainside agricultural protection area comment
Date:              Wednesday, September 17, 2025 10:29:22 PM



   You don't often get email from delldunn@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

 File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage:
40 acres) Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. Underlying Zone: FR-20  

I would like to express the strongest opposition to Mr Liecks application. The proposal is
frankly ridiculous for the following reasons:
1) It is a mountainside with poor quality soil. I would ask what other farms exist on
Utah mountainsides?
2) He has no water rights to draw from Freeze Creek and the township is reliant on the creek
flow to recharge our spring fed water supply. He is likely currently drawing water from the
creek illegally since there is currently no other water supply to his isolated property.
3) He has no road access to his property. The only access has been by foot (unauthorized
through the Emigration Oaks community) or helicopter which has been a public nuisance.

I live along Freeze Creek in the Emigration Oaks community and we are reliant on wells
recharged from the creek that could be placed at risk by this development. Our community
greenspace would also be significantly harmed by this development.

The application seems to be a way for Mr Lieck to circumvent widespread local opposition to
development of his isolated property along Freeze Creek and force the Emigration Oaks
community to allow him to build a new road through community preserved greenspace
to develop his property.

Please reject this application for the waste of everyone's time that it is.

sincerely,

Dell Dunn
delldunn@gmail.com
From:              Lanna Cairns
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           No farm up emigration.
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:25:03 AM



   You don't often get email from lannacairns1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Good day,

Please listen to the people who live here. we don’t want it.

Lanna
Lanna Lee Cairns




“Our time should be devoted to knowing the Truth that sets humanity free from the problem of
ignorance; that Truth which alone can bring enlightenment to the world, that war should
cease, that people should live together in harmony because they have recognized the Divinity
within each other.”  Dr. Ernest Holmes
www.lannaleecairns.com
801-541-2490
From:              Dan Whittenburg
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           No Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 1:05:36 PM



   You don't often get email from danwhittenburg@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Diana,
No farm, pigs, goats, sheep etc. above our well! No Agrotourists in our roads.
Very opposed to this.
Dan Whittenburg
From:              Patrick Lawrence
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           No on Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:16:50 PM



   You don't often get email from patrickalawrence@msn.com. Learn why this is important

Hi Diana,

I am writing to express my opposition to the creation of an Agricultural Protection Are in
Emigration Oaks.

       The introduction of non-native plant species has already created a blight in the
       community (myrtle spurge being most prominent). More species planted in the area
       could result in greater proliferation of unwanted and potentially harmful vegetation.
       Grazing livestock and the resulting waste produced has the potential to be extremely
       detrimental to a vital water source for EO residents.
       It should go without saying, but a commercial development should not be allowed in an
       area that has been zoned for residential living and land preservation.
       Grazing = increased likelihood of erosion and diminished air quality in the canyon.
       Allowing the public to access EO roads will make it less safe for pedestrians on foot or
       on bikes. It could also result in more wildlife related accidents as non-residents are
       unlikely to be mindful of the prevalence of deer and other animals in the community.
       the driving habits of some EO residents already make the roads less safe than they
       should be.
       The impact of construction in the area will be detrimental to wildlife.
       The general waste and potential chemical exposure to plant and animal species in the
       canyon resulting from a commercial operation could have a harmful impact on the local
       ecosystem.

This is a horrible idea out forth by a selfish individual. I strongly oppose it.

Patrick Lawrence
5653 E. Pioneer Fork Rd
From:              Jaymison Petersen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           NO to APA for 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:45:43 PM



   You don't often get email from jaymisonp@mac.com. Learn why this is important

G
﻿ ood afternoon,

Let me begin by stating that I am appalled by the fact that the property up Freeze Creek could
be turned into a grazing area for pigs, goats and sheep. How will he handle it when his animals
are threatened by the natural predators in the canyon? Will they invite more predators to our
backyards?

Mr Leick not only wants access to the upper freeze creek well to water his non-native crops &
animals, but he also wants to graze those animals in an area that could potentially pollute that
water designated for the Emigration Canyon residents??? Water is such a struggle up here
already & it’s only getting worse. We are already fighting many types of non-native &
invasive plants every spring and he now wants to introduce more?

His intended road & bridge to allow for the delivery of animals, supplies, equipment, etc. is
ridiculous! Adding Agritourism visitors into the mix to trample all over the trails up there and
leave their waste of every kind in our watershed area is extremely dangerous. The sign he has
already posted regarding his Agritourism business leads me to believe that he intends to make
this land very public. How many ways does he want to ruin Freeze Creek? This all seems like
such a nightmare, the more I research, the more I fear this man and his economic dreams.

He purchased a landlocked property and is now trying to bully his way into a pristine canyon
to pollute and develop such a beautiful area that would’ve remained untouched if it weren’t for
him. I truly cannot believe that one man could be allowed to disrupt the basic water
necessities, lives, and enjoyment of so many of us living up here in Emigration Canyon.
Hiking freeze creek every day brings me so much joy, I cannot imagine losing that, ever.
Please help us to prevent this from happening. Mr Leick needs to develop his family farm
elsewhere and leave us in peace. Or at least leave Emigration Oaks a private, peaceful
neighborhood, like it’s been for decades past.

Sincerely,
The Petersens
6228 E Brigham Fork Circle
From:               leanne@lonetree.com
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            non existent agricultural protection zone Emigration Canyon
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 2:15:33 PM



   You don't often get email from leanne@lonetree.com. Learn why this is important


I am writing in regard to the proposed zoning change to agricultural protection zone. This change must not be
allowed since it would have a severe effect on both wildlife and humans who live here. My property would be
severely affected since I live at 6101 Pioneer Fork road which is just above Freeze Creek and adjacent to to the
access trail used for well management and hiking and proposed for farming access. This is currently a private trail
on Emigration Oaks property.  While the trail has been upgraded to allow management of the well that serves the
community, this access is NOT a road and NOT open to any vehicles. The natural vegetation is dry a large part
of the year and could easily fuel a fire if the wrong vehicles or people were to enter the area. My home would be
at high risk in the event of fire since it is directly adjacent to the proposed "road" or agricultural protection access.
There is NO agriculture in this location currently and the land being claimed for agricultural protection has only
ever been used for hiking. Agricultural use would significantly change the character of this land and it would
require a right of way over property owned by the Emigration Oaks community.  

I regularly hear coyotes yipping and howling in the late evenings, and I drive with caution knowing there are many
deer roaming freely along with wild turkey, moose, pheasant and rabbits in the area. This area is important wildlife
habitat that must be treated with care. Farming is not friendly to wildlife. I chose to live in this location since, like
my neighbors, I value the long term benefits of a quiet, like minded community, protection for wildlife, open space,
and clear air. Any agricultural use or zoning would open the gates for additional agriculture and bring toxic
pesticides and herbicides, odors, pollution, noise, vehicles, machinery, risk of wildfire and more to the area. It
would significantly affect our property values and the way of life that brought us to this community. It would also
increase the cost for fire protection and water conservation.  

I ask that you protect our way of life, property values, safety and more by not allowing any agricultural
access.   There is no precedent for this use.  

Leanne Brandt
6101 Pioneer Fork Road, 84108
From:              Peggy Q
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 10:56:18 AM



   You don't often get email from pquinlivan@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


I think this Notice is an overwhelming amount of information for Ryan Leick’s business.  

There are several issues that make no sense.

1. Page 14 of 140 of 09-11-2025 Leick - Citiworks APA_Exhibits_Leick - 20250811.pdf

Paragraph 5

Water rights are not yet assigned to Freeze Creek property ownership.  

Shouldn’t that have been taken care of BEFORE he even bought the property?



2. According to Utah Code Effective 5/7/2025 17-41-101 in reference to APA
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17/Chapter41/17-41-S101.html#:~:text=(10),(b)

(10)"Crops, livestock, and livestock products" includes:
(a)land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of
   profit, including:

   (i)

   forages and sod crops;

   (ii)

   grains and feed crops;

   (iii)

   livestock as defined in Section 59-2-102;

   (iv)

    trees and fruits; or
(i)forages and sod crops;
(ii)grains and feed crops;
(iii)livestock as defined in Section 59-2-102;
(iv)trees and fruits; or
(v)vegetables, nursery, floral, and ornamental stock;

Where is the business plan for this endeavor? Who reviews this ?
3. Beehives….

Are you aware there are black bears in Emigration Canyon?? They love honey.



4. Based on the site plan in this proposal it is not defined how the equipment and materials
needed will be delivered to the site without using private roads. Access to the site via already
established private roads should NOT be allowed. Why should established rights be given up
for someone’s business ? Why wasn’t this figured out BEFORE the property was purchased?

Use the public road instead ….Pinecrest Road.
From:              Lowell Keith
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Victoria Tiase
Subject:           Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:40:27 PM



   You don't often get email from lowell.keith@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

To: Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon


Regarding the proposal to designate parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural Protection Area,
we are homeowners with Emigration Oaks and have serious concerns about the proposal.

Emigration Oaks is a quiet, tranquil, residential area. The construction and operation of a
commercial enterprise would adversely affect the day to day life of all residents.

The private roads through Emigration Oaks are narrow and not designed for commercial
traffic. The roads are often used by residents walking with children or pets. This would
become dangerous with commercial traffic and construction equipment. Additionally,
commercial traffic would increase wear and tear on the roads which are maintained by the
HOA.

The proposed area is within a watershed which provides drinking water to residents of
Emigration Canyon. Adding a commercial operation at the proposed site could increase stress
on the water supply as well as increase potential for contamination.

A commercial operation at the proposed location could also increase wildfire exposure which
would not only increase the risk to safety and residential property, but could also negatively
impact residential insurance availability in the area.

This is a decision that cannot easily be reversed to the extent there are resulting detrimental
impacts.

We urge you to avoid the negative impacts to Emigration Canyon and deny the proposal.

Respectfully,
Lowell Keith & Victoria Tiase
465 N Marathon Circle
From:              John Buhler
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 4:34:23 PM



   You don't often get email from jtbuhler@outlook.com. Learn why this is important

Date: 9/20/2025


To: Diana Baun - City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
SUBJECT: PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN
AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA                          
Dear Ms. Baun,
I am writing to express my concerns and objection to the request for the
establishment of an Agricultural Protection Area as outlined in the public notice
sent out to homeowners within the Emigration Canyon area. The establishment
of said property for agricultural purposes, in my opinion, will put an additional
strain on limited area resources (i.e., water, roads, environment) as well as
require the access and use of private roads to enter said property for its
operation.
Additionally, this proposal will inevitable further increase traffic on the Canyon
Road, which is already congested given the volume of use via homeowners and
recreationists. If we are to add farming equipment and commercial vehicles for
crop transport to this make-up, the character and beauty of the area will be
negatively impacted.


Regards,


John T Buhler
6170 E Last Monument Cir.
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
( 949-421-8480 | * jtbuhler@outlook.com


 This e-mail may contain confidential or proprietary materials for the sole use of the intended
recipient. Any review, use, distribution or disclosure by others is strictly prohibited. If you are not
the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and delete all copies.
From:              Karen Eilbeck
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Dave Sheffield
Subject:           OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-
                   20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 4:29:39 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk


RE: File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest
Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

To the Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council, Care of Diana Baun,

I am writing to oppose the request to create an Agriculture Protection Area for Parcel
Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres) Road. Such a change would have severe and
lasting consequences for residents of Emigration Oaks, Emigration Canyon and
importantly, the environment.

The neighborhood of Emigration Oaks relies on private roads that cannot handle
construction vehicles, farm equipment, or employee traffic. Beyond traffic concerns, farm
operations would change the quiet character of the neighborhood and create unacceptable
safety risks, particularly wildfire hazards. Freeze Creek is the water source for Emigration
Oaks and beyond, such as for those in Margarithe Lane. There is also the annual risk of
Spring flooding to take into consideration, especially with the potential downstream impacts
from a farm. The fragile water system, already under pressure, would face new demands
and possible contamination.

Additionally, the introduction of non-native plant or animal species could disrupt local
ecosystems, and the need for a service road along Freeze Creek would permanently scar
the landscape. This is a pristine riparian creek, used as a corridor for wildlife. I have seen
moose, deer, and bobcats using this corridor and know from my neighbors that mountain
lions are also around, although I have not witnessed one yet. The community of Emigration
Oaks has a very active native plant and weed group that spends the Spring and Summer
months on education and invasive plant action. This is a community that cares deeply
about the native Utah habitat. The impacts from developing this natural area are
incompatible with the purpose and spirit of Emigration Canyon as a residential and natural
refuge.

I also want to add that this individual purchased this property knowing that it was
landlocked. The attempts to force an agricultural classification by tapping a few trees
seems very disingenuous, and makes me wonder what the real intent is.

For these reasons, I strongly urge you to deny the proposal.

Sincerely,

Karen Eilbeck
6002 Pioneer Ridge Circle
Emigration Canyon
84108
From:              Matt Hobson-Rohrer
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to agricultural easement request for Freeze Creek canyon
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:44:14 AM



   You don't often get email from hobsonrohrer@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana,


To the Township and County:

I am writing to object to the proposed agricultural easement request for
Freeze Creek Canyon. As a former property owner in Emigration Canyon
and a long-time user of the Freeze Creek trail, I have the following
concerns regarding continued development:

Fire Risk: Development increases the risk of wildfires in the canyon. Who
will be held liable for potential property damage?

Water Quality: There is a potential for pollution in the watershed that the
Freeze Creek drainage feeds.

Wildlife Impact: The potential impacts on local wildlife have not been
addressed.

I urge you to consider these important points before making a decision.


Matt

Matthew Hobson-Rohrer
hobsonrohrer@gmail.com
(801) 831-5105
From:              Kellie Risser
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           OBJECTION to Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 8:34:30 PM



   You don't often get email from krisser@laneandco.net. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms Diana Baun,

I am writing to you to strongly OBJECT to the Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural
Protection Area in Emigration Canyon made by Ryan Leick.

I moved to the Emigration Oaks neighborhood 2 ½ years ago after an extensive search for
a home in Utah. The Emigration Canyon and the Oaks neighborhood are a special
community. I fell in love with this neighborhood because of the forestry with wildlife and
native plants that can be enjoyed by me and my neighbors. The people who live in this
community live here because we love the private hiking trails that we maintain. I hike in
my neighborhood, typically in Upper Freeze Creek almost every day with my faithful
companion, a chocolate labrador. With the approval of Mr. Leick’s proposal, this hike
would no longer be accessible to us. In addition, this proposal will result in several
threats to our community if approved.

   1. Increase threat of forest fires. The proposal calls for heavy equipment that would
      surely be a much added risk to an already “at risk” neighborhood. Our community
      works tirelessly to reduce this risk of fires. Our community would no longer feel
      safe knowing that an agricultural production facility would be operating nearby,
      negating our efforts.
   2. Impact on the private roads within our neighborhood that we pay for and maintain
      through our HOA dues. The increased traffic through our neighborhood would
      cause a deterioration in our roads and additional risk to our safety.
   3. Impact on our wildlife and native plants. On my daily walks, I often spot moose,
      deer, coyotes, etc. Even today, I spotted several new plants that I had not seen in
      the prior 1,000 or so walks I have taken through Upper Freeze Creek. This proposal
      would change the landscape of our community.
   4. Reduction in hiking trails. Me and my neighbors utilize our hiking trails, especially
      those that Mr. Leick is proposing to change to a road for his access. Why would we
      take these trails away to benefit one person?
   5. Changing this land to a water shed area would restrict our community from
      enjoying outdoor recreation with our family pets.
   6. Negative impact on the air and water cleanliness.
Mr. Leick purchased his 40 acre parcel with the full understanding that it did not have
road access. If he wanted to build an agricultural center, he should have purchased a
different parcel.

Why make so many people suffer and put the safety of us all in jeopardy for one person’s
benefit? How could one person’s desire to build a road to his property ruin the reactional
benefits of a private neighborhood enjoyed by so many people be even considered?
There are many parcels of land in Utah that Mr. Leick could purchase to build an
agricultural area, but there is only ONE Emigration Canyon. Please preserve it.

Sincerely,

Kellie Risser
Marathon Circle, Emigration Oaks
From:              Annette Macintyre
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Rob MacLeod; Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association
Subject:           Objection to Agricultural Protection Area near Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 3:40:18 PM



   This sender might be impersonating a domain that's associated with your organization. Learn why this could be a
   risk

Dear Ms. Baun:

As a concerned home owner in Emigration Oaks, I am writing to object strongly to Ryan
Leick’s Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in our immediate vicinity.
See File # OAM 2025 – 001470.

My concerns regarding the Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area are as follows:

1. There would be enormous potential for a negative Environmental Impact, esp
contamination of Freeze Creek and our precious ground water by fertilizers, farm animal
waste and the introduction of non-native plants and animals.
2. Wildfire danger would certainly increase esp. without in/out access for fire fighting
equipment and crews.
3. An access road would have to be built along Freeze Creek, destroying one of the
most popular, local hiking trails/areas
4. Increased traffic through Emigration Oaks for construction, operation and employee
traffic would destroy the tranquility of the area and cause increased upkeep costs for
our roads.
5. It would irreversibly alter the Character of Emigration Canyon and particularly that
of Emigration Oaks. Emigration Canyon and Emigration Oaks does not have any other
agricultural areas. Most of it is purely residential with access for all to recreate and enjoy
being outdoors. Emigration Oaks specifically is a peaceful residential area where people
live to enjoy nature, the proximity to wildlife/birds and the tranquility that comes from
living outside of the city.

These are just some of the reasons why this Proposal needs to be rejected. I am sure
there are many more and I hope the Powers that be will agree!!

Sincerely,
Annette MacIntyre

Annette MacIntyre MD, FRCPC
449 Marathon Circle
Salt Lake City, Utah, 84108
USA
385 445 3162
Annette.macintyre@utah.edu
From:              Steven Fenton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Agricultural Protection Area Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 1:43:02 PM



   You don't often get email from stevenfenton40@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I would like to file an objection to the application by Ryan Leick regarding parcel number 10-
20-400-002 seeking to establish an Agricultural Protection Area.


I have lived near the proposed parcel for over 20 years and have hiked through it multiple
times every year for that 20 years. This parcel is on very steep terrain in the upper reaches of
the Freeze Creek drainage. It is largely dry, rocky and without access to water or public roads.
My objections are as follows:

1. This parcel has never had agricultural production. During the 20 years I have been over
and around this parcel it has never been used for agriculture of any kind. The applicant
claims various agricultural uses for this property but such a claim is without merit. The fact
that sheep crazy in the early 1900's in Emigration Canyon is hardly evidence that it was ever
conducted on applicants' parcel.

2. This Parcel is not conducive to future agricultural production. As previously mentioned,
this property is dry, rocky and steep. Most of the ground is too steep to hike, let alone
operate any kind of Agricultural operation. Furthermore, the applicant has no access to water
which would be necessary to actually be productive.

3. Applicant has no access to this parcel of property. There is no road or even two wheel
track to the property. There is a hiking trail that crosses private as well as forest service
property. Applicant does not explain how he will conduct an agricultural business on this
parcel of property without access. Applicant has used a helicopter to air drop some items to
his property but this is hardly a viable option for a productive agricultural operation.

Finally, it is my belief that the applicant has not filed this application in good faith and instead
is using it in an attempt to influence his ongoing litigation with the Emigration Oaks Property
Owners Association. This application should be rejected.

Thank you for your consideration of this matter.

Sincerely,

Steven L. Fenton
From:              Margaret Van Meter
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to creating an Agricultural Protection Area (OAM2025-001470)
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 8:24:26 PM



   You don't often get email from margaret.vanmeter@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun and City Council Members,

I am writing as a nearby resident to object to the proposed Agricultural Protection Area
designation referenced in filing OAM2025-001470. I live within a third of a mile of the Freeze
Creek Trail and within a mile of the parcel in question.

I respectfully ask the Council to deny this application for the following reasons:

           This property is very remote, with no legal road access. Any agricultural operation
           would inevitably increase pressure for vehicle traffic and new road construction
           through Freeze Creek. That would permanently alter the quiet character of the trail
           and introduce noise and disruption into an area that many of us use for peaceful
           recreation.
           The parcel sits in steep, heavily wooded terrain between Emigration Canyon and Red
           Butte Canyon. Activities associated with farming, agroforestry, or ranching—burn
           permits, equipment use, or simply increased human activity—would raise the risk of
           wildfire in a place where emergency access is nearly impossible. Our neighborhood is
           already vulnerable, and adding to that danger feels irresponsible.
           Activities on this land impact our community's drinking water. My family and many
           of our neighbors depend on our wells for drinking water. Agricultural-associated
           fertilizers, composting, or runoff from land clearing could put that shared water
           supply at risk.
           From what I have seen, I worry this request is less about farming and more about
           securing legal protections that would make future development easier. If Agricultural
           Protection Area status is granted, it would remove important local controls. I don’t
           think it is appropriate for land that is so difficult to access and so sensitive to
           development.
           I'm not an expert on it, but it seems this application works against the rules within the
           Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone that are meant to protect our canyons and our
           neighboring regions.

Thank you for your consideration. Protecting the safety, peace, and natural resources of Freeze
Creek for our community should take priority over this application.

Margaret Van Meter
6264 E Brigham Fork Circle
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:              David McNally
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                McNally Nancy
Subject:           Objection to Creation of Agricultural Protection Area - File OAM2025-001470
Date:              Saturday, September 20, 2025 4:23:55 PM
Attachments:       McNally_Objection_to_Proposed_Agricultural_Protection_Area_092025.pdf



   You don't often get email from dmcnally@nexsprout.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,

As residents of the Emigration Oaks subdivision of Emigration Canyon, please find attached
our formal objection to the creation of an agricultural protection area, as outlined in
File OAM2025-001470.

Please feel free to contact me or my wife Nancy directly regarding this matter.

Sincerely,

David McNally

dmcnally@nexsprout.com
mobile: (801) 971-3991
From:              kathrynwbrown@yahoo.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to file #OAM2025-001470
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 6:00:31 PM



   You don't often get email from kathrynwbrown@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important


I am writing in opposition to granting Mr. Leick's application for his parcel to be designated as an
agricultural protection area. When he bought this land there was no agricultural activity going on. It's my
understanding that an agricultural protection area is designated to protect agricultural endeavors that are
already ongoing from development that might want to encroach or dictate how they run their farm, for
example. When Mr. Leick bought this property there was no agriculturl activity going on. It was simply a
parcel of woods. He knew that his land was not accessible by road and that he did not have permission
from the Emigration Oaks neighborhood association to use the trail on their property to access his
property. He is simply trying to find a way, any way, to build a road so he can easily get to his property.



The trail that leads to his property is widely used by people who live in Emigration Oaks. I'm up there at
least once a week and others hike on this trail every day. We have plenty of roads we can walk on, but
we highly value being able to hike off of a road in a beautiful setting. I do not want a road that will ruin that
setting—and all for the benefit of one person who is making up a reason for his request.

Kathryn Brown
696 N. Pioneer Fork Rd
From:              paul brown
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to File: OAM2025-001470
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 5:47:52 PM
Attachments:       APA.odt



   You don't often get email from paul.h.brown@verizon.net. Learn why this is important


Ms. Baun,

Please note my attached objections to the above application to create an Agricultural
Protection Area in Emigration Canyon.

Thank you.

Paul Brown

696 N Pioneer Fork Rd

Emigration Canyon UT 84108

phone 801-277-3641
From:              JP Slavinsky
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area (File: OAM2025-001470, Applicant: Ryan
                   Leick)
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 2:13:06 PM



   You don't often get email from jpslav@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the City Council,

I am writing as a nearby resident to formally object to the proposal for the creation of an
Agricultural Protection Area (APA) on the 40-acre parcel owned by Mr. Ryan Leick (Parcel
No. 10-20-400-002, Freeze Creek).

My objections are as follows:

1. Increased Traffic, Noise, and Disturbance

The Freeze Creek trail and surrounding area are quiet, natural spaces enjoyed by residents for
hiking and recreation. Converting this remote, landlocked tract into an agricultural operation
—or granting protections that enable its development—would bring vehicle traffic, machinery
noise, and increased human presence to an area not designed for it. This would directly and
negatively impact the peace and character of my neighborhood.

2. Questionable Motivation and Risk of Pretextual Use

I am concerned that the agricultural protection request may not reflect the applicant’s true
intentions. Previous actions, including efforts to obtain roadway access, the construction of
structures, and filings expressing intent to build a residence and other facilities, suggest that
“agriculture” may be a pretext for securing rights that would otherwise be denied. Approving
this designation could unintentionally facilitate development inconsistent with the APA’s
spirit and with our community’s interests.

3. Elevated Wildfire Risk

Agricultural or ranching use in this steep, heavily wooded terrain could significantly increase
the risk of wildfire. Activities such as burning, equipment use, or even grazing infrastructure
could spark fires in a hard-to-reach area, which lies between Red Butte and Emigration
Canyon—both highly sensitive wildfire corridors. Suppression would be extremely difficult,
and the risk to nearby homes, including mine, would be substantial.

4. Watershed and Water Quality Concerns

This parcel sits within the Emigration Improvement District’s source protection zone. Any
agricultural use involving soil disturbance, fertilizers, or livestock waste could impair water
quality. Since all residents rely on well systems drawing from this watershed, the
consequences of contamination could affect the entire community’s drinking water supply.

5. Conflict with Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) Protections

Salt Lake County’s FCOZ regulations (Title 19) were enacted to protect fragile canyon
ecosystems, prevent inappropriate development, and safeguard water resources. Granting APA
status to a parcel that is already difficult to access and environmentally sensitive could
undermine the intent of FCOZ and open the door to land uses that the County has explicitly
sought to restrict.



For these reasons, I respectfully urge the City Council to reject this application for an
Agricultural Protection Area. The risks to traffic, safety, water quality, wildfire resilience, and
compliance with FCOZ protections far outweigh any potential benefit.

Thank you for your consideration of my comments.

JP Slavinsky

6264 E Brigham Fork Circle
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:               Kristi Colleran
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Objection to Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area - by Ryan Leick
Date:               Friday, September 19, 2025 5:59:19 PM



   You don't often get email from kristi@colleran.net. Learn why this is important

Ms. Baun,

As a resident of Emigration Oaks since 2012, I strongly object to the recent Proposal for
Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area filed by Ryan Leick. While I support the
preservation of Utah’s agricultural heritage and responsible farming practices, I respectfully
urge the Emigration Canyon City Council to deny this specific proposal for the following
reasons:

Incompatibility with Surrounding Land Use – The proposed APA is located in close proximity to
Emigration Oaks, a private residential community. Granting this designation would negatively
impact property values and the quality of life for the residents of Emigration Oaks via at a
minimum increased traffic, noise, dust, and safety concerns.

Lack of Clear Agricultural Benefit – It’s not clear from the application whether the proposed
land will be used for long-term, productive agriculture. Tapping a dozen trees, picking some
wild berries and putting out a few apiary boxes are hobbies vs. a strong commitment to
genuine agriculture use. Furthermore, these hobbies have been pursued while trespassing
across Emigration Oaks property.
Bad Faith and Transparency - The petitioner, having knowingly purchased the landlocked
parcel, has used multiple ploys to unlock this parcel. This proposal is yet another ploy. Given
his propensity to act in bad faith, be unlawful, and bend the rules as demonstrated by
trespassing, encouraging others to trespass, threatening the Emigration Oaks HOA and
misling county officials, the petitioner had demonstrated he is not trustworthy. If the APA
designation is granted, he will exploit the lack of government oversight and develop the
property beyond what’s in the proposal —contrary to the spirit of the APA program.

The Agricultural Protection Area designation was intended to shield genuine agricultural
operations from encroaching urban development—not to serve as a blanket exemption from
oversight in mixed-use or residential areas. In this case, the balance between agricultural
preservation and community well-being clearly tips in favor of denying the application.

Thank you for considering my perspective. I respectfully request that that the Council deny the
Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area filed by Ryan Leick.



Sincerely,
Kristi Colleran
(801) 897-9211
From:              Kristen Vinik
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Proposed Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Oaks
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:31:31 AM



   You don't often get email from kvinik2@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,


As an 18-year resident of Emigration Oaks, I am writing to express my strong opposition to Mr. Ryan
Leick's request to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural Protection Area. While I support
responsible land stewardship, this designation poses significant concerns for residents, the environment,
and the long-term character of the canyon.

My understanding is that Mr. Leick purchased this parcel knowing that it did not have access through the
private roads and common areas of our Emigration Oaks Neighborhood, yet he is pursuing this proposal
as a workaround to obtain access to an environmentally sensitive area through a private community.
This proposal would violate the CC&R's of the Emigration Oaks HOA and create significant risks and
damage not only Emigration Oaks, but to Emigration Canyon as a whole.

First, construction vehicles, employee traffic, and delivery trucks would place an unsafe and
unsustainable burden on our infrastructure. Increased traffic in Freeze Creek and other areas would also
require the building of new access roads, further disrupting the landscape and increasing wildfire risk in a
canyon already prone to significant fire danger.

Second, commercial agricultural production in this location would threaten the Freeze Creek watershed
which provides water to Emigration Canyon, and will and put pressure on limited water resources. The
risk of introducing non-native plants or animals poses further threats to the delicate ecology of our
canyon. Combined with the danger of wildfire ignition from farming equipment and traffic, these risks
make the proposal incompatible with the canyon’s natural character.

Finally, the definition of “agricultural production” under Utah law requires commercial activity with a
reasonable expectation of profit. This raises questions as to whether the proposal is primarily intended for
legitimate agricultural purposes or to secure exemptions from zoning and land-use oversight. If approved,
this designation could set a precedent that alters the residential and recreational balance that has long
defined Emigration Canyon.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge the City Council to reject this application for an Agricultural
Protection Area. Protecting the canyon’s safety, water, natural character, and fair land-use governance
must remain a priority




Respectfully Submitted,




Kristen Vinik     
350 N. Middle Oak Lane
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
Phone: 801-455-9419
From:              Kristen Vinik
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Proposed Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Oaks
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:36:20 AM
Attachments:       Objection_letter.pdf



   You don't often get email from kvinik2@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,


As an 18-year resident of Emigration Oaks, I am writing to express my strong opposition to Mr. Ryan
Leick's request to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural Protection Area. While I support
responsible land stewardship, this designation poses significant concerns for residents, the environment,
and the long-term character of the canyon.

My understanding is that Mr. Leick purchased this parcel knowing that it did not have access through the
private roads and common areas of our Emigration Oaks Neighborhood, yet he is pursuing this proposal
as a workaround to obtain access to an environmentally sensitive area through a private community.
This proposal would violate the CC&R's of the Emigration Oaks HOA and create significant risks and
damage not only Emigration Oaks, but to Emigration Canyon as a whole.

First, construction vehicles, employee traffic, and delivery trucks would place an unsafe and
unsustainable burden on our infrastructure. Increased traffic in Freeze Creek and other areas would also
require the building of new access roads, further disrupting the landscape and increasing wildfire risk in a
canyon already prone to significant fire danger.

Second, commercial agricultural production in this location would threaten the Freeze Creek watershed
which provides water to Emigration Canyon, and will and put pressure on limited water resources. The
risk of introducing non-native plants or animals poses further threats to the delicate ecology of our
canyon. Combined with the danger of wildfire ignition from farming equipment and traffic, these risks
make the proposal incompatible with the canyon’s natural character.

Finally, the definition of “agricultural production” under Utah law requires commercial activity with a
reasonable expectation of profit. This raises questions as to whether the proposal is primarily intended for
legitimate agricultural purposes or to secure exemptions from zoning and land-use oversight. If approved,
this designation could set a precedent that alters the residential and recreational balance that has long
defined Emigration Canyon.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge the City Council to reject this application for an Agricultural
Protection Area. Protecting the canyon’s safety, water, natural character, and fair land-use governance
must remain a priority.  

Respectfully Submitted,


Kristen Vinik     
350 N. Middle Oak Lane
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
Phone: 801-455-9419
From:              Sandra Nielsen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Proposed Agricultural Protection Area – SE ¼ SE ¼ Section 20, T1N, R2E
Date:              Thursday, September 18, 2025 3:01:25 PM



   You don't often get email from sandrajnielsen@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Ms. Baun:

I am a homeowner in Emigration Oaks development in Emigration Canyon, and I am writing
to submit my objection to the proposed creation of an Agricultural Protection Area (“APA”)
for the property described as the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian.

My concerns are as follows:

   1. Incompatibility with Zoning (FR-20)
      The parcel in question lies within the FR-20 (Forestry/Recreation) zone, which is
      intended to protect the watershed, maintain forested open space, and limit development
      intensity. Designating the land as an APA is inconsistent with the zone’s stated purpose
      and may invite uses and structures not aligned with the county’s intent for this sensitive
      area.

   2. Fragile Ecosystem and Watershed Protection
      The property is part of a riparian corridor (Freeze Creek) and contributes directly to the
      Canyon’s watershed. Agricultural intensification—even minimal grazing, clearing, or
      structural activity—poses risks to water quality, erosion control, and wildlife habitat.
      Granting APA status could unintentionally weaken the County’s ability to safeguard
      these resources.

   3. Conflict with Easement Understanding
      Access to this land was granted through a limited easement across private HOA-
      maintained roads and trails under the explicit understanding that the parcel would
      remain undeveloped due to the sensitive ecosystem. Creation of an APA appears
      inconsistent with those original terms and could encourage construction or land
      alterations contrary to that agreement.

   4. Risk of Precedent
      Approval of an APA in this context could encourage similar applications elsewhere in
      Emigration Canyon, undermining long-standing watershed protections and community
      planning goals.

For these reasons, I respectfully request that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
deny the APA application for this parcel. At a minimum, if the Council considers approval, it
should require strict conditions that explicitly prohibit new permanent structures,
development, or uses that could compromise the watershed or exceed the limits of FR-20
zoning.

Thank you for your consideration and for your work in protecting the long-term health and
livability of Emigration Canyon.
Sincerely,
Sandra Nielsen
758 N. Donner Hill Circle (lot 113)
801-979-1077
From:              Lane Risser
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           OBJECTION to proposed agricultural protection area
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 5:26:04 PM



   You don't often get email from lrisser@laneandco.net. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana,

As an avid hiker, I strive to “leave no trace”. This proposal for an Agricultural Protection Area
is the complete opposite of “leave no trace”. This proposal has a significant impact on the
Emigration Oaks neighborhood including a negative impact on our water supply, vegetation,
wildlife, and private roads. Mr. Reick purchased land that he knew was land locked. To date,
he has not lived by the moto “leave no trace”. He has put our neighborhood at risk, especially
with regard to forest fire safety and water contamination – flying supplies into his property
and human waste disposal.   My neighbors and I have been good stewards of our recreational
lands (e.g., doing fire prevention, trail maintenance, foster a weed control program without
the use of chemicals, sealing our private roads to ensure their longevity). The council should
be looking for ways to enhance our efforts not ruin them by allowing Mr. Reick to bully his way
onto our private roads. Please do NOT approve this proposal for an Agricultural Protection
Area.

Sincerely,

Lane Risser
Marathon Circle
Emigration Oaks Resident
From:              Roger McQueen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection to Ryan Leick request or a Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 11:31:13 AM



   You don't often get email from roger.mcqueen.nmss@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

We are writing this email because we want to register our opposition to allow Ryan Leick to
have an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon. We believe creating this would
threaten our living in our HOA.   
We moved here in 1997. It has been a joy living in the wonderful canyon among good,
realistic and kind neighbors. Some of those neighbors include deer, wild turkeys, moose,
coyotes and sometimes an occasional bear. We worry about fires in the summer and are
careful with our water supplies both in quality and quantity. We have 3 nice wells along the
Freeze Creek drainage. We haven't built a gate to protect us because our neighbors care alot
about life in the Oaks. We know this canyon is declared as a Fire pronded canyon and many of
us lost our fire insurance this past year. Many of us had to spend alot of money to improve and
upgrade our yards so we could get fire insurance.
Now it seems we are now facing another big Issue that concerns alot of us in the HOA. Ryan
Leick and his desire to live next to us without being a good realistic neighbor. He has been
trespassing and using our roads and trails and even helicopters to bring in supplies to build a
compound on his 40 land locked land and now wants to create this as a protection area. Let's
get serious as he dreams of being a farmer and what he hopes to create on his property is a
huge threat to our property. I think you are getting good information about all the issues he is
missing in his request. Like electricity, water, sanitation, fire prevention, road access to name
a few.
So JiIl and I will end our concerns and say we object strongly to allow him to destroy our
good roads , water , sanitation, fire protection and life style as we live in the Oaks. We
hope you will conquer by not allowing him this request of the Agriculture Protection Area.

Roger and Jill McQueen 5820 Twin Creek Road .
From:              Debra Simmons
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Objection
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 4:10:39 PM



   You don't often get email from debrasimmons@live.com. Learn why this is important




I object to the proposed land use change. As a property owner in Emigration Oaks, I believe
the value of our home would decrease significantly as would my day-to-day quality of life.  


Some of my concerns are the following:

   1. Increased traffic would negatively impact the tranquility of our neighborhood and
      increase the time to travel to and from home.  
   2. Smells related to agriculture would disturb daily life.  
   3. Sounds related to agriculture would make it hard to enjoy the peacefulness of our
      canyon.  



Please let me know that you received this and if you have any questions.


Sincerely,
Debra Simmons
6099 East Last Camp Circle


801-558-2840
From:                  Tyler Stillwater
To:                    Diana Baun
Subject:               Opinion Letter Regarding Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:                  Friday, September 26, 2025 10:39:47 AM



      You don't often get email from tyler@stillwater.me. Learn why this is important

Good morning, Diana,

The creation of the Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area has recently come to my
attention. After looking in to it, I have decided to submit my written opinion regarding this
proposal.

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks, and I strongly oppose this proposal. According to the
information I have gathered, this proposal would pave way for substantial impact to myself,
my family and my community. I absolutely do not agree with introducing hundreds of new
species of plants, trees or shrubs to the area. I love Emigration Canyon for its natural beauty
and I am concerned the great variety of additional plant species would spread.

Additionally, I adore the quality of water we receive from our wells. I am very concerned
about livestock grazing above our wells, and what would leech into our well water. Not only
could it impact our health, it may also greatly increase the burden on our water supply
regarding sanitation, thus increasing my water bill.

Most of all, I absolutely, vehemently oppose any attempt to make our private road public,
especially for the purpose of creating a commercial venture that necessitates using our private
roads to visit. The fact that this is a private community with a private road was a substantial
factor in our decision to purchase this house. My wife and I have waited our entire lives to
move somewhere with very little ambient noise, especially road noise.

The above are very real concerns given the lawsuit currently in process against Emigration
Oaks. If the Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area is approved, it will strengthen the
lawsuit against Emigration Oaks, which could then result in the impacts described above.

While I applaud Ryan Leick in his desire and effort to create a farm and agrotourism business,
I find it utterly ludicrous that he would knowingly purchase inaccessible land above a long
established private community and wage war against the entire community to meet his selfish
desires, drastically impacting the quality of life of hundreds of people. He simply could have
purchased his land somewhere else. I do not believe myself, my family and my community
should be forced to accept the reduction in quality of life, property values and peace of mind
that this proposal would impose upon us.

Thank you for your consideration and for spending your valuable time reading my opinion
letter.

---

Tyler Stillwater
From:              veronique markewitz
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposed to the creation of Agricultural :Creek Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 8:51:35 PM



   You don't often get email from vmarkewitz@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Statement of Opposition to the Creation of Agricultural Land / Creek Farm in Upper
Freeze Creek

We firmly oppose the proposed creation of agricultural land and/or a creek farm in the Upper
Freeze Creek area. This development poses significant environmental, ecological, and
community concerns. Upper Freeze Creek is a sensitive and valuable natural area that should
be preserved, not converted for agricultural or commercial use.

We urge all decision-makers to consider the long-term impacts on water quality, wildlife
habitat, and the overall ecological integrity of the region. The preservation of Upper Freeze
Creek is essential for maintaining the health of our natural systems and the well-being of our
community.

Sincerely,

Scott & Veronique

801-231-3706
From:              Kellie Risser
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           OPPOSED
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:32:22 AM



   You don't often get email from krisser@laneandco.net. Learn why this is important


Ms Baun,

Do not endanger our landscape, water supply and recreational lands for this one man’s desire
to ruin it!!

       Ryan Leick wishes to create a farm on his property in upper Freeze Creek.

       He intends to build many new structures, including a barn, a lumber mill, a Slovenian
       bee house, and a large viewing platform.

       He intends to plant up to 125 new species of plants, trees and shrubs, many of which are
       non-native.

       He intends to graze pigs, goats and sheep in the maintenance of his farm. Above our
       well.

       He intends to build a road and a bridge to get all of the necessary equipment, to his
       property.
From:              Herman Post
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposing Freeze Creek APA
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 2:46:42 PM



   You don't often get email from herm.post@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms Baun,

Please forward the following email to the ECC regarding the Freeze Creek APA submitted by
Ryan Leick.

9/25/2025

Dear Emigration Canyon Council,

I am writing to inform you of my strong opposition to the creation of the Freeze Creek
Forest APA (Parcel 10-20-400-0002). I have been a resident of Emigration Oaks for ten
years, and I am a member of the EOPOA Board of Trustees. I am intimately aware of Mr.
Leick’s attempts to gain access to his property since he purchased it in 2021.

As I am sure you are aware, Mr. Leick has filed suit against the EOPOA, Salt Lake City,
and Emigration Canyon, for access to his property. I believe that his application for an
Agricultural Protection Area is just another feeble attempt to gain access to his property, for
personal gain.

Our attorneys have filed a lengthy letter to you detailing the legal shortcomings of Mr.
Leick’s application, and I won’t waste your time or mine repeating those arguments. But I
am in full agreement and support of this letter.

Before Mr. Leick purchased this property, it was wild, peaceful and beautiful. The Freeze
Creek trail that passes through the property was enjoyed by numerous residents of the
Oaks and Emigration Canyon for years. It was an obvious wildlife corridor coming out of
Red Butte Canyon. Since Mr. Leick’s acquisition, however, the character of the trail has
been degraded. He has built structures that detract from the natural character of the
canyon and certainly scared away wildlife. He has had open fires that threaten our safety.
He has admitted to having waste facilities that certainly degrade our water quality. And his
plans for farming and grazing will only increase the degradation of the canyon.  

It seems premature to grant an APA for this property as he does not have reasonable legal
access to his property. He can’t possibly carry out the agricultural activities he has
specified without a road of some type. And, the agricultural activities that are currently
going on, that he wishes to use as evidence for the APA, were accomplished without
required permits and through trespass.
Should he prevail in the suit against the Oaks, SLC and ECC, then perhaps it would make
more sense to grant the APA. But, granting an APA now might actually aid Mr Leick in his
lawsuit. And that would be a tragedy. I know of no one in the Oaks or the canyon that
supports a road, a bridge, and a farm in upper Freeze Creek. And once the road goes in,
the value of the property skyrockets and it’s just another development, in what once was a
beautiful place.

Thanks for your consideration,

Herman Post
6098 E Pioneer Fork Rd
Emigration Canyon, UT
From:              Edwin McGough
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Paul Brown; Mike McHugh; Edwin McGough
Subject:           Opposition letter to Ryan Leick"s application for an Agricultural Protection Area file#OAM2025-001470
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 12:54:57 PM




[You don't often get email from edwinmcgough@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Diana Baun or To Whom it May Concern

I am writing this letter to express my opposition to granting Ryan Leick an Agricultural Protection Area Permit for
his 40 acres of land.
I am deeply concerned that Ryan Leick’s plans will have a dramatic impact on the way of life of the Emigration
Oaks residents. The possibility of the changes that can occur with the APA are severe. The increase in traffic from
more vehicles and employees as well as the possible construction of a road to access his property would change the
whole complexion of the area. Mr Leick has already demonstrated he has little regard for the wishes of the residents
of the OAKS by repeatedly trespassing on our property. When confronted while trespassing he threatens the
neighborhood with making our roads and trails public.

Of even more concern is the impact on our water supply and the environment. He has no permit for a well and will
take water from Freeze Creek Stream which is already diminished because of the long standing drought which has
noticeably affected the downstream flow. The wildlife for decades have used the canyon for their normal movement
and his proposed developments would disrupt this and not improve things as he suggests. We have already found
evidence of his burning materials in a barrel with no means of fire control. He has internal combustion engines in
his chipper and ATV with no means of controlling a fire from sparks from these engines.

For decades the residents have enjoyed the trails and is one of the reasons people live in the Oaks. Leick’s APA
would most likely compromise the experience both by route diversion and changing the experience from woodlands
to farming.

Based on approximately five years experience with Mr. Leick I strongly recommend that no APA be granted for Mr.
Leick’s 40 acres.


Sincerely,
Edwin McGough
705 N Pioneer Fork Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
801-554-9481
edwinmcgough@icloud.com
From:               Rod Smith
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to agricultural protection area application
Date:               Wednesday, September 24, 2025 8:23:27 PM




[You don't often get email from mrsmithjr@me.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Ms. Baun:

I am writing to oppose the agricultural protection area (APA) application for parcel 10-20-400-002. I am a resident
of Emmigration Canyon, and I routinely use the area that would be affected by this application. I am concerned that
use as requested in the application will increase wildfire risk, threaten our water supply, and introduce invasive
plants into the area. Moreover, this area has no prior history of agricultural use and is inappropriate for an
agricultural protection area designation.

This property owner has initiated litigation against my neighborhood association, Salt Lake City, and our local water
district seeking access over our private roads to access his recently purchased, landlocked parcel. This effort to
obtain an APA designation is a blatant attempt to secure his desired land uses in a way that he could not otherwise
obtain through litigation and should be denied on that basis alone.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Mark Smith
394 North Middle Oak Lane
Emmigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:               Amanda Weeks
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to Agricultural Protection Area by Ryan Leich
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 9:43:57 AM




[You don't often get email from mandarin7@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

>> To the Council,
>>
>> I have read the application and the statute that Mr Leich is attempting to use to circumvent restrictions he feels
he has on his property.
>>
>> The Agricultural Protection Area was not designed for the purpose Mr. Leich is proposing and was inherently
designed to protect farmers. Mr Leich is attempting to bypass the previously known restrictions he has on his
property and impinge on the rights of neighboring property owners.

>> I strongly urge the council to deny this application as if allowed it would be a very terrible precedent and send a
negative message that someone can merely make up information to get what they want at the expense of others’
rights.

Regards,
Amanda Weeks
From:               Howard Weeks
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Opposition to Agricultural Protection Area by Ryan Leich
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 12:09:09 PM




[You don't often get email from hrweeks@mac.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

To the Council,

I have read the application and I have read the statue that Mr Leich is attempting to use to circumvent restrictions he
feels he has on his property.

The Agricultural Protection Area is inherently designed to protect farmers. Mr Leich is attempting to shoe horn in
his property under the guise of agriculture. This is a blatant attempt to get around the previous known restrictions he
had on his property.
It is like when millionaires attempted to abuse the tax code to write off “ranches” when they were, in reality,
vacation homes.

I strongly urge the council to deny this application as it sends a horrible message that anyone can make up
information to try to get their way.

Thank you

Howard Weeks
Resident Emigration Canyon
From:              Scott Osterloh
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           opposition to agriculture protection area. File: OAM2025-001470
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 9:42:16 AM



   You don't often get email from scottosterloh@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hi Ms. Baun,

Re:
proposal to create the agriculture protection area
File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)
Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1
North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian.
Underlying Zone: FR-20

As a nearby resident of the parcel in the above application, I'm opposed to the creation of an
agricultural protection area designation on this parcel. This is not farm land, it's forest. The
land does not have road access, only a foot trail on neighboring properties. This would be a
horrible location for a farm. Near the top of a watershed and primary well, this proposal could
endanger the drinking water for hundreds of canyon residents. I'm also concerned with the loss
of zoning authority and building permit oversight the county would lose if this application was
granted. The introduction of non-native animals and plants to this area is threatening to the
whole area.

Sincerely,
Scott Osterloh
Emigration Oaks
From:              Caroline Vines
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Agrotourism Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:42:44 AM



   You don't often get email from carolinevines@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,

I'm writing in opposition to Ryan Leick's farm in upper Freeze Creek. I have lived in
Emigration Canyon for 15 years and have been supportive of some of the development and
improvements made here. This proposal, however, seems a misfit for this space. We and
many residents enjoy the natural beauty and access to trails. This project would disrupt this
significantly. I am most concerned about how water will be resourced to maintain this farm,
as it is already a scarce resource not just in Utah, but especially in the canyon which relies on
wells. I am concerned about the environmental impact, not just with regard to flora and fauna,
but keeping our water supply clean. I am highly concerned about how this will affect our
ability to get home owners insurance, which is already a challenge given the high risk of
wildfire up here. Finally, I do not support providing access to our private roads, which we pay
dues annually to maintain, to complete such a project. It does not make sense to build a farm
next to a residential mountain community.  

Thank you for being receptive to my feedback.

Sincerely,
Caroline Vines
From:              Geoffrey Crockett
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to APA Designation – Parcel 10-20-400-002 (Freeze Creek Forest)
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 10:00:31 AM



   You don't often get email from gcrockett@mac.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,

I am writing to formally express my opposition to the proposal to designate Parcel 10-20-400-
002 as an Agricultural Protection Area (APA).

As a long-time resident of Emigration Canyon and homeowner in Emigration Oaks, I am
concerned that this designation would have serious and lasting impacts on the surrounding
residential community, including:

   1. Incompatibility with Residential Uses
      Emigration Oaks is a quiet residential neighborhood directly adjacent to the proposed
      APA. Allowing commercial agricultural activities—no matter how limited—introduces
      the potential for increased traffic, noise, and disruption that are inconsistent with the
      established character and zoning of this area.

   2. Water Quality Risks
      The parcel lies within a Drinking Water Source Protection Zone. Even with proposed
      best management practices, introducing agricultural processing activities (e.g., syrup
      production, logging, or fruit packing) may increase the risk of contamination to the
      watershed and our shared drinking water supply.

   3. Wildfire and Erosion Hazards
      Expanding agricultural use on steep, forested terrain could heighten the risk of wildfire
      ignition and erosion—threats that already require vigilant mitigation in this canyon.
      Additional infrastructure, access routes, or clearing may unintentionally exacerbate
      these risks.

   4. Loss of Local Control
      Approval of this APA designation would mean the City gives up its zoning authority,
      its ability to enforce building permits, and its power of eminent domain on the
      property. This significantly reduces the community’s ability to regulate future land uses
      or respond to unforeseen impacts over time.

   5. Permanent and Irreversible Designation
      APA designations are permanent. While the current proposal may appear limited and
      well-intentioned, it would lock in broad protections for agricultural use regardless of
      how activities might evolve under future ownership or management—without further
      public input.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge the City Council to deny the APA application or defer
action until a more thorough public review and environmental impact analysis can be
completed.

Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Geoffrey Crockett, MD, FACEP
652 N. Pioneer Fork Road
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
 801-674-5660
 gcrockett@mac.com
From:              Jeanne Crockett
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Jeanne L. Crockett
Subject:           Opposition to APA Designation – Parcel 10-20-400-002 (Freeze Creek Forest)
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 10:07:46 AM



   You don't often get email from jeannecrockett@mac.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun and Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council,
I’m writing to share my concerns about the proposal to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an
Agricultural Protection Area (APA).
As a long-time Emigration Canyon resident and homeowner in Emigration Oaks, I believe this
designation could have serious, lasting effects on our community, including:
Not a Good Fit with the Neighborhood
Emigration Oaks is a quiet residential area right next to the proposed APA. Even small-scale
commercial farming could bring more traffic, noise, and disruption, which doesn’t match the
character or zoning of our neighborhood.
Risks to Water Quality
The parcel is located within a Drinking Water Source Protection Zone. Even with best
practices in place, activities such as syrup production, logging, or fruit packing can increase
the risk of contamination to our watershed and drinking water.
Fire and Erosion Concerns
Expanding agricultural use on steep, wooded land increases the risk of wildfire and erosion—
issues we already work hard to manage in the canyon. Additional infrastructure, clearing, or
access routes could exacerbate these problems.
Loss of Local Oversight
If approved, the APA would mean the City would relinquish its zoning authority, building
permit oversight, and power of eminent domain over this land. That limits the community’s
ability to manage future land uses or respond to emerging problems.
Permanent Designation
APA designations don’t expire. While the current proposal may seem small and well-
intentioned, it would permanently protect broad agricultural use—regardless of changes in
ownership or management—without requiring any additional public input.
For all these reasons, I urge the Council to deny this APA application, or at least hold off until
a more comprehensive public review and environmental study can be conducted.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Jeanne Crockett
652 N. Pioneer Fork Road
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:              Raven ******
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Application for Agricultural Protection Area Designation
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:56:26 AM



   You don't often get email from ravenlc@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana,

We are writing you this email in objection to Mr. Ryan Leick's proposal to designate Parcel
10-20-400-002 as an agricultural protection area.

We are homeowners and residents of the Emigration Oaks neighborhood, located in
Emigration Canyon. As homeowners and residents, we have multiple concerns regarding this
application and designation.

Our first concern is regarding the wells that supply our drinking water, which are below this
property. If the designation is approved, our concern is that the quality of water that we
receive (and hundreds of other homes in the area) will be adversely affected by the activities
performed on the property. This would directly affect people's health and well being.
In addition to our health concerns, this could lead to a large decrease in the value of
our property. If approved, the uses of Mr. Ryan Leick's property, the construction, and other
activities would be freely allowed without opportunity to prevent this health risk. We will
have no recourse to stop, prevent, or correct those.

Our second concern is regarding our private roads and trails. Opening up the private roads and
trails to allow Mr. Ryan Leick to bring farming equipment, construction materials, etc., will be
a huge nuisance to the neighborhood. One of the main reasons we purchased our residence in
the Emigration Oaks neighborhood is because of its privacy and quiet enjoyment of the
surrounding natural spaces.
We are also concerned regarding the construction of a road over the trails that lead to Mr.
Ryan Leick's property. Building of a road would be required to support the proposed
agricultural activities and construction on the property. This road would destroy our private
hiking trails, which are very valuable to us and to the Emigration Oaks neighborhood. Many
homeowners use these trails daily (including us) and it would be extremely disappointing to
see them replaced and destroyed.

Our third concern is regarding the introduction of non-native plants and grazing animals.
Introducing both could have severe, negative long-term consequences to our ecosystem and
people's health by causing the extinction of native species, reducing biodiversity, altering
habitats, spreading diseases, and disrupting essential ecosystem functions like nutrient cycling
and water flow. These disruptions could also lead to significant economic damage.

We strongly object to the proposal designating Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an agricultural
protection area. The broader implications of this matter extend beyond any one individual, and
we urge the decision makers to weigh the overall impact this would have on the Emigration
Oaks community.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Best Regards,
Raven Clissold and Michael Insley

6216 E. Brigham Fork Circle
SLC, UT 84108
801-815-7717
978-855-5465
From:              Eileen Sugiarto
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Application for Agricultural Protection Designation
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 1:02:59 PM



   You don't often get email from eileen.sugiarto@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,

I'm writing to express my opposition to the 'Application for Agricultural Protection Area
Designation' filed by Ryan Leick on August 11 regarding the property described as Parcel No.
10-20-400-002 in Emigration Canyon.

I am concerned about the impact on the environment, fire danger, and wear and tear on
Emigration Oaks private roads. But my primary concern is how the proposed project will
affect the water quality of the Upper Freeze Creek Well. This well serves many residents of
the community, including my young family. Pathogens from animal manure, nutrient pollution
from fertilizers, and pesticide runoff are all known impacts of agriculture above a water
source.

I implore the council members to prioritize the public health and delicate eco system of this
fragile canyon over the whims of one property owner. Please take all the suggestions and
concerns of the neighbors into consideration when deciding the outcome of this application.

Sincerely,

Eileen Sugiarto
(801) 350-1382
574 N Marathon Cir
Emigration Township, Utah 84108
From:              Chris Colleran
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Application for Agricultural Protection Area 10-20-400-002
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 5:45:00 PM



   You don't often get email from chris.colleran@outlook.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Emigration City Council Members,


I am writing as a concerned homeowner and resident of Emigration Oaks,
714 N Pioneer Fork Rd,
Emigration City, UT 84108
regarding the application to establish an Agricultural Protection Area (APA) on the property
located at:

Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002

Acreage: 40 Acres

Legal Description: SE ¼ of SE ¼ of Section 20, T 1N R 2E SLBM

While I strongly support the preservation of Utah’s agricultural heritage and responsible
farming practices, I respectfully urge Emigration City Council to deny this specific application
for the following reasons:



   1. Incompatibility with Surrounding Land Use
      The proposed APA requires the conversion of private residential area roads that have
      been maintained by an HOA for decades. Granting this designation could introduce
      farming activities that may significantly affect nearby homes, including increased noise,
      odors, dust, and heavy machinery traffic—issues that can negatively impact property
      values and the quality of life for residents not just of Emigration Oaks but of the entire
      Emigration Canyon community.

   2. Environmental and Public Health Concerns
      The potential use of pesticides, fertilizers, and other chemicals may pose a risk to
      nearby families, children, pets, and local water supplies. Since access to the parcel
      would require a roadway next to a fragile stream area in a community with limited
      water resources this raises valid public health concerns.

   3. Lack of Clear Agricultural Benefit
      The limited agriculture described in the application indicates that this is more of a
      hobby that a true agricultural endeavor. Also please note that the work that petitioner
      has done to date was done violating the property rights of the Emigration Oaks
      homeowners. The petitioner has consistently avoided being transparent and acted in
      bad faith not just with the Emigration Oaks homeowners but also with Salt Lake County
      agencies that have inquired about the petitioner’s actions to date.

   4. Community Input and Transparency
      The petitioner purchased the parcel in question knowing it was landlocked. To date he
      has trespassed, encouraged others to trespass, threatened the Emigration Oaks HOA,
      misled county officials, and has tried multiple approaches to unlock the parcel at the
      expense not just the Emigration Oaks HOA, but everyone that gets water from the
      Emigration Oaks. While I do not think that APA should be granted as requested, I also do
      not trust that the petitioner won’t exceed the boundaries that application would grant if
      approved as he has done to date.

The Agricultural Protection Area designation was intended to shield genuine agricultural
operations from encroaching urban development—not to serve as a blanket exemption from
oversight in mixed-use or residential areas. In this case, the balance between agricultural
preservation and community well-being clearly tips in favor of denying the application.

Thank you for considering my perspective. I respectfully request that the Department deny
the proposed APA application and encourage the applicant to work with the community on
solutions that respect both agricultural interests and residential quality of life.



Sincerely,

Chris Colleran
From:              John Lair
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           opposition to Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:27:23 PM



   You don't often get email from john@lairgroup.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Emigration Canyon City Council:

I am writing to express my opposition to the proposal to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as
an Agricultural Protection Area. My family and I live in Emigration Oaks, and we’re
concerned about the impact that the activities permitted by such a designation would have
on our home, our safety, our health, and our community.

   1. Water concerns: The property in question is situated so that the permitted activities
      – such as raising livestock – would endanger the water table and thus the wells that
      we rely on for safe drinking water. I’m also concerned that the permitted activities
      would consume significant water, risking the water security for the entire community.
   2. Erosion concerns: One of the activities that would be permitted if this designation is
      approved is cutting timber. In our hilly community, tree management is critical to soil
      stability, and proper forestry is essential to mitigating the risks of landslides and other
      pitfalls related to reduced canopy.
   3. Road safety / Traffic concerns: Should the property be designated as proposed, it
      would open the door for the development of access road(s). Such roads would then
      carry significant additional traffic on Emigration Oaks roads, conveying workers and
      visitors to a commercial operation. Many of the vehicles would be service/work
      trucks, which impact the roads more than passenger vehicles. The type and quantity
      of the vehicle traffic would add danger and risk to residents of the Oaks. The roads
      through the Oaks were not designed and built with such activities and impacts in
      mind, and thus would degrade prematurely due to these activities. I would add that
      the roads are currently private, and were and are built and maintained by us, the
      residents of Emigration Oaks. The project would therefore benefit inappropriately
      from the costs borne by Oaks residents.

Finally, I believe that the history of the applicant’s actions speaks volumes. He has
previously sought the ability to build access roads through our private lands and has been
denied. This new ploy to create an Agricultural Protection Area is a thinly veiled attempt to
gain this access through other means. I, for one, am highly skeptical that the plans as
submitted will come into existence; it is more likely that the access road will be the focus,
and once gained, the rest of the beneficial plans will fall by the wayside.

I appreciate your consideration and thank you for your work.

Sincerely,

John Lair
357 North Pioneer Ridge Road
SLC, UT 84108
801-916-1799
From:              Braxton Osting
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA) Application
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:07:01 PM



   You don't often get email from braxtono@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun, Members of the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission, and Emigration
Canyon City Council,

I am a resident of Emigration Canyon and I write to oppose the proposed Agricultural
Protection Area designation for the Leick parcel in upper Freeze Creek. This application raises
a number of significant public-safety, environmental, and neighborhood-quality concerns that
weigh strongly against approval.

1. The proposal includes construction and expansion that go well beyond small-scale farming:
greenhouse pads, barns, a sawmill/lumber-processing pad, bee houses, large viewing decks,
observation platforms, bridges, and private access grading. Although labeled as “agricultural
accessory uses,” these would amount to substantial new development that fundamentally
changes the character and intensity of use on this parcel.

2. The Leick property is located entirely inside the Emigration Improvement District’s
drinking-water source protection area. Several proposed activities — processing operations,
sawmill work, large-scale nursery/greenhouse operations, concentrated plantings, and
livestock grazing — are restricted or require special oversight in this zone for good reason.
Moving forward with an APA designation before independent hydrogeologic and water-
quality analysis risks compromising the safety of our shared water supply, especially because
parts of the proposal sit upslope from neighborhood wells.

3. Emigration Canyon is a wildland–urban interface with high fire exposure. Introducing a
sawmill, more human activity, new structures, and increased vehicle access will raise the
number of potential ignition sources and complicate firefighting efforts. While the application
mentions fuels management, the combined footprint of roads, structures, equipment, and
public visitation is likely to increase—not reduce—fire danger. An independent, detailed
wildfire-risk assessment is essential before any designation or approvals are considered.

4. Creating and grading a new private access road and bridge across steep canyon slopes will
increase erosion, destabilize soils, and change drainage patterns. Additional heavy-equipment
traffic and more vehicles on narrow canyon roads also create safety and emergency-access
challenges that are not adequately addressed in the application.

5. Approving an APA here would set a precedent allowing substantial development in parcels
currently governed by FR-20 and FCOZ standards that prioritize watershed protection, limited
use, and scenic preservation. This could encourage other applicants to pursue similar,
intensive development under the label of agriculture, undermining the intent of our zoning
rules.

6. Planting up to 125 species, many non-native, risks establishment and spread of invasives
that would degrade native ecosystems, require control measures, and alter long-term habitat
integrity in the canyon.
7. Neighboring landowners have not been directly engaged or given sufficient opportunity to
review the full scope and likely downstream impacts of this proposal. Furthermore, granting
APA status at this stage could materially affect the applicant’s concurrent legal actions
regarding road access and public visitation; the Council should avoid decisions that pre-empt
other important reviews.

Emigration Canyon’s watershed, wildland-urban safety, and scenic character deserve priority.
For the protection of our water supply, the safety of residents, and the integrity of canyon
zoning, I respectfully urge the Council and Planning Commission to deny this APA
application.

Thank you for your attention to these matters on behalf of Emigration Canyon residents and
property owners.

Sincerely,
Braxton Osting
(206) 795-3374
574 N. Marathon Circle,
Emigration Township, UT 84108
From:             Julie Christenson
To:               Diana Baun
Subject:          Opposition to Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area Application
Date:             Wednesday, September 24, 2025 10:57:42 PM



   You don't often get email from notomhouse@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun,

As an owner of multiple properties in Emigration Canyon, I am writing to express my
opposition to the Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area (APA) application. While I
support responsible stewardship of land and water in our canyon, I believe this application
raises serious concerns that would negatively affect both the environment and neighboring
property owners.

1. Expanded development under the guise of “agriculture.”
The application proposes numerous new structures and uses—including greenhouse pads,
barns, a lumber mill pad, bee houses, observation decks, and bridges. While framed as
“agricultural accessory uses,” these are effectively new developments that would intensify
land use in an area intended for watershed protection and low-impact conservation.

2. Water source protection risks.
The property lies entirely within Emigration Improvement District’s drinking water source
protection area. Several proposed uses (maple syrup processing, apiary operations, sawmill
and lumber processing, greenhouse/nursery) are classified as restricted uses in this zone and
would require special approval. Designating this land as an APA could complicate oversight
and introduce unacceptable risks to our shared drinking water supply.

3. Traffic, access roads, and safety.
The plan to construct and grade a private access road through steep canyon terrain raises
concerns about erosion, slope stability, and fire safety. Additional vehicle access in a
wildland–urban interface area increases ignition risk and would strain already-limited
emergency response capacity.

4. Wildfire and environmental hazards.
The introduction of sawmill operations and increased human activity would heighten wildfire
danger, not reduce it. While fuels management is listed as a benefit, the cumulative impacts of
roads, structures, and operations may actually worsen risks in this fragile canyon ecosystem.  

5. Precedent for canyon development.
Granting APA status in this case would set a precedent for expanded development across other
canyon parcels under the guise of “agriculture.” This would undermine the FR-20 and FCOZ
zoning standards, which prioritize watershed health, scenic preservation, and very limited use.

6. Lack of neighbor engagement.
The application process has not required direct notification or engagement with neighboring
property owners. Yet the impacts—water quality risks, increased traffic, fire danger, and
environmental degradation—would affect the entire community, not just the applicant’s
parcel.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge you to deny this APA application. Emigration Canyon is
a unique and fragile environment, and it is vital that we prioritize watershed protection, fire
safety, and preservation of the canyon’s character over unnecessary development.

Thank you for your consideration of my concerns.

Sincerely,
Julie Christenson
(801) 907-1467
6298 E. Lefthand Fork Ln.
6717 E. Quarter Mile Rd.
6715 E. Quarter Mile Rd.
From:              Sally Patrick
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Freeze Creek Forest APA
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 9:41:20 PM



   You don't often get email from sally.patrick@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

To Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

Dear Ms. Baun
I write to you in opposition of a Freeze Creek Forest Agricultural Protection Area, which is an
application in process.

I have been a resident in Emigration Oaks for the last 13 years, and before that, lived on
Emigration Canyon Road in the early 1980s. I value the efforts of the city, county, and state
to protect this canyon gem so close to our state capital. Development is restricted due to
water, air, and wildfire considerations. These protections provide hundreds of acres, close to
the city, for all to enjoy.

The proposed 40-acre Agricultural Protection Area (APA) at the top of Freeze Creek is trying
to use the state of Utah's valid protection of actual agricultural land to "protect" land that is not
at all agricultural and is not at all accessible. The current owner bought this property in full
knowledge that it did not have road access and, in claiming new state protections, is trying to
build a road to his property and develop land which will never be valid agriculture. This
access would be through jointly owned private property within Emigration Oaks. If he gets
this designation, it could ultimately be removed, leaving a road built and development of 40
acres above already privately owned property and wells which serve our community. This
would be a misuse of the state's ADA designation for private gain.  

I would encourage those who will decide this issue to hike the Upper Freeze Creek Trail as I
often do. The private road to the well house forks off into thick forest cover along the stream.
As you climb, the overstory becomes more and more dense. You will encounter all manner of
wildlife-deer, elk, moose, coyotes and countless other scurrying creatures. Emigration Oaks
volunteers maintain the trail until you come upon the current landowner's landlocked, ill-kept
encampment. It is inconceivable to imagine "agriculture" within this setting and even more
disturbing to consider what would be destroyed if such protection were ever lifted to allow
development.  The city would give up zoning authority, the ability to
control structures (building permits), and eminent domain power if this is approved.

I strongly oppose this APA application. It is a Trojan horse that will negatively impact the
quality of life and environmental safeguards of Emigration Oaks and the surrounding well-
managed neighborhoods of Emigration Canyon.

Respectfully submitted,
Sally Patrick
838 N Pioneer Fork Road
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
801 910-4041
From:              Naomi Keller
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Leick"s Freeze Creek Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:39:47 AM



   You don't often get email from tandnkeller@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Ms Baun:

I am a resident of Emigration Oaks (290 North Middle Oak Lane), writing to express
opposition to Mr. Leick's continued efforts to exploit the lot he purchased knowing there was
no access permitted through the private Emigration Oaks community.

For years, Mr. Leick has petitioned for right of way/access to his property. He purchased the
land knowing that it had no right of way/access through Emigration Oaks. Yet he continues to
impose his intent to trespass -- now to the extreme of making a commercial/public enterprise
on his land-locked parcel.

I strongly oppose his continued petitions. I appreciate the Emigration Canyon City Council
and Emigration Canyon Planning Commission fulfilling its obligations to serve our
community -- and representing our opinions to oppose Mr. Leick's efforts.

Kind regards,
Naomi Keller
801.554.0023
From:              Alysse Mengason
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Proposed Agricultural Protection Area and Development in Upper Freeze Creek
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:45:36 AM



   You don't often get email from alyssemengason@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council and the Emigration Canyon Planning
Commission,

We are writing to respectfully but firmly oppose the request by Ryan Leick to establish an
Agricultural Protection Area and to proceed with the proposed development of his property in
Upper Freeze Creek.

His plans include construction of multiple new structures—a barn, lumber mill,
Slovenian bee house, and a large public viewing platform—as well as the planting of
approximately 125 new plant, tree, and shrub species, many of which are non-native
to this sensitive canyon environment. Additionally, his intention to graze pigs, goats,
and sheep directly above our shared well raises serious concerns regarding water
quality, watershed health, and public safety.

Further, the proposal to build a new road and bridge to access this property would significantly
alter the character of the canyon, increase traffic and noise, and put strain on fragile
infrastructure. The fact that Mr. Leick is currently pursuing litigation against The Oaks, Salt
Lake City, and Emigration Canyon in order to force public access for his intended agrotourism
operation highlights the potential consequences if Agricultural Protection Area status is
granted. Such a designation would likely strengthen his legal position and make it more
difficult for the community to protect its water, land use integrity, and quiet residential
character.

The residents of Emigration Canyon value its natural beauty, watershed protection, and
peaceful environment. The scale and scope of this proposed development pose risks that are
incompatible with those values. For these reasons, we urge you to deny Mr. Leick’s request
for Agricultural Protection Area designation and to carefully consider the negative long-term
impacts of this proposed project on the canyon and its residents.

Thank you for your time and for your service in protecting the health, safety, and
unique environment of Emigration Canyon.

Respectfully,

J Andrew and Alysse Mengason

5832 East Pioneer Fork Rd.


Alysse Mengason
248-408-0075
alyssemengason@gmail.com
From:              Bernard van Ginkel
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Reference: File: OAM2025-001470, Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 10:34:24 AM



   You don't often get email from bernardvanginkel@proton.me. Learn why this is important

                                           Bernard van Ginkel
                                                5591 E Twin Creek Road
                                              Salt Lake City UT 84108-3604
                                                      United States
                                                      801-879-1687
                                              bernardvanginkel@proton.me


September 21, 2025
Diana Baun
Emigration Canyon City Council

Reference: File: OAM2025-001470, Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Dear Diana,
I am writing to state my strong opposition to the petition by Mr. Leick to create an
Agricultural Protection Area for the parcel mentioned above.
I am a resident of the Emigration Oaks community, and a frequent recreational user of the
hiking path in Freeze Creek Canyon, which runs through this parcel. I love and appreciate the
indigenous forest in Freeze Creek Canyon. Turning this piece of land into use for farming,
would destroy the beauty and tranquility of the whole area and neighborhood. More
importantly, it would destroy an indigenous forest, which could never be replaced once it is
destroyed. Since buying the property, Mr. Leick has already turned a pristine canyon forest
into an eye sore. He put up plastic lines to tap maples. He has cut down swaths of indigenous
forest. He placed plastic storage and various other implements on the property next to Freeze
Creek.
The parcel was bought with no water rights or access. The use of this parcel for farming
would pose a grave danger to our already precarious water supply. Mr. Leick has
installed a compost toilet close to Freeze Creek, which poses a threat to the water supply for
the neighborhood. One of the main wells used for our water supply is downstream less than a
mile away. Farming this parcel would greatly increase the risk of contaminating our water
supply with chemicals and harmful bacteria.
Mr. Leick bought this parcel full well knowing that it had no road access. In order to use this
parcel for farming, the use of Emigration Oaks private roads will be necessary. Such road use
will cause noise disturbances, possible road damage and a general nuisance to the
neighborhood.
Per report, Mr. Leick intends to use fire to burn down sections of the forest for agricultural
use. Any fire in this area poses a grave danger to the whole community. We all live in an
extremely fire susceptible forest.
I would love to retain the indigenous forest of this parcel with all it offers for everyone in this
community. For the the reasons stated above, I would implore the Emigration Canyon City
Council will deny this petition.
Sincerely yours,
Bernard van Ginkel
From:              Andrew Smith
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Reference: File: OAM2025-001470, Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 10:26:48 AM


   You don't often get email from andrew.smith2@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important


Diana Baun
Emigration Canyon City Council

Reference: File: OAM2025-001470, Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002



Dear Diana,



I am writing to respectfully share my concerns regarding Mr. Leick’s petition to create an Agricultural
Protection Area for the parcel noted above.



As a resident of the Emigration Oaks community and a frequent hiker in Freeze Creek Canyon, I deeply
value the canyon’s natural beauty and the irreplaceable indigenous forest it holds. The area is not only a
source of recreation and tranquility but also an important part of our shared environment. Converting this
land to agricultural use would irreversibly alter the landscape, removing native forest that cannot be
replaced once lost.



Since the property was purchased, noticeable changes have already impacted the canyon’s character.
Plastic tubing has been installed for tapping maples, sections of forest have been cleared, and storage
items have been placed near Freeze Creek. These actions have raised concerns among community
members about the long-term preservation of the canyon’s natural integrity.



Water resources are another important issue. The parcel has no water rights or access, and its
development for agricultural purposes could further strain our already limited water supply. Additionally,
the installation of a composting toilet near Freeze Creek presents potential risks to water quality, as one
of our primary wells is located less than a mile downstream. Expanding agricultural activity in this area
could heighten the risk of contamination from chemicals and bacteria.



Road access is also a challenge. The property has no direct access, and farming operations would likely
require the use of Emigration Oaks’ private roads. This could introduce noise, traffic, and wear that would
affect the quality of life for nearby residents.



Finally, I understand that the proposal may involve clearing forest with fire. Given the high fire
susceptibility of our canyon, any intentional burning poses a significant risk to the safety of our entire
community.



For these reasons, I respectfully urge the Emigration Canyon City Council to deny this petition. I believe it
is in the best interest of our community, our water resources, and the preservation of the canyon’s natural
environment to protect the indigenous forest in Freeze Creek Canyon.



Thank you for your time and thoughtful consideration.



Sincerely,


Andrew Smith, MD, MS
5591 E Twin Creek Rd
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
513-720-0970
From:              Lisa Flores
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Ryan Leick, Freeze Creek proposal
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:55:47 AM



   You don't often get email from langela41@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun,

I write as a resident of Emigration Oaks to voice my concerns with and opposition to Ryan
Leick's proposed development of a farm on his property in Freeze Creek.

According to the information I have received, Mr. Leick plans to introduce numerous non-
native plants on his property. Emigration Oaks and Emigration Canyon are already seeing the
dangerous and long term effects of non native plants, many of which intensify the existing
threats of our drought conditions.

Mr. Leick's plans to introduce pigs, goats, and sheep will almost certainly threaten our water
supply overall and our drinking water more specifically. In addition, the farm interrupts the
existing ecosystem. His goals of establishing road access, should he realize those goals, will
most certainly endanger existing wildlife.

I ask that the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission reject his proposal and instead
preserve the beauty and balance of life.

sincerely,
Lisa Flores
5415 E Pioneer Fork Rd
From:              Russell Vinik
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Opposition to Ryan Leick"s request for Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 8:34:16 AM



   You don't often get email from rvinik@yahoo.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Ms. Baun.

As a resident of Emigration Canyon at 350 N. Middle Oak Ln, I am writing to express opposition to Mr
Leick's request to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural Protection Area. My understanding
is Mr Leick purchased this parcel knowing that the parcel did not have access through the private
Emigration Oaks Neighborhood, yet he is pursuing this proposal as a work-around to obtain access to an
environmentally sensitive area through a private community. This proposal would violate the CC&R's of
the Emigration Oaks HOA and risks significant damage to Freeze Cree Watershed which provides water
to Emigration Canyon. This also creates significant fire risk to the entire canyon.  

Respectfully Submitted
Russell Vinik
350 N. Middle Oak Ln
Emigration Canyon, Utah 84108
From:              Ryan Ashton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Please don"t allow creation of and agricultural protection area at SE ¼ SE ¼ Section 20, T1N, R2E External
                   Inbox
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 3:28:16 PM



   You don't often get email from ryan@ashcan-films.com. Learn why this is important


Ms. Baun:

As a homeowner in the Emigration Oaks development I respectfully ask that you not grant or
approve the request for an Agricultural Protection Area for the property described as the
southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian.

My reasons are several:

        1. The request is inconsistent with the current zoning
           The land is zoned FR-20 and APA designation would be in direct conflict that zoning
           intent and counter to the county's best interest.

        2. APA offers rights that risk the critical watershed
           Grazing, elevated human use and agricultural activity put at risk this watershed vital
           to the residents of the canyon. My understanding is that an APA designation will
           make it more difficult for the county to control or prevent activity that will risk water
           quality for 100s of families.

        3. Mr. Leitz is seeking to expand his rights to the detriment of an easement
           understanding with the Emigration Oaks HOA
           In point of fact, Mr. Leitz is already fraudulently claiming, via posted signage on his
           property, that he has the protections of APA. Such actions are consistent with Mr.
           Leitz clear disregard for the property rights of Emigration Home owners and it's clear
           to me at least that he cannot be trusted to honor agreements and will only continue to
           work to expand his property rights at the expense of others.

        4. A Terrible Precedent if granted
           Approving an APA like the one sought here lowers the bar for other canyon property
           owners to leverage sub-zoning or other loopholes to achieve their personal, often
           selfish ends, to the detriment of all canyon residents. In effect, creating a concentrated
           benefit for certain canyon property owners with a distributed cost borne by the rest of
           the canyon residents and the county itself.

Please do not grant additional rights to this property owner at the expense of the Canyon, the
city and the county. Thank you for giving my concerns your kind consideration

Ryan Ashton
758 N. Donner Hill Circle (lot 113)
801 598-6800
From:              Lindy Burton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Please vote NO
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 7:55:01 PM



   You don't often get email from lindy.burton@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

To Whom it May Concern,
I am a resident of Emigration Oaks community and our family has lived in the Oaks
for 30 years. I am asking that you vote a huge strong NO to the Proposal for
Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area that has been requested by Ryan
Leich.  
I am asking you to vote no as I strongly oppose the impact granting that proposal
would have on the quality of our neighborhood ( environmental impact, increased
traffic, wildfire danger, and ruining a place where I hike almost daily for the past 30
years). Please don't allow damage to our neighborhood to let someone use this
precious place to make some money!
Thank you for your consideration,
Sincerely,
Lindy S. Burton & Mark K. Burton, Ph.D.
5546 Pioneer Fork Rd.


--
Email is not considered a secure medium. Therefore, confidentiality cannot be guaranteed.

Lindy S. Burton, L.C.S.W.
Aspen Grove Counseling, LLC
1433 South 1100 East
SLC UT 84105
801-581-0422 ext.#2 (Fax)888-419-6451
From:              David Nimkin
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Proposal for Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 9:08:03 AM



   You don't often get email from dnimkin@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

For over thirteen years, my wife and I have lived in the Emigration Oaks neighborhood and
have appreciated and enjoyed the opportunity and privilege to hike up and around the upper
Freeze Creek drainage that is under consideration, via application by Ryan Leick, for an
agricultural protection area by the Emigration Canyon City Council. We have carefully
reviewed the proposal and have acquainted ourselves with the general concept of an
agricultural protection area. It is our opinion that this sort of designation is wholly
inappropriate and incompatible with our community, with our safety and with the
environment. We strongly encourage that the Planning Commission and the City Council deny
this proposal. Here are our concerns:

       A commercial operation represented as “agritourism” is incompatible and inconsistent
       with the character of our community and with the land use of the area. There would be
       increased public visitation requiring infrastructure. Adoption of this sort of land use
       would then enable the owner to circumvent necessary local land use controls and is a
       prescription for likely abuse and conflict.
       We are concerned that the nature of the proposed commercialization of this agribusiness
       will have profound impact on our watershed with necessary manipulations and
       development - again without adequate oversight authority.
       As a community we have a very high level of concern for wildfire potential with
       wildlands adjacent to our homes. We have made substantial investments to make our
       home “firewise” and we know this to be of great concern to our neighbors. It is, indeed,
       a serious threat to our well being and safety to have a commercial operation, without
       adequate oversight authority, enabled within this wildland area.
       We invest a great deal of time and effort to eliminate invasive and noxious plants on our
       property and in our community. We are concerned that introduction of an agribusiness
       will profoundly compromise our efforts.
       In addition to the concerns we have for the potential harm from development activities
       on the subject property, we have serious reservations about the need to road construction
       that may be necessary to support the agritourism and agricultural endeavors that are
       contemplated with this application. It is wholly incompatible with our community and
       land use - and it is dangerous.


There indeed may be places for consideration of an agricultural protection area but not in this
place. It is incompatible with the land use of the adjacent Emigration Oaks community and it
appears to enable an unregulated threat to our safety and well being. We strongly request that
you reject this application.

David Nimkin
Dorothee Martens
6249 E Marathon Lane
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
801 518-1270
From:               Lynne Kerr
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Proposed agricultural area in Emigration Canyon
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 11:55:19 AM




[You don't often get email from lynnekerr@me.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

I am writing against the proposal to create an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon.    I am very
worried that the proposal would affect our water supply and our wild areas in terms of our mountain animals (birds,
deer, elk, moose, raccoons, etc.). We are already at risk of wildfires here and this project would increase the danger
to Emigration Oaks and the surrounding foothills. New roads would also impact our mountain home, Emigration
Oaks, in terms of traffic, but even worse it would put a road where currently there are only amazing hiking trails.

Thank you very much for your attention.

Lynne Kerr
617 Pioneer Fork Road, SLC, UT 84108

'
From:              mdiehl sisna.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Proposed agritourism project in Emigration Oaks
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 10:11:24 AM



   You don't often get email from mdiehl@sisna.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baum,

I am a resident and homeowner in Emigration Oaks. The request being made for an
Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Oaks should not be granted.  

Our safety would be greatly compromised by this "agritourism" project. Fire risk,
something we all take very seriously and make efforts to mitigate, would increase.
Having livestock above our well would negatively affect our ability to have safe
drinking water. The construction of a road alongside Freeze Creek would also be
incredibly disruptive. Traffic and road damage to the private roads we all pay to
maintain are also a huge issue.

Please do not allow this property to have an APA designation.

Thank you,

Michael Diehl
Emigration Oaks
From:              Anna Dunn
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Proposed Freeze Creek agricultural area
Date:              Thursday, September 18, 2025 7:40:13 AM



   You don't often get email from annaedunn@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hi,

I am against allowing a proposed Freeze Creek agricultural area in Emigration Canyon. The
proposed farming techniques include no suggestions for watering and establishing new
“crops” while admitting that there are no water rights tied to the property (pg 9). The report
also glosses over the fact that the freeze creek drainage system is an important source of water
for many of the canyon’s residents. Agricultural use increases water use. Without costly
oversight to make sure water is not diverted from the stream and springs running through the
proposed agricultural area the risk of allowing farming, even if service berries, could endanger
an already stressed water system- especially in drought years.

Thank you!

Anna
As a resident of Emigration Canyon (specifically Emigration Oaks subdivision) I have grave
concerns about this proposal.

First, I do not believe the area in question meets the criteria to be designated an agricultural
protected zone based on UDFA 17-41-305 Criteria to be Applied in Evaluating a Proposal for
Creation of a Protection Area.

1. Whether or not the land is currently being used for agricultural production.
This area is landlocked primary forest. It is not currently zoned or used for any substantive
agricultural production. Is tapping 25 maple trees sufficient to be considered cultivation of
useful plants and animals with reasonable expectation of profit? Was any significant amount of
maple syrup collected, processed or sold? I ask the same question of the native fruit harvest, and
production from whatever bees are currently there. I hope the people evaluating this proposal
will answer these questions by touring the property and seeing for themselves whether any
reasonable person would deem it a farm or agrotourism site. All other activities you are being
asked to consider are proposed and or planned.

2 Whether or not the land is zoned for agricultural use.
Emigration canyon is not an agriculture zone.

3 Whether or not the land is viable for agriculture production

It is currently not zoned for agricultural use. The mountainous arid semi desert climate, poor
rocky soil and elevations in excess of 6000 feet make it extremely challenging to establish new
growth. New plants require continuous support. I live below the property in question and my
experience has been that even with irrigation, weeding and a dog on site to deter animals, new
plants are generally eaten, or die from inability to establish a root system. The ground quickly
becomes hard and dry leaving a place for invasive species to establish themselves. I am
concerned that the proposed changes to the topography and biodiversity will have unforeseen
consequences to the complex and fragile ecosystem which has developed in such a harsh
growing environment.

There is no sewer, road access or electricity available at the property making most of the
proposed activities impossible. The only way to transport human waste, lumber, or other produce
to or from this land is through miles of trail or helicopter. The property owner has repeatedly
been denied permission to access this land through private property as well as Salt Lake City
Public Utilities watershed lands. He is currently suing Salt Lake City, The City of Emigration
Canyon and the residents of Emigration Oaks for rights to build a road through their property. I
mention this to demonstrate that as the situation currently exists the property is not viable for
agricultural production or Argo tourism. It seems likely that he is using this application to gain
credence to his claim that the property is a farm and as such has the right to access private roads
and build a road through private property.

4 The extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvement.
Agrotourism-is not currently feasible. There is no electricity, sewer system or road access to the
property. How will people get there, where will they park, what bathroom will they use?

Risks to health and safety

I have many concerns about the risks to health and safety posed by the proposals outlined in
Mr. Leick’s website freezecreek.org. Regarding the silviculture practices he plans to
implement he states, “There is insufficient research evaluating these practices” This
statement coupled with the many illustrative photographs which are not from even
remotely similar ecosystems leads me to believe that he plans to experiment on the land
within our watershed. For example, there are several photographs of PawPaw. This plant is
not a native species and likely will not grow at 6000 feet in an alpine environment.

Here are some examples of proposed activities and my concerns.

Using pigs, goats and chickens to clear vegetation and spread fertilizer. All three of these
animals can be dangerous to the watershed because they can carry pathogens such as E
coli and Salmonella which can contaminate our drinking water. Waste from these animals
can lead to elevated nitrite levels in drinking water. This can cause methemoglobinemia in
infants which can be deadly. Excess nitrogen from fertilization will run off into the freeze
creek watershed and may cause algae blooms. Goats have been in use in the canyon to
clear vegetation and in my experience even with constant supervision of a human, herding
dogs and physical fencing frequently escape. They eat absolutely everything in their path
leaving the ground wide open to invasive species such as white top and myrtle spurge. With
no electricity, road access or sewage system in place husbandry of these animals would be
impossible. All three of these species can be difficult to contain and can become feral.
Homeowners in the canyon are generally not permitted to keep these animals. I assume
these are just a few of the reasons. Finally introducing these animals into the habitat of
predators such as coyote, mountain lion, bobcat and bears will surely change their natural
hunting habits and could lead to an increase in human, wildlife and pet interactions. (note
the presence of these animals on the property is clearly documented in trail cam footage
on the freezecreek.org website).


Fire
The building of new structures in the absence of water or access by ﬁre crews poses a
serious ﬁre risk to the surrounding area. In 2007 a ﬁre started during construction of the ﬁre
station when construction workers using grinders on concrete and rebar accidently ignited
dry grass in the area. The current and future plans outlined involve use of gas generator,
chain saws and other construction equipment. Timber has already been cut and left on the
ground in the area. This poses an increase in ﬁre risk. Finally, this application includes pile
burning. Terrifying and highly unlikely to be approved. I would like to request that the
application if approved by modiﬁed to exclude pile burning under any circumstances.
Impacts to the environment and ecosystem
Apiary (beekeeping) can negatively impact native pollinators by increasing competition for
food resources and by spreading diseases and parasites. Unforeseen impacts of water
quality and availability on the Freeze Creek drainage have not been sufficiently explored or
mitigated. The strategy of providing water for irrigation through change application sounds
like he would be taking more water from the Freeze Creek drainage in exchange for water
rights somewhere else which would not be available to the current users. His application
also includes perennial water sources and approved wastewater handling. Obviously very
important for the quantity and quality of the water in the watershed but how would either of
these things be accomplished?


In summary I do not think this property is appropriate for the Agricultural protection area
program. This program seems to be intended to protect and preserve existing agricultural
properties from harassment and encroachment by a political subdivision unless the law
ordinance or regulation bears a direct relationship to public health and safety. This property
is not currently a farm. Many of the proposed changes to the property for the purposes of
turning it into a farm present signiﬁcant risk to the health and safety of the surrounding
community. The methods proposed have not been tried in this ecosystem. Many
assumptions have been made about the potential positive impact to the environment and
water shed but no risk assessment or proof of concept has been offered.


Thank you for considering my comments



Carolyn Lynch
6107 E Last Camp Circle
Salt Lake City UT 84108
From:               Theodore Paisley
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            Public comment File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 2:42:41 PM




[You don't often get email from tpaisley@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

To: Diana Baum, City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

From: Ted Paisley, 525 N. Pioneer Fork Road, SLC, UT 84108

Thank you for providing an opportunity to discuss this proposal.

I am against the proposal to allow an Agricultural Protection Area as proposed by Ryan Leick for many reasons, but
the most important to me are the following:

The risk of fire danger would increase both during the development and maintenance of the area

The use of water to grow the berry crops he describes would be large, and likely otr of preparation to use by other
resident in Emigration Canyon

The development of roads to access the the area would have a negative impact on both the current hiking trails, as
well as Emigration Oaks, as he would need to cut through and stage construction on their private roads.

Per his goal of having a destination agritourism location, that would then mean having any and all visitors travel
through what are now private roads, nullifying that designation, and significantly devaluing adjacent properties.

Thank you for your consideration.

Ted Paisley

8015992949
From:              Carolyn Lynch
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Public comment on proposal to designate parcel 10-20-400-002 as an agricultural protection area
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 9:25:05 AM
Attachments:       public comment.docx



   You don't often get email from carolyn.lynch66@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

As a resident of Emigration Canyon (specifically Emigration Oaks subdivision) I have grave
concerns about this proposal

I wish to submit the attached word document as public comment.
From:              Brent Bowman
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Re: Emigration Canyon Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
Date:              Saturday, September 20, 2025 3:33:57 PM



   You don't often get email from brent2489@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Some additional thoughts....


We believe the proposal, if approved, would have profound and irreversible negative impacts
on the community of Emigration Oaks and the delicate ecosystem of Emigration Canyon.The
planned construction, operation, and the associated employee and visitor traffic raise serious
questions about their impact on our private roads. These roads are not designed to handle the
increased volume, especially from heavy machinery and daily commuters. This influx would
not only degrade the road infrastructure but also fundamentally alter the quiet, rural character
that defines our community. The proposal also introduces significant risks to public safety,
given the narrow and winding nature of the canyon's roads.

Furthermore, we are deeply concerned about the environmental implications. The operation
could pose a significant threat to our local water sources and the surrounding environment,
potentially introducing non-native plant and animal species that could disrupt the natural
balance of the canyon. The increased activity in this already fire-prone region also introduces
a heightened risk of wildfire, a danger that could threaten not just the proposed site, but the
entire canyon community.

Perhaps most critically, we understand that approval of this request would require the city to
relinquish its zoning authority, control over building permits, and eminent domain power
within the proposed area. This loss of oversight would effectively strip the city of its ability to
manage future development and protect the interests of its residents. The potential need for a
new road along Freeze Creek to serve the farm would further compound these issues,
fragmenting the landscape and creating additional infrastructure and environmental burdens.

We urge you to carefully consider these concerns and the long-term consequences of this
proposal. We believe that protecting the integrity of our community and the natural
environment of Emigration Canyon must be the top priority. We are confident that a more
sustainable and less impactful solution can be found, one that does not compromise the safety,
character, and environmental health of our community.We are available to discuss these
matters further and provide additional context if needed.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Brent and Wendy Bowman
5947 E Pioneer Ridge Circle, SLC, UT 84108
678.576.3047 cell


__________________________________
Brent Bowman
brent2489@gmail.com
On Fri, Sep 19, 2025, 1:57 PM Brent Bowman <brent2489@gmail.com> wrote:
 To whom it may concern.....

 Regarding the following parcel:
 Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
 Acreage: 40 acres
 Legal Description: SE 1/4 of SE 1/4 of Section 20, T 1N R 2E SLBM
 Agricultural Use: Agroforestry and conservation

 When this person purchased this property they were well aware that it was landlocked with
 no access from Emigration Oaks. Since the purchase he has tried numerous ways to gain
 access thru our HOA lands. We have denied his access to the property thru our roads and
 private lands.

 This is just another ploy to gain some type of access to the property. As a homeowner in
 Emigration Canyon and Emigration Oaks, we are 100% against this rezoning of this
 property.

 Thank you for your time and consideration in this matter.

 Brent and Wendy Bowman
 5947 E Pioneer Ridge Circle, SLC, UT 84108
 678.576.3047 cell


 __________________________________
From:               Raul Peragallo
To:                 Diana Baun
Subject:            RE: File: OAM2025-001470
Date:               Thursday, September 25, 2025 8:27:34 PM



   You don't often get email from rperagallo@mac.com. Learn why this is important
RE: File: OAM2025-001470
Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road.
Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)


To the Members of the Emigration Canyon City Council, Care of Diana Baun,

I am writing to oppose the request to create an Agriculture Protection Area for Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002
(Acreage: 40 acres) Road. Such a change would have severe and lasting consequences for residents of Emigration
Oaks, Emigration Canyon and more importantly, the environment.

The neighborhood of Emigration Oaks relies on private roads that cannot handle construction vehicles, farm
equipment, or employee traffic. Beyond traffic concerns, farm operations would change the quiet character of the
neighborhood and create unacceptable safety risks, particularly wildfire hazards. Freeze Creek is the water source
for Emigration Oaks and beyond, such as for those in Margarithe Lane. There is also the annual risk of Spring
flooding to take into consideration, especially with the potential downstream impacts from a farm. The fragile water
system, already under pressure, would face new demands and possible contamination.

Additionally, the introduction of non-native plant or animal species could disrupt local ecosystems, and the need for
a service road along Freeze Creek would permanently scar the landscape. This is a pristine riparian creek, used as a
corridor for wildlife. I have seen moose, deer, and bobcats using this corridor and know from my neighbors that
mountain lions are also around, although I have not witnessed one yet.  

The community of Emigration Oaks has a very active native plant and weed group that spends the Spring and
Summer months on education and invasive plant action. This is a community that cares deeply about the native Utah
habitat. The impacts from developing this natural area are incompatible with the purpose and spirit of Emigration
Canyon as a residential and natural refuge.

When this individual purchased this property he was well aware that it was landlocked with no access from
Emigration Oaks. Since the purchase he has tried numerous ways to gain access through our HOA lands. We have
denied his access to the property through our roads and private lands.

This is just another ploy to gain some type of access to the property. As a homeowner in Emigration Canyon and
Emigration Oaks, we are 100% against this rezoning of this property.

For these reasons, I strongly urge you to deny the proposal.

Sincerely,


Raul Peragallo & Lee Beckstead
5905 E Pioneer Ridge Cir
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
rperagallo@mac.com
(801) 230-6665
From:              Doug Brockmeyer
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Re: Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area in Emigration Canyon submitted by Mr.
                   Ryan Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:25:09 PM



   You don't often get email from dlbcasa@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms Baun,

My name is Douglas Brockmeyer, my wife and I have lived in Emigration Oaks for the past 8
years.
We are strongly opposed to Mr. Leick's proposal to create an Agricultural Protection Area in
Freeze Creek Canyon.

Here are our reasons:
We are enthusiastic, year-round users of the Freeze Creek trail system and surrounding areas.
We deeply appreciate the natural beauty of the area, the wildlife, the native vegetation and the
quiet.
We watched with dismay when Mr. Leick bought his property, posted signage, and
immediately started making "improvements" in the middle of an otherwise pristine
wilderness-type area, including clearing a pasture, making camp improvements and putting up
an unsightly wood structure.
We watched with horror when he brought a vehicle and heavy equipment in with a helicopter.
We scratched our heads when he started harvesting syrup without an agricultural permit,
leaving unsightly plastic tubing drilled into trees year-round. But now we understand why he
did it: to claim "The parcel is in active agricultural use for sugar production (UTAH CODE §
17-41-101)" to support his proposal.
Here are several other reasons we are terrified that Mr. Leick with permanently scar and alter
the ecosystem in Freeze Creek Canyon:
From:              B Vargo
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Re: Opposition to the recent Notice of Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Sunday, September 21, 2025 12:45:26 AM



   You don't often get email from bv2@me.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Emigration Canyon City Council,
I am writing to formally oppose the proposed creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
(“APA”) as outlined in the recent Notice of Proposal. While I value and respect the purpose of
establishing APAs to preserve genuine agricultural land for farming and related uses, the
circumstances in this case do not align with the intent of the statute.

As someone who was raised on a family farm, I understand firsthand the importance of
protecting true agricultural land and the integrity of this designation. Agricultural Protection
Areas are a vital tool to sustain farming operations and preserve open farmland for future
generations.

In this instance, however, the property in question is not being used, nor is it intended to be
used, for bona fide agricultural purposes. Rather, the designation is being sought in a manner
that undermines the true purpose of agricultural protection. Based on publicly known
information, the underlying intent appears to be the construction of roads and other
development projects across pristine open space. Such actions would result in significant
negative consequences, including disruption of wildlife habitat and increased wildfire risk.

This proposal represents a misuse of the APA designation. Approving it would set a harmful
precedent—allowing the protections intended for working agricultural lands to be co-opted for
unrelated development objectives. Doing so would erode the credibility of the APA program
and compromise the trust of community members who support legitimate agricultural
preservation.

For these reasons, I respectfully urge you to reject this proposal. Agricultural Protection Areas
should remain true to their purpose: safeguarding active farmland and sustaining agricultural
operations, not facilitating development that threatens the natural environment and public
safety.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,
Beverly Vargo
761 N Donner Hill Circle
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
Bv2@me.com
801-699-9028
From:              KIRK J/CA ADVISORS Tanner
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leich Rezone
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 9:28:25 AM



   You don't often get email from caadvisors@comcast.net. Learn why this is important

My name is Kirk Tanner and I live in Emigration Oaks. I'm writing to object to the Ryan
Leich rezoning request. I echo all of the objections you've already heard and would add that
when we did out due diligence to build in the Oaks we looked into zoning issues in the area.
We relied on those zoning decisions that existed when we built our home and to change or
modify any current zoning should not be done without overwhelming and compelling reasons
in the interests of the current owners. We played by the rules. Leich wants to modify the
zoning for his own selfish interests. He should not be allowed to materially disadvantage the
Canyon for his own purposes, especially when he knew what he was buying at the time of his
purchase. He should be required to live with the zoning he purchased, like the rest of us.  
Respectfully, Kirk Tanner
5896 Pioneer Ridge Circle
From:              mike@utahcommercialcontractors.com
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                "Edwin McGough"; "Brad Barber"; eopoapresident@gmail.com; lhmchugh@msn.com
Subject:           Ryan Leick File #OAM2025-001470
Date:              Thursday, September 18, 2025 5:38:01 PM



   You don't often get email from mike@utahcommercialcontractors.com. Learn why this is important

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

I am a resident for the past 20 years residing in Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association. My
address is 6207 Donner Trail Circle, SLC 84108.

Please mark me down as one who is very much against granting an “Agricultural Protection Zone”
for the 40 acres owned by Mr. Leick.
Mr. Leick has demonstrated his disdain for current FCOZ rules and regulations. He has constructed a
“tree house” on his property. It measures approximately 12’ x 16’.
He has cut trees at will. Some dead and some very green. He currently uses a 50 gallon burn barrel.
He has trespassed on private and public property to facilitate the above.
He has recently flown in by helicopter a large six wheel all terrain vehicle to his property. He
currently is going through the court system to allow a road into his property citing historical use of a
road.
I don’t believe Mr. Leick will stop at an “Agricultural Protection Zone”. He will push the limits. He
has no water rights that I am aware of so will he dry irrigate.?
This is water shed for the entire Emigration Community. He has no right to access this water or
pollute the source.
Thank you for your time.

Sincerely,

Michael J McHugh
UTAH COMMERCIAL CONTRACTORS, INC.
CELL 801-694-1730
EMAIL mike@utahcommercialcontractors.com
From:              Carlie Christensen
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick APA
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 5:25:43 PM



   You don't often get email from carliechristensen1@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

                                         Carlie Christensen
                                     6098 East Pioneer Fork Road
                                     Emigration City, Utah 84108
                                           (801) 750-8693

                                            September 26, 2025

Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

Re: Ryan Leick Applicant for Agricultural Protection Area (APA)

Dear Ms. Baun:
I am writing to express my vehement objection to Ryan Leich’s application for
an Agricultural Protection Area (APA) in Freeze Creek Canyon near the
residential neighborhood of Emigration Oaks. I have reviewed the Notice of
Proposal for Creation of an APA filed by Mr. Leich. I have also reviewed Mr.
Leich’s Proposal and Application Materials.
For the following reasons, I am opposed to his application for several reasons.
First, Mr. Leich purchased the property in question almost four years ago and
knew that the property he purchased was landlocked. Despite that limitation,
Mr. Leich repeatedly gained access to his property by trespassing across
property owned by Salt Lake City, the Emigration Improvement District, and
the Emigration Oaks Homeowners Association (HOA). He did this despite being
told multiple times that he was trespassing and access was not allowed through
property owned by others. He did not follow the rules and frequently
misrepresented his plans.
Second, contemporary with his application for APA, Mr. Leich has filed suit
against the HOA in an effort to convert its private road to a public road so that
he can invite the public to his Agrotourism farm, which is described on a sign
placed on his land. Converting the private road that runs through Emigration
Oaks to a public road will deprive the owners in Emigration Oaks of the privacy
they now own and will necessitate additional government funds to construct,
clear and maintain the road which the HOA has historically maintained
Third, if his application is improved, Mr. Leich plans to construct a barn, a
lumber mill, a bee house and a large viewing platform on his property. He also
plans to plant new species of plants, trees and shrubs, not all of which are
native. Finally, he plans to graze pigs, goats and sheep on the portion of his
property above one of the HOA’s water wells. All of these plans will, of course,
require a public road to his property which does not currently exist.
More importantly, however, these plans will destroy the pristine forest in
Freeze Creek Canyon and adversely impact its environment by polluting the
water in the canyon where stock will be grazing and there is no sanitation for
the owner or his tourists. These plans also risk jeopardizing the native plants in
the canyon by choking them out by Mr. Leich’s new species of plants. These
plans will also intrude and disturb the wildlife in the canyon including moose,
deer and coyotes, with grazing animals and vehicles. Finally, these plans will
increase the risk of wildfire danger and operations in the canyon. Mr. Leich has
already placed an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) on his property, (apparently by a
helicopter drop) and if he drives an ATV through or parks on dry grass creates a
significant risk. That likelihood increases with hot, dry, and windy weather in
Utah’s climate.
For all these reasons, and many others you may hear, Mr. Leick’s APA should be
denied.
Sincerely,
CARLIE CHRISTENSEN
From:              Jim Macintyre
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick APA
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:06:10 AM



   You don't often get email from jmacslc@aol.com. Learn why this is important


I am against the designation of the Leick property as an APA.

This seems like an end - around to allow access to his property through our protected
community property.

According to The Utah Department of Agriculture and Food
(https://ag.utah.gov/conservation-division/ag-land-preservation/) APAs have certain
protections.

“Some of the protections that APAs provide to landowners are:

       Prevents a county, city or town from “enacting a local law, ordinance, or
       regulation . . . that would unreasonably restrict: . . . a farm structure or farm
       practice.” (17-41-402)
       Prevents a zoning change on the property without written approval from the
       landowner. (17-41-402)
       Provides a legal defense against nuisance claims if the activity is “not in
       violation of any federal, state, or local law or regulation relating to the alleged
       nuisance or were conducted according to sound agricultural practices” (17-41-
       403)
       Increased protection from eminent domain, “A political subdivision having or
       exercising eminent domain powers may not condemn for any purpose any land
       within an agriculture protection area that is being used for agricultural
       production . . . unless the political subdivision obtains approval, according to the
       procedures and requirements of this section, from the applicable legislative
       body and the [Agriculture] advisory board”. (17-41-405)
       Requires the following statement to be attached to the deed of each property
       that borders within 300 of the APA: “This property is located in the vicinity of an
       established agricultural protection area in which normal agricultural uses and
       activities have been afforded the highest priority use status. It can be
       anticipated that such agricultural uses and activities may now or in the future be
       conducted on property included in the agricultural protection area. The use and
       enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any
       annoyance or inconvenience which may result from such normal agricultural
       uses and activities.” (17-41-403)”

According to Utah State Extension Cooperative Extension

”Mechanisms for Protecting Open Space in Utah. Reviewed December 2011 No.
NR/RF/004
 Robert J. Lilieholm and Charles J. Fausold”
(https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?
article=2558&context=extension_curall/)

“Agricultural Protection Areas In Utah, one or more contiguous agricultural producers
can petition their county to create an agricultural protection area encompassing their
lands. This special designation must be of a minimum size (determined by the
county), and exempts farmers from farm-related nuisance complaints by nearby
residents.”

He recently lost an application to have his property designated a “Lot of Record” with
historical road access (https://propertyrights.utah.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2024/04/280-AO-Ryan-Leick-Amended-Advisory-Opinion-12-28-
2023.pdf ) it appears that he may now looking for protection from regulations, and
complaints from neighbors by establishing an APA. This is a very tenuous pretext
and should be resisted. In one of his earlier filings he claimed that there is existing
access to the property on a "jeep road". I have been up and down the Freeze Creek
trail hundreds of times, and there is no way an ordinary jeep could go up this trail in
its present configuration. The trail is too narrow and rocky. There were no bridges
over the steep ravine and the creek until about 10 years ago when the Boy Scouts
installed them. This would appear to be a specious argument.

Additionally, opening up the area to livestock would threaten the water which we all
depend on. Increased activity would significantly increase the risk of fire in the area,
which could be catastrophic.

Please do not let this proceed.


Jim Macintyre
699 N Donner Hill Circle
Phone: (801) 580-0304
    From:              NORMAN COUNCIL
    To:                Diana Baun
    Subject:           Ryan Leick application
    Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:33:09 PM



       You don't often get email from ncounc@msn.com. Learn why this is important

﻿
Diana Baum
City Recorder,
Emigration Canyon

﻿Dear Diana Baum,

Mr. Leick bought this property after it had unsuccessfully been on the market for three years.
The isolated nature of the property presumably made it difficult to sell. Mr. Leick took a
gamble, and is now apparently trying to rearrange the rules so that he can profit from his
gamble.

The deleterious effects of this proposed development are evident. What is being described as
a "agricultural" use would allow activities that adversely affect watershed, enhance fire risk,
and betray neighboring property owners who acquired their property in good faith.

On this latter point, I do not know if there is any sentiment affecting this decision that sees the
protest from neighbors as a sort of "not in my backyard" plea from an upscale neighborhood.
 Equally, I don't know what the motives are behind the various protests. But if zoning
restrictions are going to be changed, it seems to me they should be changed for the common
good, not to accommodate an individual's entrepreneurship.

Please share this letter with the Emigration Canyon City Council and the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission.

Many thanks,

Norman Council

705 Little Tree Circle
Salt Lake City, UT 84108
From:              mburkley13@gmail.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick Farm
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 11:29:05 AM




[You don't often get email from mburkley13@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

It has been brought to my attention that Ryan Leick would like to build a farm up Freeze Creek in Emigration. I am
a resident of Emigration oaks. I cannot understand how he could build a road up private property, plant non-Maurice
plants and then have pigs that will contaminate our water.
I am vehemently opposed to this. Please consider my opinion.

Meghan Higgins
801-520-5732
Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon

Dear Ms. Baun,

I have lived in Emigration Oaks since 2002 at 345 N. Middle Oak Lane. I am a daily user of
the trails in our neighborhood. I have hiked the Freeze Creek trail, that now crosses Mr.
Leick’s property, long before I moved to Emigration Oaks with friends who lived in the
neighborhood. That trail was well-established even then. I know that trail like the back of
my hand and cannot imagine this steep, rocky canyon to be much other than a wild, natural
environment, with very limited recreational uses. The negative impacts of trying to make
this agricultural land are vast.

Implications
   1. Development of a road to access the land for agriculture production. Mr. Leick knew
      this property was landlocked when he bought it—without a road to access it. Even
      though he tried to get access through Emigration Oaks property to build a road by
      claiming his property as a “lot-of-record,” the Office of the Property Rights
      Ombudsman and the MSD have said, “No.” (See Advisory Opinion 280.) After many
      visits to the area around Freeze Creek, the only feasible access I can see would
      greatly impact property of some Emigration Oak Property owners. And, if built in the
      wrong place, it could greatly affect the ﬂow of Freeze Creek itself.
   2. Water quality and quantity of the Freeze Creek watershed. The little bit of water that
      is available in Freeze Creek year-round seems unsustainable if the addition of land
      for agricultural use is added to the mix.. It concerns me that his “farming” operation
      may take up a vast quantity of the limited water supply in this watershed, whom
      many in Emigration Canyon rely on for drinking water, especially if he intends to
      harvest and grow timber.
   3. Plans for timber production. If one hikes in this area, one would note that the canyon
      is steep, rocky and narrow, with very few quality trees for use as timber. There is a
      small patch of coniferous trees that may be appropriate to harvest. However, once
      that small harvest takes place, it will take many years to grow another forest worthy
      of timber cutting. To make such a business proﬁtable, I would guess it would take a
      lot of additional water and nutrients to get the trees to grow quickly.
   4. Plans for proﬁtable sugar production. There are two native Utah tree species that
      can produce sugar: The Bigtooth Maple (a.k.a. Canyon Maple) and the Boxelder. A
      recommendation from Utah State University, is that maples less than 10 inches
      diameter should not be taped because of the long-term sustainability concerns if
   the trees are too small. We have Canyon Maples in our yard that are 23+ years old
   and are still too small to tap for sugar production if we care about their health. I
   haven’t measured, but I’ll be willing to bet that many on the trees on Mr. Leick’s
   property are not much larger than ours. If he is serious about sugar production, he
   will need to provide more water and nutrients for those trees. According to American
   Society for Horticultural Science, Utah’s arid climate has signiﬁcantly lower annual
   precipitation, which affects sap yield and requires supplemental watering to
   support the trees’ health, especially during prolonged dry spells. Mr. Leick already
   has some type of plastic piping strung throughout the trees on his portion of this
   steep canyon. I’m not sure what he is attempting to do with this piping; perhaps
   gather sap. He also claims he has already sold some of the syrup. Is he paying taxes
   on this revenue?
5. Agri-tourism on this property is also a desire of Mr. Leick’s. Does this mean he will
   be using the roads in Emigration Oaks to deliver his tourist to his property. Currently,
   our HOA receives about $400,000 a year from residents for annual road
   maintenance. This covers road repairs and snowplowing. If Mr. Leick gets the county
   to turn the roads in Emigration Oaks from private to public, will the county be willing
   to cover the $400,000 per year? How does he propose to handle human waste from
   an agri-tourism business?
6. Will Mr. Leick be able to have a “reasonable expectation of proﬁt?” Will he meet
   speciﬁc annual per-acre production values as set by the Utah Tax Commission? Can
   he demonstrate that the land has been in qualifying agricultural use the previous
   two consecutive years to qualify as agricultural status in Utah under the Greenbelt
   Act? According to the map on Utah SGID website (opendata.gis.utah.gov) I see very
   limited land in mountainous areas in Utah that have the designation of Agricultural
   Protection Area status. The few I see are probably being used for mining south of
   Toole. The majority of APAs seem to be in more reasonable areas where agricultural
   production is happening. I don’t understand why he is trying to make this fragile
   piece of land his dream of being a hobby farmer. There seems to be better areas to
   do such business.
7. I noticed on a hike today that Mr. Leick has already posted signs that his property
   has APA status. Is this true? Can he post signs like this before getting approval?
8. If given APA status on this property, it seems to afford Mr. Leick a lot of protection
   from regulations by any entity. This is very troubling considering what he is hoping to
   do on this property. I believe any landowner trying to do business, such as Mr. Leick
   is attempting to on this property should have more oversight, not less.
I cannot believe that Mr. Leick’s dream will add much to the local agricultural economy,
nor will his dream to conserve or protect this land as is the purpose of an APA. It is a
fragile environment that needs our respect not to destroy it by trying to make a pittance
of proﬁt off it.

Respectfully,
Starleen Wood
From:              Christine Hachem
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick proposal
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 10:39:54 AM



   You don't often get email from christine.hachem@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


Dear Diana Baun,

Thank you for taking Emigration Canyon residents input on Ryan Leick's proposal.

I live at 552 north pioneer fork road, emigration canyon with my family. We are AGAINST
the proposal by Ryan Leick to create an agricultural protection area in upper freeze creek.
This proposal would be disruptive to our private neighborhood.He knew the restrictions when
he purchased his lot and has already been told no to many of his initiatives by multiple public
agencies. However, it seems he is trying to make his lot an Agricultural Protection Area to try
to find a loophole. I am not confident that he has emigration canyon's residents or our area as a
priority. I am concerned that if he is allowed to move forward with the agricultural protection
area then it will be difficult to further enforce any of our canyons rules and regulations in
regards to his plans. He has already trespassed in our neighborhood. I also think there will be
a disturbance to the peace and protection of our private neighborhood. I also dont think he has
thought through well his implications of his APA plans in terms of waste management,
disruption of a very important trail system for our residents and the implications of expanding
a public access road and bringing potential tourism and traffic to a private neighborhood.



Thank you for your consideration

The Hachem Family

314-606-3971 cell

552 North Pioneer Fork Road

Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
From:              hwhiteside@xmission.com
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s Agricultural Preservation Project
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:04:05 PM



   You don't often get email from hwhiteside@xmission.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun, Mr. Leick's proposal does not begin to meet even the most minimal
definitions of agricultural land. In the long history of Emigration Canyon, there has
never been farming activity anywhere in Emigration Canyon, for the simple reason
that the canyon is simply unsuitable for agriculture. The sole exception would be open
range grazing of goats by a family that once owned considerable land in the canyon.
The transparent purpose of Mr. Leick's proposal is to evade the land planning, zoning
and health laws that all previous residents of the canyon have met and which have
served them well, maintaining the attractive face of the canyon today. Having
bulldozed his way in and built as he likes, his likely posture will be "Oh, gee, I guess
this isn't a farm after all." Full remediation, even if ordered, would simply be
impossible and Mr. Leick would likely resist every inch of the way. Thank you for
considering this comment.
Henry Whiteside
5215 E. Pioneer Fork Rd
801.512.6609
From:              Steve Newton
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Herman Post
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s APA request
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:56:45 PM



   You don't often get email from steve.newton@me.com. Learn why this is important

Hello,

We received an email about Ryan Leick's intentions about developing his Freeze Creek
property. We are strongly opposed to his proposed land uses, and receiving an Agriculture
Protection Areas (APAs) designation.

Based on the UDAF website, the APA designation is intended to " protect productive
farmland, rangeland, and forest land; promote farm viability; support the local agricultural
economy; and provide for long-term planning stability .” The Ryan Leick property never has
been used as productive farmland or forestland, nor is it well suited for those purposes. While
that land may have been used for sheep grazing long ago, the limited size and its isolation
means that it is poorly suited for future grazing. This property clearly doesn’t fit within the
intent of the APA program, and its designation as a APA should be denied.

From a development perspective, the property is primairly situated on steep slopes in a canyon
setting, and and significant earthwork and regrading will be required for any improvements for
the stated proposed land uses. Regrading will cause significant disturbance and create a
significant and long term erosion concern. Furthermore, the current SLCo site development
requirements require containment of the 100 year storm event. As a Professional Engineer
with previous experience as Construction Manager for SLCo Flood Control, in my opinion it
will be very difficult to create reliable retention ponds or infiltration galleries for storm water.
Furthermore, due to the proposed “farming and livestock” activities on site, stored waters will
likely contain animinal waste and typical aggrictural chemicals. Introducing these into the
water shed will provide a significant threat to a primary community well that is located
directly down canyon from his property.

The proposed improvements will also require fuel storage, and imply cutting a significant
amount of trees, and some type of public uses, which will require parking areas, sanitary
facilities (including septic fields). Why Mr Leick knowingly purchased this land without there
being an established access to the site is a mystery. Development of an access road, if he were
to prevail in his law suites, will have its own construction and erosion issues.


On the face of it, these proposed improvements are totally out of character for a canyon
setting, and this project should be disallowed.

Respectfully,
Steve Newton, P.E.
From:              John K Patton
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s Farm Proposal - Please Vote No or Please Don"t Allow this Use
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 1:33:47 PM



   You don't often get email from jkpgateway@msn.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun,

I am a nearly two-decade resident of the Canyon. My family and I love living here. We
worry about future dangerous developments like this proposal by Ryan Leick, which will
not only ruin this historic, quiet, but rustic way of life by bringing more people and
commercial activity to an already fragile environment. Fires like the ones we've been
getting the smoke from are the biggest reason I think of limiting this kind of commercial
venture in general. All of the proposed activity sounds like a potential fire hazard. The
proposed introduction of non-native species of plants, trees, and shrubs should be
considered unacceptable. Grazing livestock on higher ground to a very vital community
well is unacceptable to the greater well-being of our community's residents. I am not sure
how this process will go, but I trust you and your associates will do the right thing by our
canyon.

Best regards,

John

John Patton, Owner
462 N Marathon Circle
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
801-916-7406 / jkpgateway@msn.com
From:              Shelley Lawrence
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s Freeze Creek Property
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:46:01 PM



   You don't often get email from babydoclawrence@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun:

I am troubled by the ongoing conflicts caused by Mr. Leick and his relentless attacks on my
Emigration Oaks community. He will go to great lengths to persuade my neighbors and me to
support his narcissism and sense of entitlement to access and misuse our private roads for his
financial gain and personal benefit. He further seeks to adulterate our community with the
introduction of new agricultural species that could harm our environment, despite our
struggles with invasive plants, such as Myrtle spurge. Additionally, placing farm animals on his
property might pollute our water supply, as it is upstream from our water source.

I strongly oppose his application to designate his property for Agricultural Protection, as it is
yet another poorly intended attempt to bypass my community's rejection of opening our
private roads to him, despite numerous legal rulings against him. However, this time, his
actions could seriously harm our overall health and well-being. Please stop this madness.

Respectfully,
Shelley M. Lawrence, MD
5653 E Pioneer Fork Rd
Emigration Canyon, UT 84108
From:              Starleen Wood
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                eomanager@gmail.com
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s Potential APA and Business in Emigration Canyon
Date:              Wednesday, September 24, 2025 12:07:20 PM
Attachments:       Ryan Leick Land Use Issue_Diana Baun.docx



   You don't often get email from starleenwood@msn.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Ms. Baun,

Please add my letter to other's from Emigration Canyon who have provided comments on R. Leick's
request for APA status.

Thank you,
Starleen Wood
From:               Sharon McGough
To:                 Diana Baun
Cc:                 Sharon McGough; paul brown
Subject:            Ryan Leick"s proposal to create agricultural development in Emigration Canyon
Date:               Friday, September 19, 2025 11:53:45 AM




[You don't often get email from sharonevemcgough@icloud.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

Dear Diane Baun and to whom it might also concern,

        I am a long-term resident of Emigration Oaks. I am very concerned about Ryan Leick’s proposal for creating
an agricultural area that directly impacts the main hiking trail in our community. He has been blatantly trespassing,
building structures and ignoring the private property boundaries for a few years now. We have all been concerned
about his lack of regard for our community's watershed and also the fire danger he presents when he camps on his
property.
        Perhaps my biggest objection to Mr. Leick’s proposal is the impact he would have on the wildlife here. We
amicably coexist with Mule deer, moose, bobcats, coyotes, raptors and many interesting reptiles. His development
of this area would sadly disrupt the safety and tranquility that both animals and residents have enjoyed for decades.
        As we have all observed Mr. Leick’s disregard for our community, and because we have tried to talk to him
face to face, without any positive outcome, many of us believe that he poses a real threat to our environment.


Best person regards,




Sharon McGough
From:              Jennifer Lair
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Ryan Leick"s proposal
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 2:55:27 PM



   You don't often get email from jenlair@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

September 26, 2025

To Whom It May Concern:

        I am absolutely opposed to Ryan Leick’s proposal to designate his Parcel 10-20-
400-002 as an Agricultural Protection Area for many reasons. I live in Emigration Oaks and
I have hiked the Freeze Creek trail, which parallels his property, countless times, so I know
what the land looks like and I have seen his so-called “agricultural activities.” He has a
series of sap lines that drip into a big plastic tub next to the trail, but nothing beyond that.
He might “harvest” some wild growing berries that happen to be on his parcel, but the land
is not conducive to growing crops for commercial use. His property runs up a steep
drainage with no land “compatible with ‘the raising of crops.”
        Freeze Creek itself, one of the main water supplies to the Emigration Oaks
neighborhood, is either completely dry or a mere trickle for almost the whole year and in no
way can provide irrigation for his crops or his proposed livestock.There is literally no water
and the creek bed is dry almost all the time. Needless to say, the idea of having livestock
on his property is ludicrous as he would have no way to control or dispose of the animal
waste and the watershed would be contaminated by manure and urine slurry. While there
was sheep grazing up Emigration Canyon in the early part of the 20th century, there was
never any sheep grazing up Freeze Creek or on Leick’s parcel because the terrain is not
suitable for grazing. Additionally, sheep grazing is no longer viable anywhere in Emigration
Canyon. In his parcel, the forest overstory prevents any significant pasture grass from
growing, there is no way to irrigate, and the terrain is too steep.
        As far as cutting and hauling timber, if Leick starts removing trees, the slopes will be
destabilised and subject to increased erosion. In order for Leick to implement his plans, he
would have to build massive infrastructure and roads through pristine areas to access his
land. The degradation of his land through this development, as well as the degradation to
the surrounding environment would be truly appalling.
         Leick’s proposal to designate his land agricultural area should be denied. One has
only to hike to the parcel and take a look at his property from the trail to observe how
completely unsuitable his plans are.
        I appreciate your time and consideration in dealing with this issue.
Sincerely, Jennifer Lair
357 North Pioneer Ridge Road
SLC, UT 84108
From:               Beth Sanguinetti
To:                 Diana Baun
Cc:                 Mike Sanguinetti (university)
Subject:            Letter in oppostition to R. Leick APA application
Date:               Friday, September 26, 2025 1:33:18 PM
Attachments:        Sanguinetti opposition to R.Leick APA application.pdf



   You don't often get email from els726130@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Dear Ms. Baun,
We respectfully submit our letter to you to state our opposition to the Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
application submitted by Mr. Ryan Leick. The document is attached.

Kind regards,
Elizabeth Sanguinetti
Diana Baun
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
dbaun@msd.utah.gov

Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun
PO Box 147700
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700



Dear Ms. Baun,

We would like to express our strong opposition to the Agricultural Protection Area (APA)
application from Mr. Ryan Leick. We oppose this application for many reasons, and we
expand upon some of the reasons below.

First, Mr. Leick does not have permission from the three landowners (Emigration
Improvement District (EID), Salt Lake City (SLC), and Emigration Oaks Property Owners
Association (EOPOA)) whose property would need to be crossed to get to his landlocked
property. He was aware before he purchased the property that it was landlocked and that
access rights would probably not be granted; he chose to proceed with the purchase with
that knowledge. He has asked these entities for property access, and they have all denied
these requests. Each of these entities are aware of the risks associated with granting an
easement to him for this property, and have wisely, in our opinion, denied these requests.
We suspect that he is pursuing an APA designation to force agreements on access, which
could give him legal rights that are realistically inappropriate for a property in a Well
Protection zone and in an area with slopes that exceed the generally respected road
construction guidelines to not exceed 10% slope.

Mr. Leick’s stated reason for purchasing the property was “as a retreat for family recreation”
(see p. 13 of 140 in his APA application). An Agricultural Protection Area designation is
absolutely not needed for him and his family to recreate on his property. He and his family
can access his parcel by walking the 3 mile trail from the parking area on Pinecrest Road.
The address on Pinecrest Rd is the address on the Beekeeper license and on the legal
description for taxation purposes, which also supports the idea that he has no access
rights through the private property of EOPOA, EID and SLC. By pursuing an APA
designation, it appears that Mr. Leick is trying to secure legal protections for which he
would not otherwise be granted on a recreational property, which would make it extremely
di icult for Emigration Canyon City, Salt Lake County, Emigration Improvement District,
and Emigration Oaks Property Owners Association, all of whom could have current or
future issues with his proposed land use, to regulate what is done on his property and
detrimental e ects on others nearby.

Mr. Leick states in the Site and Vicinity section (page 132 of 140) “The surrounding
properties are also zoned FR-20 and FCOZ. The only existing structures in the immediate
neighborhood are Emigration Improvement District well facilities approximately ½ mile
south of the property.” This is factual incorrect, with two homes in EOPOA located adjacent
to the EID property, and two others very close by, and many others in the near vicinity. On
page 133 in the application: “There is no requirement to notify adjacent property owners for
permitted use applications.” This is problematic because there are many uses that would
negatively impact neighbors and users of culinary water from the EID wells.

Mr. Leick purchased the landlocked property as a family recreation area but that
purportedly is not the intended use at this time. Now, he is trying to change the use to be a
hobby farm based on “historic use” of the property. He claims, in Goal 2.2, to “Enhance
Community Connectedness and sense of place. Documented historic use (sheep grazing
and livestock watering dating to ~1900) and ongoing stewardship reinforce Emigration’s
heritage and identity.” None of us who live in Emigration Canyon need or want a hobby farm
to appreciate the canyon for its beautiful landscape and populations of native animals. His
intention to continue the historic use of the land for grazing is an outdated use. We know for
a fact that the land in Emigration Canyon Freeze Creek drainage changed from sheep
herding to residential development in 1985 or before – at least forty years ago. The a idavit
in his APA application includes a statement from a Bertagnole family member about sheep
herding, but the document is dated 1976, which does not support a more recent use that
he appears to hint at in his justiﬁcation of restarting livestock use in the Freeze Creek
drainage. It is likely the activities proposed in the APA application would have a signiﬁcant
negative impact on culinary water for hundreds of people in Emigration Canyon.

The introduction of dozens on non-native species in a fragile environment has the potential
to negatively impact the immediate surrounding and the greater Emigration Canyon area.
Was an environmental impact study conducted? If so, we are not aware that it was ever
provided to EOPOA, EID or SLC. We have spent a lot of time and e ort over the past several
years working with the Salt Lake County Weed Coordinator locating and removing noxious
weeds in Emigration Canyon, and especially the Freeze Creek drainage. Development
upstream of the middle section of Freeze Creek, and especially the introduction of dozens
of non-native species, will increase the burden on the SL County Weed Coordinator and the
public who help with this work.

The introduction of commercial quantities of honey bees in the Freeze Creek drainage area
and the greater Emigration Canyon area could also have negative impacts on the native bee
populations. We did an extensive study of the plants found in the Freeze Creek drainage
during 2020-2021, and found about 190 species. The majority of these plants are native
species that are crucial as food sources for the native pollinators, including native bees. In
addition, one of us applied for and was granted two grants of native pollinator plants (330
plants) from the Utah Native Pollinator Plant program to increase the number of pollinator
plants in our area. This planting project was relatively successful. We also know that at
least two other families in EOPOA have applied for plants for the 2025 planting season and
at least one other family in Emigration Canyon participated in 2024 or earlier. None of us
have done this work to beneﬁt Mr. Leick’s commercial honey production plans – we have
done this work to beneﬁt the native bee populations.

Mr. Leick has built several structures on the property and currently claims that the property
is for an “agrotourism” activity. We are not aware of any of these actions being covered by
required permits. He claims to have commercially viable maple syrup production, yet
claims less than 150 gallons of sap harvested. Using a 40:1 sap to syrup conversion, this
accounts for less than 4 gallons of maple syrup. At a retail cost of about $20 per quart
(using costs available on the Smith’s Food and Drug website), his entire production is
valued at less than $160. This clearly is not commercial quantities and is unlikely to ever
be commercial quantities, as suggested in the APA guidelines. We also note that his
application does not describe sanitary facilities, even for family recreation purposes. If he
has a holding tank, how is it serviced by a septic removal service? It seems highly unlikely
that he carries human waste the required three miles to get to Pinecrest Road. If he does
not have sanitary facilities, how is human waste currently handled? His actions in this
regard should be made known to EID and mediated immediately, as appropriate.

Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, he is proposing uses in his APA application that are
not appropriate for land and roads near his property. The easements allowed in 1985 when
the land in the Freeze Creek area was transferred between the Bertagnole parties to Boyer
Company and EOPOA stated that easements were for “pedestrian tra ic; for residential
purposes and for construction and development for residential improvements and
infrastructure; and for the purpose of providing utility lines and services.” No farming or
agricultural uses were anticipated, even from the family whose family-member a idavit is
used in his APA application as support. The address used by Salt Lake County for his
parcel, 1475 Pinecrest Road, is for a location located 3 miles from his parcel. That road
cannot provide the parking that would be needed for people willing to hand carry supplies
or walk to his hobby farm for 3 miles and cannot handle the vehicular tra ic that would be
needed to construct the additional facilities that he proposes, the sta required for a hobby
farm, and clients he wishes to attract. Another option for road access is through three
private parcels, as mentioned earlier in this letter. The closest paved road, Pioneer Fork
Road, is private, and is maintained by EOPOA through dues paid wholly by the property
owners. The road maintenance budget for repairs and snow removal is a signiﬁcant portion
of the yearly budget for EOPOA. Damage done to this private road by trucks working for his
beneﬁt would be borne by people for whom no value would be forthcoming from his
agrotourism business – this is an inappropriate beneﬁt for someone who bought a
landlocked parcel for family recreation and is now looking for a way to salvage his ill-
advised purchase. Ongoing access for his potential future sta for the agrobusiness in the
APA application and for potential clients of the agrobusiness across three private parcels is
also an inappropriate beneﬁt to Mr. Leick.

Please treat his APA application for what it appears to be – an end-run around his errors in
judgment when he purchased a landlocked property for which he knew was unlikely to
have a legal easement. He appears to be trying to ﬁnd some way to force others to give him
a return on his investment at their expense. Please deny his APA application.



Sincerely,

Elizabeth and Michael Sanguinetti

726 N. Donner Hill Circle

Emigration Canyon

Salt Lake City, UT
From:              Jack Vines
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Strong Opposition to Proposal for Creation of an Agricultural Protection Area
Date:              Tuesday, September 23, 2025 3:01:13 PM


   You don't often get email from jack.vinesiii@gmail.com. Learn why this is important
Good afternoon.

I have lived in Emigration Canyon for 15 years in Emigration Oaks. We chose the canyon for its unspoiled
natural beauty and the Oaks specifically because of its private roads and emphasis on quality of life. We
pay HOA dues every year for the upkeep of the roads for the benefit of the residents. I was appalled to
learn about the proposal to create an agricultural area and access via private land. This would seriously
impact the quality of life of all residents. I am specifically concerned about the disruption and construction
traffic. as well as the potential environmental impacts. Most importantly, the draining of our precious and
very limited water, as well as the increased fire danger in a wild fire zone. It is already almost impossible
to get insurance due to the fire danger and this proposal will restrict our options further. It will also
introduce non-native plants and create a road on Freeze Creek trail, which is an invaluable resource for
all residents and our children.

I am strongly asking you to please not approve this proposal. If you have any questions, please feel free
to contact me

Best,
Jack Vines
801.597.4737
From:              Ann Fowler
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Subject: Opposition to “Freeze Creek Agricultural Protection Area” Proposal & Access via HOA / Private Roads
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:21:42 PM



   You don't often get email from anniebdot@gmail.com. Learn why this is important




Dear Ms. Baun,

I write as a resident and property owner in Emigration Oaks / EOPOA, with grave concerns
about the effects of designating Mr. Ryan Leick’s property as an Agriculture Protection Area
(APA), and especially about the attempts to force access across private/HOA roads, and to
transform those roads into public access. I respectfully oppose the proposal, or at least any part
of it which impinges upon HOA rights, private property rights, or requires transforming
private roads or existing private ways into public thoroughfares.

Concerns

   1. Loss of control over private roads / HOA roads. If the access is forced, that could
      require making private or HOA roads essentially public or at least accessible to the
      public, which would mean increased traffic, maintenance costs, safety, liability, noise,
      etc.

   2. Impact to water resources / well quality. Grazing animals (pigs, goats, sheep) above
      existing wells raise risk of contamination. Non‐native plant species can cause
      environmental issues (invasive species etc.). View platforms, heavy equipment,
      bridge/road infrastructure all may increase erosion, runoff, etc.

   3. Precedent. If this is allowed, future landowners / operators might expect similar rights,
      opening the door to more public use through private / restricted roads, possibly
      converting these roads to public status.

   4. HOA covenant, CC&R obligations & property values. Residents bought into the
      HOA with expectations about access, privacy, rules about who uses the roads, etc.
      Fundamental changes could devalue property, or violate existing governing documents.



       Thank you for your consideration of these concerns.



       Ann Fowler
From:              Christie North
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           SUBJECT: PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 10:44:40 AM
Attachments:       APA document.docx



   You don't often get email from cqualinc@aol.com. Learn why this is important

Ms. Baun,
Please accept the attached letter as a request to NOT approve the aforementioned
APA application. This man has mislead and abused his status as neighbor. His
activities are not in keeping with the beauty and quietude of Emigration Canyon.
Thank you,

Christie North
cqualinc@aol.com
Resident of Emigration Oaks, Lot of Record #133
From:              Alonzo Thayn
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002 AS AN AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 12:41:07 PM



   You don't often get email from alonzo.thayn@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello, my wife and I have been working on building a house in Emigration Canyon for several
years. We have had to contend with all the FCOZ and county rules for zoning and
environmental impact while trying to build our house.

I would like to say that I don't think this agricultural protection area is a good idea. We get our
water from wells near the area where the road and "farm" would be. A road along Freeze
Creek will also put sediment and trash in the stream. There is no way that they can do enough
farming up there on the steep slopes to make the farming benefit to the community worth the
environmental impact to the community. This is just a bald faced attempt to get around all the
rules the rest of us have had to contend with while building in the canyon. If this does work,
my wife and I may do it as well. I expect that others would too. It is pretty easy to "farm".
Please reject this proposal.

Alonzo Thayn
From:              Lorraine Szczesny
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           the proposal to start a farm above freeze creek in emigration canyon
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 4:37:24 PM



   You don't often get email from lbszcz@hotmail.com. Learn why this is important

This proposal is scary especially in terms of our water wells becoming contaminated with farm
animal feces and the introduction of non native plants. This is a residential community and
not a place where a business should be allowed. Our roads are private. The entire proposal
seems too crazy to be taken seriously.

Lorraine Szczesny, M.D.
From:              Chris Tollenger
To:                Diana Baun
Cc:                Bill Tollenger; Mom; paul.h.brown
Subject:           Objection to OAM2025-001470
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 4:24:48 PM
Attachments:       Objection to R Leick APA application - 09222025.pdf



   You don't often get email from cjtollenger@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Hello Diana,

As requested in the public notice sent to the EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL on
September 11th, am attaching our formal objection to:the application below:

File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon
Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres) Legal Description: The southeast
quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake
Base and Meridian. Underlying Zone: FR-20
Thank you!
Chris & Bill Tollenger
Sandi Crockett
Reference parcel: #10-20-400-002 owned by Mr Ryan Leick, Application for APA
Designation

                                                                        September 22, 2025

Hello Planning Commission,

We live on 5435 E Pioneer Fork Road in Emigration Oaks and absolutely love living in
Emigration Canyon. As residents of Emigration Canyon and homeowners in the Emigration
Oaks community, we have recently been alerted to Mr Leick’s APA Designation application.

We respectfully request that the Planning Commission deny this application for a
multitude of reasons, which are detailed in this letter.

Mr. Leick owns a land locked property designated FR. All of the surrounding land is
designated FR. Why is this even a discussion? FR means “No” to almost any land use
beyond the current conditions of all the land surrounding his property. He may want to
change the rules, but why is it OK to do so? FR zoning is there for a reason; to keep it wild,
to preserve habitats, and to preserve watersheds. If we grant Mr. Leick this variance, why
not grant similar variances to any and all other would-be developers who come along and
see our FR lands as great money makers?

Mr Leick believes he is more entitled than the local residents here in Emigration Canyon
and is seeking any foothold he can to bully this community, Salt Lake county, and the state
of Utah into rezoning this parcel in order that he can bulldoze a road through private lands,
no matter the risk and damage it would cause to this fragile eco-system.

Mr Leick has every right to fully enjoy his parcel under its current land-locked Forestry
and Recreation (FR-20) designation.

Have provided a detailed argument against APA designation in the following Appendix
which may be helpful context as you evaluate this application.




Thank you,

Chris Tollenger

Bill Tollenger &

Sandi Crockett
At a high level, our objection to this application is because:

   •   Doesn’t comply with the requirements of the APA Act
   •   Is not compatible with local land use ordinances or long-term planning
   •   Is not appropriate based on the land’s use and surrounding development

We are very concerned about Mr Leick’s disregard for the community and recent
application for APA Designation. For example, here are a few of our community’s recent
experiences with Mr. Leick.

   •   He has frequently trespassed through Oaks Common Area without our permission
       and contrary to our direction
   •   We have seen evidence of controlled burns on his property
   •   He has installed a composting toilet on the property which is not allowed in EID’s
       source protection zone.
   •   He has expressed, in governmental filings, his intention to complete a residence of
       some kind, along with accessory structures to support research and an
       “agroforestry” project.
   •   And is seeking approval for an easement to build an access road
       through Emigration Oaks, past the EID well (source protection zone) and continuing
       up the Freeze Creek (watershed) trail to access his land-locked parcel.
   •   Not deterred by the lack of a right-of-way, he has had a helicopter drop a number of
       loads of supplies to his property, including a large ATV, to advance his plans




           Facts & Legal Context

   •   The parcel is 40 acres, addressed as 1475 N Pinecrest Road, in Emigration Canyon.

   •   Its current zoning is “Forestry & Recreation” – FR-20.

   •   The property is subject to the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) under
       Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code.

   •   The applicant is seeking APA status, which under Utah law would bring with it
       certain protections to agricultural practices (e.g. nuisance defenses, limits on
       certain regulation changes, etc.)
           Arguments Against APA Designation for This Parcel



1. Zoning and Overlay Zone Conflict / Land Use Incompatibility

   •   FR-20 (Forestry & Recreation) zoning has specific expectations about forest
       conservation, recreation, natural open space, and limited types of development.
       This APA would impose agricultural practices that conflict with those expectations
       or what the overlay zone allows.

   •   The Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) places restrictions (or added
       requirements) to preserve scenic, environmental, watershed, wildfire, access, etc.
       Granting APA status to this parcel owner will limit the ability of local authorities to
       enforce some overlay requirements, or to regulate new agricultural practices in
       ways consistent with FCOZ goals.

   •   This parcel is in an area designated for wilderness, recreation, open space, or other
       non-agricultural uses (or for limited development), and this APA conflicts with that
       intended use.

2. Access and Infrastructure Limitations

   •   According to Advisory Opinion 280, access to the parcel is via an unimproved single-
       track dirt trail (Freeze Creek Trail) in a watershed area, which crosses property
       owned by Emigration Oaks and Salt Lake County. This suggests limited legal access,
       possibly seasonal or unreliable.

3. Viability of Agricultural Use

   •   As this parcel is land-locked with an extremely rugged topography and bordering a
       watershed, the parcel does not currently support, or could support in the future,
       consistent, economically viable agricultural use at the scale or intensity that APA
       designations are meant to protect.

   •   Sheep grazing and watering have not been allowed in Emigration Canyon since the
       early 1900’s. A lot has changed in 125 years and attempts to revert this parcel back
       to a historical land use in this now ecologically fragile High Desert Steppe area are
       inappropriate and irresponsible.
4. Environmental, Scenic, Public Welfare, and Safety Concerns

   •   Emigration Canyon and Freeze Creek specifically, have environmental sensitivities—
       watershed issues, slope stability, wildfire risk, vegetation, wildlife habitat, scenic
       vistas. All of these will be negatively affected if agricultural operations (e.g. grazing,
       pesticide/herbicide use, water withdrawal) are introduced under APA protection,
       with fewer regulatory constraints.

   •   Fire risk: Forestry & Recreation zones are often in areas with higher wildfire risk.
       Agricultural operations may increase fire risk (e.g., machinery, dryness, storage of
       fuel, etc.). Local ordinances or overlay zones for Emigration Canyon have stricter fire
       safety or vegetation management requirements that APA status will weaken.

5. Restriction on Local Authority / Regulation

   •   One HUGE consequence of an APA is that the city or municipality cannot enact or
       enforce local laws, ordinances, or zoning changes that “unreasonably restrict” farm
       structures or practices.

   •   And means if future issues arise (e.g. odor, noise, pesticide drift, traffic, water
       usage), neighbors or local government will have limited recourse. In a place like
       Emigration Canyon, where neighbors value quiet, views, natural character, and
       environmental quality, that loss of regulatory flexibility harms the community
       welfare.

6. Potential for Conflicts with Neighboring Land Uses / Community Expectations

   •   Surrounding property owners have purchased expecting FR-20 and FCOZ standards,
       which tend to limit density, preserve natural or scenic character, etc. Altering
       expectations by adding agricultural protections will introduce uses or operations
       incongruous with neighbors.

7. Precedent & Long-Term Implications

   •   Granting APA status here will set a precedent for other parcels in Emigration
       Canyon. Over time, this will shift land use in ways the community did not foresee—
       e.g. environmental protection

   •   There will certainly be cumulative effects: multiple parcels with APA status can
       erode the power of zoning overlays or the overlay zones meant to preserve
       environmental character.
From:              Timothy Wood
To:                EOManage@gmail.com; Diana Baun
Subject:           Comments on Proposed Agricultural Protection Area in Freeze Creek
Date:              Monday, September 22, 2025 11:16:26 AM
Attachments:       freeze creek ag protection area comments wood.docx



   You don't often get email from tim.wood@wildcoastllc.com. Learn why this is important

Dave and Diana. My comments on the proposed agricultural protection area in Freeze Creek
are attached.

Thank you,

Tim Wood
COMMENTS ON PROPOSAL TO DESIGNATE PARCEL 10-20-400-002
        AS AN AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA

TO:       Dave Sheffield, Manager EOPOA
            and
          Diana Baun
          City Recorder for Emigration Canyon
          dbaun@msd.utah.gov

FROM: Tim Wood
      345 N Middle Oak Ln
      Salt Lake City, UT 84108


After reviewing the proposal to designate Parcel 10-20-400-002 as an Agricultural
Protection Area, I have several concerns that center on three questions:

      •   Can the applicant reasonably sustain a proﬁtable agricultural operation on this 40
          acre property?
      •   Can he do so in a way that does not negatively impact ground and surface water
          quality, does not lead to undue erosion, and/or degrade our “view shed” in the
          Freeze Creek and Emigration Canyon drainages?
      •   How does the applicant intend to access his property and transport supplies and
          products to and from that parcel?

More speciﬁcally, I have the following concerns and questions.

Has the applicant prepared a credible business plan that supports the formation of a
proﬁtable agricultural enterprise on this property?

Can the applicant point to an example of an existing, proﬁtable agricultural enterprise,
similar to the one proposed (i.e. one based on sugar/syrup production from native plants,
beekeeping, etc) on a similar mountain canyon property in our county/region?

Over what years has the applicant successfully produced sugar/syrup/honey from his
property? Do the amounts produced to date indicate reasonable potential to support a
proﬁtable sugar/syrup/honey business in the future? Note that 2023 and 2024 were above-
average years for precipitation. Is the applicant conﬁdent that a viable sugar business can
be sustained through years with average and below-average precipitation?

Does the applicant propose to undertake tree harvesting and lumber production
operations on this property? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that such
operations do not harm water quality or soil quality, do not result in signiﬁcant erosion
impacting neighboring properties, and do not scar the area viewshed?

How will timber and lumber products be transported off the property in question?

Does the applicant intend to graze or water sheep or other livestock on the property in
question? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that such operations do not harm
water or soil quality, do not result in signiﬁcant erosion impacting neighboring properties,
and do not scar the area viewshed?

How will livestock be transported on and off the property in question?

Whose responsibility will it be to monitor water quality in Freeze Creek and groundwater
quality in the Freeze Creek watershed to ensure that agroforestry operations on the
property in question have not had negative impacts? Moreover, whose responsibility will it
be to enforce water quality regulations? If declines in water quality are detected, what
actions can be taken to correct the situation, and who will take them?

The property in question has the address 1475 N Pinecrest Canyon Rd. Will the applicant’s
access to the property in question be via Pinecrest Canyon Rd and not via private roads in
Emigration Oaks? If the applicant is granted access to his property via a right-of-way
through Emigration Oaks, does the EOPOA have authority to charge the applicant for use of
its roads at rates commensurate with the wear and tear likely to result from an agroforestry
business?

At present, there is no road leading into the property. Does the applicant intend to build
such a road? What is the proposed route? Which property owners will be affected by
construction of that road? What will it cost to construct that road? How will the costs of
road construction impact the proﬁtability of the proposed agroforestry operation? What
measures will be taken to ensure that construction of the road does not impact water
quality, erosion rates, views, etc. in Emigration Canyon?
From:              Gholson Lyon
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           written comment concerning AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL File:
                   OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-
                   20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)
Date:              Friday, September 19, 2025 10:34:29 AM
Attachments:       Emigration Canyon City Council Notice of Proposal for Agricultural Protection Area dtd 091125.pdf



   You don't often get email from gholsonjlyon@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Diana Baun, can you please confirm receipt to this email? See below.
Thanks.
Gholson

As per below, and attached notice, I am writing to express my concerns about the request to
establish an Agricultural Protection Area for:
File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon
Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage: 40 acres)

I live at 6017 E. Pioneer Fork Road, SLC, UT, so my house is right next to the Freeze creek
trailhead, where this trail ascends to the pine forest right past this parcel of land (on the right
side) being proposed for development. Over the past 2 years, this individual has already cut
down many trees and piled up brush, disrupting what had been an amazing and tranquil hike.
Now, they are proposing further development, despite there being no road to access their
parcel of land. Any planned construction there would presumably include having to develop a
road, which would seriously impact this trail, along with disrupting the existing private road
and character of Emigration Oaks. Development of this parcel would presumably
have impacts on water consumption and the environment, along with possible wildfire danger,
with any burning of brush on that parcel of land. It is not clear if agricultural development
might also introduce non-native plant and animal species into the Canyon, and as stated above,
it seems like there would be a need for a road along Freeze Creek to serve this proposed farm.
It appears that the city would have to give up zoning authority to allow this, and it is not clear
who would issue building permits and eminent domain power if this is approved.

The Utah statute allowing Agricultural Protection Areas defines agricultural production as
meaning production for commercial purposes (17--41-101(2)). Crops are useful plants and
animals with a reasonable expectation of profit (41-17-101(10)). There is absolutely no way
that this parcel of land can generate a reasonable expectation of profit, unless there is
substantial development with a road. Lastly, the grade of the slope going up to this parcel is
quite steep, with the current situation being wooden slats inserted on the hiking trail to enable
this steep climb. Any road would likely have to have switchbacks, so this would be a very
disruptive thing for the trail and the surrounding forest ecology. I am writing to strongly
oppose the approval of this as an agricultural protection area.

Sincerely,
Gholson Lyon, MD PhD
email: gholsonjlyon@gmail.com


NOTICE OF PROPOSAL FOR CREATION OF AN AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION
AREA EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN Pursuant
to Utah Code Title 17, Chapter 41, Section 302, that the Emigration Canyon City Council has
received an application for the creation of an Agricultural Protection Area, and will hold a
public hearing on Tuesday, November 17, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. at the Emigration Canyon Fire
Station building at 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Road. The purpose of the public hearing is to
hear public comment on and review: • The proposal to create the agriculture protection area; •
The recommendations of the Salt Lake County Advisory Committee and Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission; • Any requests for modification of the proposal and any objections to
the proposal. The proposal is open to public inspection in the office of the Emigration Canyon
Recorder (860 E. Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah) and is also available on the
Emigration Canyon public notice website. Any person affected by the establishment of the
area may, WITHIN 15 DAYS of the date of this notice, file with the Council either written
objections to the proposal or a written request to modify the proposal to exclude land from or
add land to the proposed protection area. File: OAM2025-001470 Applicant: Ryan Leick
Property Address: 1475 N. Pinecrest Canyon Road. Parcel Number: 10-20-400-002 (Acreage:
40 acres) Legal Description: The southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 20,
Township 1 North, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. Underlying Zone: FR-20 Prior
to the public hearing, the proposal will be submitted to the Emigration Canyon Planning
Commission and the Salt Lake County Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board for review
and recommendations. The Emigration Canyon Planning Commission will review and make a
recommendation to the City Council at their regularly scheduled meeting to be held October 9,
2025, at 8:30 a.m. at the Emigration Canyon Fire Station building at 5025 E. Emigration
Canyon Road. Written objections, comments, or questions may be directed to Diana Baun,
City Recorder for Emigration Canyon at dbaun@msd.utah.gov or (385) 377-9466 or by mail
to: Emigration Canyon City Council c/o Diana Baun, PO Box 147700, Salt Lake City, Utah
84114-7700
From:              Hunter Jackson
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Application by Ryan Leick
Date:              Friday, September 26, 2025 3:10:15 PM




[You don't often get email from hjackson12@gmail.com. Learn why this is important at
https://aka.ms/LearnAboutSenderIdentification ]

I am writing to express my strong opposition to the application by Ryan Leick to have his 40 acre property in
Emigration Canyon designated as an
Agricultural Protection Area. The idea that introducing many, many species of non-native trees along with pigs,
goats and sheep amounts to “agricultural protection” is ridiculous. Furthermore, use of the area for “agrotourism”
would amount to destruction rather the protection. Said destruction would clearly be a consequence of the road that
would need to be built to access his property. The area that incudes his property is beautiful, peaceful, and clean
Wasatch foothill land. Please allow it to stay that way.

Thank you.

Hunter Jackson
617 N Pioneer Fork Rd
SLC 84108
From:              Lois Baar
To:                Diana Baun
Subject:           Application to designate parcel 10-20-400-002 as an agricultural protection area
Date:              Thursday, September 25, 2025 9:09:07 PM



   You don't often get email from loisbaar494@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

Dear Council:
I oppose the above application. It is wrong for the area, wrong for the real world water
situation and wrong for the wildlife and ecosystem. Mostly, it appears to be a tricky way for
the applicant to try to get what he wants. Really—agriculture?!?!

L.A.Baar
