                                ORDINANCE 2025-O-__

      Ordinance No. 2025-O-__                            Date: ____________, 2025

    AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL
  REPEALING CHAPTER 19.60 C-V COMMERCIAL ZONE AND CHAPTER
     19.62 C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE AND ENACTING CHAPTER 19.32
                      COMMERCIAL ZONE.

                                        RECITALS
      WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 10-9a-501 Municipal Land Use,
Development, and Management Act; and
       WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to update and consolidate Chapter
19.60 C-V Commercial Zone and Chapter 19.62 C-2 Commercial Zone in a new Chapter
19.32; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on ________________, to consider repealing Chapter 19.60 C-V Commercial Zone and
Chapter 19.62 C-2 Commercial Zone and replacing them with Chapter 19.32 Commercial
Zone (the “Proposed Action”) in accordance with Utah Code Annotated §§ 10-9a-205 and
10-9a-502; and
        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommends the Proposed Acton to the
Emigration Canyon City Council for the protection and preservation of the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Emigration Canyon.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
   1. Repeal. Chapter 19.60 C-V Commercial Zone is hereby repealed and Chapter
      19.62 C-2 Commercial Zone is hereby repealed.
   2. Enact. Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zone is hereby enacted in substantially the form
      set forth in Attachment A of this Ordinance, subject only to administrative or
      grammatical corrections
   4. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
      specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
      shall continue in full force and effect.
   5. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to: (i) Correct any administrative
      or grammatical errors within this Ordinance and Attachment A; and (ii) Codify and
      publish this Ordinance and Attachment A pursuant to all governing law, including,
      but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated § 10-3-711.
   6. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
      to Utah Code § 10-3-712.



PASSED AND ADOPTED this __ day of _________ 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL


By: Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka              voting ___
Deputy Mayor Hawkes       voting ___
Council Member Brems      voting ___
Council Member Harris     voting ___
Council Member Pinon      voting ___
                              SUMMARY OF
                        EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                         ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-__

On ____________, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council approved Ordinance No. 2025-
O-__, repealing Chapter 19.60 C-V Commercial Zone and Chapter 19.62 C-2 Commercial
Zone and enacting Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zone.



By: Joe Smolka, Mayor



ATTEST                                      APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________             ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                        Polly McLean, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka             voting ___
Deputy Mayor Hawkes      voting ___
Council Member Brems     voting ___
Council Member Harris    voting ___
Council Member Pinon     voting ___


A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the
Emigration Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
                                          ATTACHMENT A

                             CHAPTER 19.32 COMMERCIAL ZONE
19.32.010 Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the Commercial Zone is to designate areas in Emigration Canyon for a wide range of
commercial and retail trades and uses, offices, businesses, professional services, and other uses that
contribute to the economic stability of the community. The Commercial Zone is intended to provide
employment opportunities and expand the municipal tax base, while also encouraging sustainable
development and providing an attractive transition between residential and non-residential uses.

19.32.020 Establishment of the Commercial Zone.

 The Commercial Zone is identified as district C-2 and intended to provide areas in appropriate locations
where commercial centers may be established, maintained, and protected. The regulations of the
Commercial Zone are designed to encourage the provision of restaurants, retail and service-oriented
spaces, and other commercial activities.

19.32.030 Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in Table 19.32.030 are permitted in the C-2 Zone
   and designated as either Permitted Use or Conditional Use, and are subject to the general provisions,
   special conditions, additional restrictions, and exceptions set forth in this Title.

B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of both Permitted and Conditional Uses as identified in Table 19.32.030, the development proposal
   shall be considered a Conditional Use.

C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations in Table 19.32.030 are defined as follows:

    1. P = Permitted Use. Uses allowed in the C-2 Zone, but may be subject to additional restrictions and
       approval processes as provided in this Title.

    2. C = Conditional Use. Uses that because of their unique characteristics or potential impacts on
       Emigration Canyon, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, may not be compatible in some
       areas of the C-2 Zone, or may be compatible only if certain conditions are imposed to mitigate the
       reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts of the proposed use. Conditional Uses are subject to
       the requirements of this Chapter, all general and specific conditions, criteria, and approval
       procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84 Conditional Uses. The Planning Commission is the approval
       authority for Conditional Uses.

    3. Uses not specifically permitted in Table 19.32.030 are prohibited in the C-2 Zone.

                     Table 19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses in the C-2 Zone

Use Categories

RETAIL AND SERVICE:

Liquor and/or Wine Store and Package Agency                                                     P
Retail and Service Commercial                                                                     C

Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site                               C

Child Care Center                                                                                 P

Office, Medical                                                                                   P

FOOD AND DRINK:

Bars                                                                                              P

Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant                                       P

Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol                                                      P

OFFICE:

Office, General                                                                                   P

INSTITUTIONAL USES:

Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious buildings                        P

Parks/Open Space                                                                                  P

Public or Quasi-Public Uses                                                                       P

Public Utilities, Minor                                                                           P

ACCESSORY USES:

Accessory Outside Storage                                                                         C

Outdoor dining appurtenant to a permitted restaurant use                                          P

Temporary buildings subject to requirements in Chapter 19.44.030                                  P

19.32.040 Development Standards.

A. All lots in the C-2 Zone must be accessible to the public either directly from a public street or by way
of a recorded easement or right-of-way in favor of, or appurtenant to, the lot.

B. The C-2 zone has no Minimum Project Area, Minimum Lot Size, Minimum Lot Width, or Frontage
requirements.

19.32.050 Site Standards.

The following site standards shall apply in the C-2 Zone:

A. Limits of Disturbance. Building footprint areas shall comply with the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
   Zone, Section 19.72.160 Limits of Disturbance.

B. Setbacks. Site Setback Requirements are set forth in Table 19.32.050:
                             Table 19.32.050 – Site Setback Requirements

Location                           Setback

Front Yard Setback, Emigration     20' landscaped setback from a public right-of-way
Canyon Road

Front Yard Setback, All Other      10' landscaped setback from a public right-of-way
Streets

Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots    10' landscaped setback from a public right-of-way

Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots 8’ setback to the property line or 16’ between buildings where
                                  building pads are used. 10’ landscaped buffer required to separate
                                  residential uses from commercial uses.

Rear Yard Setback                  10’ setback to the property line or 20’ between buildings where
                                   building pads are used. 10’ Landscaped buffer required to separate
                                   residential uses from commercial uses.

Perennial Stream, Ephemeral        See Subsection 19.72.130(D)
Stream, and Wetland Setbacks


C. Walkways or Trails.

    1. Public Entrances. Walkways or Trails shall be at least six feet (6’) wide and are required along the
       entire length of the parking area to provide continuous access to the public entrance.

    2. Pedestrian Buffer. A landscaped strip at least six feet (6’) wide is required between a public street
       and a walkway or trail.

    3. Fences. Fences parallel to any walkway or trail are prohibited within two feet (2’) of the edge of
       the walkway or trail.

D. Outdoor Dining. If outdoor dining is permitted, the patio or dining area may encroach into the
   applicable required setback up to fifty percent (50%) of the width of the setback.

E. Utilities. All utilities shall be placed underground, except as may be provided in Chapter 19.79 Utility
   and Facility System Placement Regulations.

F. Screening.

    1. All trash or recycling receptacles, dumpsters, or bins shall be enclosed by a gated wall or
       architectural design with materials complementary to the building’s materials and the natural
       environment. The gated enclosure shall comply with the following standards:

        a. The enclosure gate shall be accessible to service vehicles.

        b. The enclosure wall and gate shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12”) higher than the
           receptacle, dumpster or bin, but may not exceed the fence height requirements in 19.72.100.
       c. Chain link or transparent materials are prohibited materials for screening.

   2. Service areas, mechanical equipment, and meters shall be completely screened from the street.

G. Benches, Bike Racks, and Receptacles. Development in the C-2 Zone requires the following
   furnishings:

   1. Seating/Benches. Each development proposal shall provide outdoor seating with a minimum
      capacity to seat four (4) persons per commercial building that is twenty thousand (20,000) square
      feet or smaller. For each commercial building that is greater than twenty thousand (20,000)
      square feet, outdoor seating with a minimum capacity to seat eight (8) persons is required.
      Seating/Benches are encouraged in places where people congregate and at pedestrian
      intersections and nodes. Benches shall be durable and permanently installed on a hardscape
      surface such as concrete, pavers, etc.

   2. Bike Racks. One bike rack with three (3) stalls is required for each development. Additional bike
      racks with a minimum of three (3) stalls are required for every twenty (20) vehicle parking stalls.
      Bike racks shall be located near the entrance to the building and visible from the street or drive.
      Bike racks shall be durable and permanently installed over a hardscape surface.

   3. Trash and Recycle Receptacles. A minimum of two receptacles, one (1) trash and one (1) recycle,
      are required for each public entrance of commercial buildings.

H. Turf Area Limitations.

   1. Turf areas shall not exceed 20% of the total landscaped area, outside of active recreation areas.

19.32.060 Architectural Requirements.

All new development must present a coordinated streetscape and architectural and site design elements
that provide for the safety and convenience of pedestrians. All new development in the C-2 Zone shall
comply with the following architectural requirements:

A. General Design Requirements.

   1. Walls.

       a. No more than three materials shall be used for primary wall surfaces.

       b. Exterior finishes shall be of traditional, time and weather-tested techniques.

       c. Retaining and screening walls shall be of materials complementary to the building’s materials
          and the natural environment.

       d. Buildings shall use a cohesive palette of colors that complements nearby buildings and the
          natural environment and comply with the design requirements in the Foothills and Canyons
          Overlay Zone in Chapter 19.72.

   2. Building Height. New commercial buildings adjacent to existing neighborhoods shall step down in
      height to help minimize the visual impact on residential areas. Building Height requirements are
      set forth in Table 19.32.060A.
                     Table 19.32.060A - Commercial Development Requirements

Standard             C-2

                     Minimum: Commercial buildings shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15’) above
Building Height      grade.
                     Maximum: Commercial buildings shall not exceed thirty-five (35') above grade.

Step-down Height     Commercial buildings within thirty feet (30’) of any of the Forestry Zones, or a
Adjacent to          parcel used as a residential dwelling, shall not exceed thirty feet (30’) above
Residential Areas.   grade.

   3. Roofs. All roofs and dormer roofs of a commercial building shall be constructed of the same
      material. Roof slopes shall be of equal pitch if a gable or hip roof is employed. All metal roofs must
      be of a subdued color. Painted roof shingles are prohibited.

       a. Low Slope (Flat) Roofs (less than 2” of vertical rise per 12” of horizontal run; 2:12 slope) on
          stand-alone buildings are allowed when variation to the roof line is provided using parapets,
          towers, step-backs, or accessory structures.

       b. Large roofs shall have parapets and enclosures concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment
          from public view. Parapet and enclosure materials shall match the building in quality and
          detail.

       c. For pitched roofs that slope 2:12 or steeper, the slope is measured with the vertical rise
          divided by the horizontal span or run.

       d. All roofs may not be sloped more than 16:12 (Rise/Run) 53.12 deg.

       e. Any first-story roof may not be sloped flatter than a 4:12 (rise: run) 18.43 deg.

       f.   Slopes less than 4:12 (rise: run) 18.43 deg. are permitted to occur on second-story or higher
            roofs.

                                             SLOPE ILLUSTRATION TABLE
      CREDIT: RAMCO ROOF PITCH ANGLES: https://www.famcomfg.com/resources/roof-pitch-angles/

        g. Hipped, gabled, and combination of hips and gables with or without dormers are permitted.

        h. Gambrel, butterfly (inverted gable roof), and mansard roofs are not permitted.

        i.   A gabled end or perpendicular ridge line shall occur at least every one-hundred feet (100’) of
             a roof when the ridge line runs parallel to the front lot line.

B. Exterior Structure Requirements. All exterior walls of all structures shall be constructed in compliance
   with the following:

    1. Materials.

        a. All structures shall use one or more of the following durable materials as significant finish:
           architectural precast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry units (CMU), brick
           cladding, natural and cast stone, architectural metals, and glazing.

        b. Architectural site-cast concrete may be allowed if designed, articulated, and architecturally
           finished.

        c. At least fifty percent (50%) of any portion of a structure façade visible from Emigration Canyon
           Road shall be composed of one or more of the following materials: brick, stone, architecturally
           treated CMU, architectural precast concrete, architectural metals, and glazing.

    2. Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)/Stucco. The design and application of EIFS or synthetic
       stucco shall be of a high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and substantial relief.

    3. Detail and Finish. Structure façades that face a public street, but do not have public entrances,
       shall be composed of high-quality materials such as brick or stone and shall provide variety and
       interest in the façade through the introduction of such elements as pilasters, recessed or
        protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, display windows with products or product
        graphics, transparent windows or clerestories, and well-designed signs and graphics.

    4. Façade Articulation.

        a. Continuous exterior wall surfaces shall be relieved with significant variations of wall planes or
           overhangs that create shadow areas and add visual interest.

        b. Variations from significant dimensional changes in plane, color, or detail as accomplished by
           such devices as protruding bays, recessed entries, upper-level step-backs, arcades, offsets in
           the general plane of the façade, changes in materials or color, bay windows, vestibules,
           porches, balconies, exterior shading devices, nonretractable canopies or awnings, projecting
           cornices, or eaves are required.

    5. Visual Height of Façade.

        a. Buildings in excess of two (2) stories in height shall exhibit architectural detailing that
           establishes a separation between the lower and upper stories to reduce the visual height of
           the facade. This may be accomplished by a mid-façade cornice or trim, a change in material,
           style or color, a façade step-back or roof pitch with dormer windows, or other methods of
           incorporating architectural detailing within twelve feet (12’) of the ground plane.

    6. Façade Features.

        a. All retail building façades visible from public streets shall include architectural treatments that
           add detail, character, and reduce the appearance of blank walls. Techniques such as color and
           material changes, expression of structure, shifts in plane, offsets and projections, belt
           courses, reveals, pilasters, windows, doors, arcades, canopies, and other similar elements
           may achieve this standard.

        b. Opaque or solid storefront security closures, such as rolling doors, are not permitted.

C. Public Entrances. Public entrances shall comply with the following standards:

    1. Street front entrances are required for new buildings on Emigration Canyon Road.

    2. Primary public entrances shall be architecturally emphasized and identifiable.

    3. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors inset by at least three feet (3’), or
       arcades are required for all public entrances.

19.32.070 Off-Street Parking Requirements.

The parking requirements set forth in Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this Title shall apply in the C-2 Zone. In
addition, the following standards are required:

A. Change Of Use. Whenever the existing use of a structure or the existing use of land is changed to
   another use or another occupancy, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required by this
   Title.
B. Screening. Except for approved street parking, surface parking areas located within thirty feet (30') of
   a public right-of-way shall be screened by grading, landscaping, walls/fences, or a combination of
   these, with a minimum height of three feet (3') above the surface of the parking area.

C. Cross Access. All commercial development shall be designed to allow for cross-access to adjacent
   properties to encourage shared parking and shared access points on public or private streets. When
   cross-access is deemed impractical by the Planning Commission on the basis of topography, the
   presence of natural features, or vehicular safety factors, this requirement may be waived provided
   that the appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are provided between adjacent
   developments or land uses.

D. The Planning Commission may approve an exception to the requirements of this Section 19.32.070
   Off-Street Parking Requirements if the requirements are not reasonably possible based on the unique
   characteristics of the site such as topography, geological hazards, or flood zones.

19.32.080 Connections and Landscaping for Parking

All landscaping and parking in the C-2 Zone shall be designed and installed in accordance with Chapter
19.72 Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. In addition, the following standards are required:

A. Physical Connections. Each lot shall have a system of pedestrian walkways and trails that provide
   connections between the public entrances, neighboring public entrances, walkways, parking areas,
   open spaces, and public trails.

B. Landscaped Setback from the Edge of a Public or Private Street.

    1. The entirety of the required setback between a building or parking lot and a street or drive shall
       consist of landscaping, walkways, bike lanes, or a combination thereof.

        a. Courtyard or plaza areas shall be deemed to be a part of the front setback of the building.

C. Prohibitions. Maintenance buildings, trash collection, recycling areas, storage and service areas,
   mechanical equipment, and off-street loading areas shall not be permitted in the front setback of any
   building and shall be located behind the main building structure or completely screened from public
   view.

D. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation shall be landscaped
   if it is visible from public vantage points.

E. Visual Separation between Commercial and Residential Uses. A landscaped buffer shall be required
   to separate residential uses from commercial uses.

    1. The landscape buffer area must be a minimum of six feet (6’) wide to provide adequate screening,
       buffering, and separation of these uses. The landscape treatment shall use a combination of high
       and low-level screening to separate the uses to soften the visual impact of the commercial use.

    2. The landscaped buffer area shall include a minimum of one tree for every two hundred fifty square
       feet (250 sq. ft).

    3. Landscape plant material shall be localscape compatible.
19.32.090 – Lighting

All new development must comply with 19.73.110 Night Lighting.

19.32.100 – Fences, Hedges and Walls.

Fences, hedges, and walls in the C-2 Zone shall comply with the requirements set forth in Foothills and
Canyons Overlay Zone, Section 19.72.100 and the following standards:

A. Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any
   combination of such structures (herein individually “Structure” and collectively “Structures”) are
   permitted provided all of the following conditions are met:

    1. The Structures are located within the required setback in Table 19.32.050;

    2. The Structures do not extend beyond or across a property line without a recorded agreement with
       the abutting property owner;

    3. Only one Structure is permitted per property line.

    4. Barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence is not permitted.

    5. Temporary fences on construction sites are allowed during the construction period and may not
       exceed eight feet (8’) in height. Temporary fences must be removed when the certificate of
       occupancy is issued or when the construction is complete.

B. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation, tennis courts, shall
   be a maximum of fourteen feet (14’) in height and all portions of the fence above six feet (6’) shall be
   constructed with a minimum of fifty percent (50%) nonopaque materials.

19.32.110 General Information.

Compliance with all other requirements of Title 19 and all other Emigration Canyon ordinances is
required.
