                              ORDINANCE 2025-O-__

      Ordinance No. 2025-O-__                         Date: ____________, 2025


 AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL REPEALING
CHAPTER 19.05, PLANNING COMMISSION AND CHAPTER 19.92, LAND USE
      HEARING OFFICER, REPLACING THEM WITH CHAPTER 19.12,
ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES POWERS AND DUTIES; REPEALING CHAPTER
 19.06 ZONES, MAPS, AND ZONE BOUNDARIES AND REPLACING IT WITH
      CHAPTER 19.14, ZONES, ZONING MAP, AND BOUNDARIES; AND
        REPEALING CHAPTER 19.84, CONDITIONAL USES AND 19.90,
  AMENDMENTS AND REZONING, REPLACING THEM WITH CHAPTER
            19.16, LAND USE PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES.


                                      RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
       WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
consolidate and update its chapters regulating the powers and duties of administrative
bodies; and
      WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
update the chapter establishing the zones used in Emigration Canyon; and
       WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
consolidate and update its chapters regulating the land use processes and procedures; and
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on August 14, 2025, to consider repealing Chapter 19.05, Planning Commission and
Chapter 19.92, Land Use Hearing Officer, replacing them with Chapter 19.12,
Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties; repealing Chapter 19.06 Zones, Maps, and Zone
Boundaries and replacing it with Chapter 19.14, Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries; and
repealing Chapter 19.84, Conditional Uses and 19.90, Amendments and Rezoning,
replacing them with Chapter 19.16, Land Use Processes and Procedures (the “Proposed
Action”) in accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205and 10-9a-502; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
Chapter 19.05, Planning Commission and Chapter 19.92, Land Use Hearing Officer,
replacing them with Chapter 19.12, Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare.
       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
Chapter 19.06 Zones, Maps, and Zone Boundaries and replacing it with Chapter 19.14,
Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries for the protection and preservation of the public
health, safety and general welfare.

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
Chapter 19.84, Conditional Uses and 19.90, Amendments and Rezoning, replacing them
with Chapter 19.16, Land Use Processes and Procedures for the protection and preservation
of the public health, safety and general welfare.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
   1. Chapter 19.05, Planning Commission and Chapter 19.92, Land Use Hearing
      Officer are hereby repealed and replaced with Chapter 19.12, Administrative
      Bodies Powers and Duties, which is adopted to read as shown in Attachment A to
      this Ordinance.
   2. Chapter 19.06, Zones, Mapes and Zoning Boundaries, is hereby repealed and
      replaced with Chapter 19.14, Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries, which is
      adopted to read as shown in Attachment B to this Ordinance.
   2. Chapter 19.84, Conditional Uses and 19.90, Amendments and Rezoning are
      hereby repealed and replaced by Chapter 19.16, Land Use Processes and
      Procedures, which is adopted to read as shown in Attachment C to this
      Ordinance.
   4. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
      specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
      shall continue in full force and effect.
   5. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
      needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
      limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
      finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
      non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
   6. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
      to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this __ day of _________ 2025.
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL


By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Smolka            voting ___
Deputy Mayor Hawkes     voting ___
Council Member Brems    voting ___
Council Member Harris   voting ___
Council Member Pinon    voting ___
                               SUMMARY OF
                         EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                          ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-__

On ____________, 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-
__, repealing Chapter 19.05, Planning Commission and Chapter 19.92, Land Use Hearing
Officer, replacing them with Chapter 19.12, Administrative Bodies Powers and Duties;
repealing Chapter 19.06 Zones, Maps, and Zone Boundaries and replacing it with Chapter
19.14, Zones, Zoning Map, and Boundaries; and repealing Chapter 19.84, Conditional
Uses and 19.90, Amendments and Rezoning, replacing them with Chapter 19.16, Land Use
Processes and Procedures.



By: Joe Smolka, Mayor



ATTEST                                        APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________               ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                          Polly McLean, City Attorney



Voting:

Mayor Smolka              voting ___
Deputy Mayor Hawkes       voting ___
Council Member Brems      voting ___
Council Member Harris     voting ___
Council Member Pinon      voting ___


A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the
Emigration Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
                                          ATTACHMENT A


       CHAPTER 19.12: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES AND POWERS AND DUTIES
19.12.010 - Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to outline the specific powers and duties of the different boards,
commissions and officials having administrative, legislative, or quasi-judicial roles set forth in this
Ordinance.

19.12.020 - Council

The council has the authority to enact and amend land use ordinances and to enact and amend a zoning
map for the Emigration Canyon.

19.12.030 - Planning Commission

A. Term Appointed

   1. The Emigration Canyon planning commission shall consist of five members and up to two
      alternate members.

   2. Commissioners shall serve five-year terms (except for the initial terms as provided below) or
      longer until successors are appointed.

   3. Terms shall commence on May 15 of each year.

   4. In the event a term of a member shall expire before a successor is appointed, the member shall
      continue to serve until a successor is appointed.

   5. The members and alternate members of the planning commission shall reside within Emigration
      Canyon.

   6. Upon expiration of a Commissioner’s term, the seat shall be appointed by the mayor with the
      advice and consent of the City council.

   7. Members of the Commission may serve successive terms.

B. Vacancy—Removal.

   1. Any vacancy occurring on the Planning Commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or
      disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council for the
      unexpired term of such member.

   2. The mayor, with the advice and consent of the council, may remove a member of the Planning
      Commission for cause after filing written charges against the member. The member will be
      provided with a hearing on the charges if requested by the member being removed.

C. Organization—Procedures.

   1. The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-year
      term. The chairperson is a voting member.

   2. The Planning Commission shall elect a vice chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-
      year term. The vice chairperson is the designated chair pro-tempore and a voting member.
   3. The Planning Commission may create and fill any other necessary offices it deems necessary and
      may adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications,
      and for any other purpose the Planning Commission considers necessary for its proper function.

   4. A minimum of three (3) full and/or alternate members in attendance at the meeting is required
      to constitute a quorum.

   5. The minimum number of "yes" votes necessary to carry an action of the commission shall be a
      majority of the members of the quorum in attendance but shall never be less than three (3).

   6. Alternate members shall be designated to sit as voting members of the commission at any time
      one or more regular members are absent from the meeting. The designation of the alternate
      member to voting status shall be made by the chairman at the commencement of the meeting in
      accordance with the seniority of the alternate members in attendance at the time, and any
      alternate so designated shall serve as a voting member until the conclusion of the meeting.

D. Powers and Duties. The Planning Commission shall:

   1. Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the council;

   2. Prepare and recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and
      maps to the council;

   3. Prepare and recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the
      council;

   4. Review subdivision plats as set forth in Title 18 Subdivisions;

   5. Approve or deny conditional use permits;

   6. Advise the council on matters that the council directs;

   7. To make, at the request of the Director, an interpretation of the zone map regarding the location
      of zone boundary lines;

   8. To decide, at the request of the Director, the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the
      text of the zoning regulations;

   9. To make a determination whether a change of a non-conforming use is more intensive pursuant
      to 19.06.050;

   10. To hear appeals of administrative determinations by the Director as to the classification of uses
       not specifically listed in this Ordinance;

   11. Determine building height for conditional uses pursuant to 19.24.050;

   12. Review waivers for slope requirements pursuant to 19.24.140 , 19.38.060 (D)and 19.38.080 (C );

   13. Review modifications of setbacks pursuant to 19.38.130 (G);

   14. Determinations for Mandatory Design Standards pursuant to 19.38.170;

   15. Make determinations as required in the Commercial (CV) zone pursuant Chapter 19.32;
   16. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.58 Geologic Hazards; and

   17. Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the council.

19.12.040 - Land Use Hearing Officer

A. Creation.

   1. The position of Land Use Hearing Officer is created pursuant to the enabling authority granted by
      the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, § 10-9a-701 of the Utah Code Annotated.

   2. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall be an administrative law judge appointed as provided in the
      Municipal Code.

   3. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall act in a quasi-judicial manner.

B. Procedures.

   1. The Land Use Hearing Officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.

   2. Hearings the Land Use Hearing Officer holds on appeals of a land use decision are open to the
      public.

       a. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall:

           (1) Keep minutes of all proceedings;

           (2) Keep records of all examinations and other official actions; and

           (3) File all records in the office of Planning and Development Services. All such records are
               public records.

   3. Decisions of the Land Use Hearing Officer become effective immediately on the date when the
      written decision is issued, unless a different time is designated at the time the decision is made.

C. Powers and Duties. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall:

   1. Act as the appeal authority for zoning ordinance decisions applying this Title as provided in Section
      19.16.020

   2. Act as the appeal authority for conditional use decisions by a Planning Commission;

   3. Hear and decide the special exceptions to the terms of the zoning ordinance set forth in Section
      19.20.020.B.3;

   4. Hear and decide variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance as set forth in Section
      19.20.010;

   5. Hear and decide appeals, interpretation of the zone map regarding the location of zone boundary
      lines or decision of the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the text of the zoning
      regulations by either the director or the Planning Commission.

   6. Hear and decide appeals of determinations made by the Director for Non Complying Structure or
      Nonconforming Use pursuant to 19.06.020.
     7. Provide other functions as specified in this Title or as directed by the council.

19.12.050 - Director

The Director has the following powers:

A. To make an interpretation of the zoning map regarding the location of zone boundary lines, or decide
   the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the text or the zoning regulations. The Director, at
   his or her discretion, may request the Planning Commission make the determination
   of interpretations of the zoning map or the meaning of disputed terms or phrases within the text of
   the zoning regulations to the Planning Commission;

B. To make a determination on granting an extension for an inactive application pursuant to 19.02.060.

C. To make administrative determinations as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in this
   Ordinance subject to appeal to the Planning Commission. Administrative determinations shall be
   based upon a comparison of the nature and characteristics of the proposed use with those uses
   specifically authorized in the intended zone;

D. To review conditional use amendments as set forth in 19.16.040.G.1

E. To review and make decisions on occupancy permits;

F. To review and make decisions on permitted uses

G. To review and make decisions ordinance interpretations and other duties outlined in Chapter 19.16
   Land Use Processes and Procedures

H. To receive and forward applications for zoning amendments, variances, conditional uses, takings
   petitions, zoning appeals and other administrative reviews required by this Title to the appropriate
   board, commission or official;

I.   To maintain permanent and current records as required by this Ordinance including, but not limited
     to, all relevant information and official action on zoning amendments, variances, conditional uses,
     zoning appeals and other administrative reviews;

J.   To conduct inspections of structures or the use of land to determine whether there is compliance with
     this Title, and, in case of any violation, to order corrective action;

K. To enforce the requirements of this Title.

L. To administer application review procedures as set forth in chapter 19.16; and

M. To review and make determinations of a Noncomplying Structure or a Nonconforming use pursuant
   to 19.06.020 or Abandonment pursuant to 19.06.040.

N. Make determinations as required in the Commercial (C-V) zone pursuant Chapter 19.32

O. Hold pre-application meetings and make determinations as required in Chapter 19.38 FCOZ

P. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.42 Specific Use Standards

Q. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.46 Site Development Standards
R. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.48 Off Street Parking

S. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.52 Signs

T. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.54 Dark Skies

U. Act as the Floodplain Administrator for Floodplain Hazards pursuant to Chapter 19.56

V. Make determinations as required in Chapter 19.58 Geological Hazards

W. Provide other functions as specified in this Title or as directed by the Council.
                                              ATTACHMENT B


                        19.14 ZONES, ZONING MAP, AND BOUNDARIES
19.14.010 - Zones Established

For the purpose of this Title, the Emigration Canyon is divided into classes of zones, as follows:

FR-0.5            Forestry and Recreation Zone

FR-1              Forestry and Recreation Zone

FR-2.5            Forestry and Recreation Zone

FR-5              Forestry and Recreation Zone

FR-10             Forestry and Recreation Zone

FR-20             Forestry and Recreation Zone

C-2               Commercial Zone

19.14.020 - Zoning Maps

Each of the sections of Emigration Canyon City which are zoned by this Title are shown on the maps on
file with Planning and Development Services, and such maps are made by this reference, as such, a part
of this Title as if fully described and detailed herein. Said maps may be in an electronic or Geographic
Information System (GIS) format. Amendments to the zoning map shall follow the process outlined in
Section 19.16.080 of this Title.

19.14.030 - Filing of This Title and Zoning Maps

This Title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the City Clerk and may be examined by the public
subject to any reasonable regulations established by the City Clerk.

19.14.040 - Boundary Location Rules

A. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules shall apply:

      1. Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a street,
         alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map,
         the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be the
         boundary of the zone;

      2. Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being approximately at the line of any
         river, irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right-of-way, or public park, or other public
         land, or any section line, then in such case the center of the stream, canal or waterway, or of the
         railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such section line shall be
         deemed to be the boundary of the zone;

B. Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone boundary location, the Land Use
   Hearing Officer shall interpret the map.
19.14.050 - Zoning of Annexed Areas

Properties that are annexed into the Emigration Canyon shall be given a zoning designation by action of
the Council at the time of annexation. The Council shall be guided by the general plan and by the criteria
set forth in Table 19.16-2 in zoning the subject property. Annexations of multiple parcels may result in
more than one zone applying to the annexation area; however, except in the case of overlay zones, only
one zone may apply to each parcel.
                                             ATTACHMENT C


                      19.16 LAND USE PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES
19.16.010 - Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to delineate the procedures, requirements and approval standards that
apply to land use and zoning applications and approvals.
19.16.015 - Table of Land Use Decision Processes
This table is an illustrative summary of the administrative and legislative decision processes in Title 19. If
there are any inconsistencies between this table and the other provisions of this Title, the other provisions
of the Title govern.

              TABLE 19.16.010: LEGISLATIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION PROCESSES.

                          ZONING TEXT
                            AND MAP
 REFERENCE TABLE:
                         AMENDMENTS         PERMITTED       CONDITIONAL                         SPECIAL
  APPLICATIONS &                                                              VARIANCES
                           AND OTHER           USE             USE                            EXCEPTIONS
    APPROVALS
                           LEGISLATIVE
                              ACTS
                        Property owner,   Property            Property         Property      Property
                            person       owner or a          owner or a       owner or a    owner or a
                         authorized in     person              person           person        person
    APPLICATION
                         writing by the authorized in       authorized in    authorized in authorized in
     INITIATION
                        property owner, writing by          writing by the    writing by   writing by the
                           Council or   the property          property       the property    property
                         Planning Staff    owner                owner           owner          owner
                         In accordance
                              with
      NOTICE (1)                            Not required     Required (1)     Required (1)    Required (1)
                         Utah Code 10-
                               9a
                            Planning           Public                            Public
                                                            Public agency                     Public agency
RECOMMENDATION            Commission,          agency                            agency
                                                               review                            review
                          public input         review                            review
                                                                                               Land Use
                                                                                                Hearing
                                                                               Land Use        Officer, or
                                             Director or      Planning
   FINAL DECISION            Council                                            Hearing         Director
                                              designee       Commission
                                                                                Officer       (dependent
                                                                                             on application
                                                                                                 type)
                                              Land Use
                           3rd District                      Land Use         3rd District     3rd District
    APPEAL BODY                                Hearing
                             Court                         Hearing Officer       Court            Court
                                               Officer
TABLE 19.16-1: FOOTNOTES
(1) Courtesy Notices shall be mailed ten (10) days prior to the meeting to property owners within three
hundred feet (300’) of the subject property’s boundary.
19.16.020 - General Administrative Procedures
The Director is the administrator of the Zoning Ordinance with power to review and make decisions on
zoning ordinance interpretations. The authority and responsibility of the Director shall include the
following:
A. Review of Development Plans. The Director shall establish development plan review processes to
   ensure that proposed land uses and development plans comply with the provisions of this Ordinance
   and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. At the discretion of the Director or
   Designee, review of permit or license applications may be conducted without submittal of a land use
   application if compliance can be ascertained based on the permit or license application documents.
B. Interpretation of Permitted and Conditional Uses – Administrative Determination. The Director shall
   determine whether proposed uses of property are consistent with the permitted and conditional uses
   within each zone. The procedure to request the Director’s determination shall be as follows:
    1. Written Request. A written request for a determination shall be filed with the Director or
       Designee, which shall include a detailed description of the proposed use and such other
       information as the Director may require.
    2. Investigation. The Director shall undertake such investigations as deemed necessary to compare
       the proposed use with those uses specifically listed in this Title, and to make a determination of
       the proper classification.
    3. Determination. Within 30 days of the filing of a written request, the Director shall prepare a
       written determination, which shall be provided to the applicant. The determination shall state the
       zone classification in which the proposed use will be permitted as well as the basis for finding that
       such use is of the same character as uses allowed in that zone classification. The determination
       and all information related thereto shall become a permanent public record in the office of the
       Director.
    4. Effect. The use as specified in the determination of the Director shall thereafter become a
       permitted or conditional use in the class of zoning district specified in the determination, and shall
       have the same status as a permitted or conditional use specifically named in the regulations for
       the zone classification.
    5. Appeal. The Director’s determination may be appealed to the Land Use Hearing Officer. Such
       appeal shall be filed in writing within 10 days after written notification to the applicant of the
       Director’s determination.
19.16.030 - Land Use Applications
A. Pre-Application. At any time prior to or during the Completeness Review process outlined below, a
   pre-application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss the
   application, plans, and anticipated review process, However, such pre-application meeting does not
   result in vesting of the pre-application or the application. In order to facilitate efficiency of review
    process, the Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as well as
    the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.
B. Applications. A property owner, or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property
   owner, may file for a land use permit. All land use applications for permitted or conditional uses shall
   be filed with the Director or Designee. Applications shall contain:
    1. An application form provided by Planning and Development Services which form may be via online
       submitting software.
    2. Property identification documents such as a legal description, plat map, and if applicable, site
       survey. This is not required for text amendments.
    3. A title report of the property from within 6 months of the application.
    4. Plans and other documents as necessary to evaluate the proposed application for compliance
       with applicable codes, including a site plan (see Subsection 19.16.030.C), building elevations,
       preliminary landscape and amenities plans, preliminary grading/drainage plan, and any other
       pertinent documents.
    5. Applications are subject to the Completeness Review process outlined in 19.16.030.D. An
       application is considered as having been accepted only when deemed a complete application and
       the applicable application fees have been paid. The payment of a partial fee and preliminary plans
       for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.
C. Plans.
    1. Site Plan. A detailed site plan is required as part of all applications for land use or development
       approval, including conditional uses, permitted uses, variances, special exceptions, site
       development plans for the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, and building permits. The Director
       may specify the number of plans required and the medium (electronic, paper, etc.) in which site
       plans may be submitted. The site plan shall show:
        a. Scale;
        b. Direction of Cardinal North;
        c. Lot lines and adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;
        d. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties, completely
           dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, fire hydrants, etc;
        e. Location and building elevations of any proposed construction and improvements, including
           the location of all signs;
        f.   Vehicle access, including circulation patterns and the location of individual parking stalls,
             curbs, gutters, and sidewalks or trails;
        g. Any necessary explanatory notes, including calculations of lot coverage, parking ratios, gross
           floor area of buildings, easements, floodplains, topography, rights of way and other notes
           necessary to evaluate for compliance with all applicable land use requirements;
    h. Areas for snow storage;
    i.   Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner, and;
    j.   Any other information required by the Director or indicated on the application form.
2. Building Elevations. Building elevations, when required, shall show:
    a. Note of scale used;
    b. Orientation of each elevation, including distance to nearest property line;
    c. Explanatory notes describing building, cladding and trim materials;
    d. Original and finished grade at all points along each elevation of the building;
    e. A building envelope that describes that maximum buildable height of all elevations as
       measured from original grade;
    f.   Finished floor elevations of all levels of a building including, but not limited to, basements,
         garages, patios, and decks;
    g. Top of footing elevations at each corner of the building;
    h. Total height of building, as measured from original ground surface to the highest point of the
       coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the highest point of pitched
       or hipped roofs, or gambrel roofs;
    i.   Necessary explanatory notes to address any requirements particular to the zone in which the
         property is located, and;
    j.   All other information that may be required, as determined by the Director.
3. Preliminary Landscape or Reclamation Plan. Preliminary landscape or reclamation plans, when
   required, shall show:
    a. Note of scale used, north arrow and preparation date;
    b. Project name and address;
    c. General reclamation of area intent statement including the general character and location of
       proposed reclamation of the land and open areas;
    d. A legend showing all plant types and sizes, symbols, line types, hatching and abbreviations
       used in the plan set;
    e. Site boundary, property lines, and any construction phasing lines;
    f.   All existing significant vegetation, including an indication of what is proposed to be removed;
    g. All existing and proposed structures;
    h. All proposed softscape and hardscape areas;
       i.   A tabulation of the total project area, reclaimed area, impervious areas, building coverage
            areas and building coverage percentage;
       j.   Detailed landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to indicate each plant,
            and;
       k. The name and contact information of the landscape design professional who prepared the
          plan.
   4. Other plans and documents. Other plans and documents may be required in order to verify
      compliance with this Title or other applicable codes, ordinances, statutes and regulations.
D. Completeness Review for a complete application.
   1. Upon receipt of an application request and associated documents, the Director or Designee shall
      review the application to determine whether:
       a. Complete and accurate plans have been submitted;
       b. The application itself contains complete information regarding the property, applicant,
          proposed land use;
       c. Evidence that all prerequisite conditions for the specific land use have been addressed, and;
       d. The property owner or authorized agent has authorized the submittal of the application.
   2. If the application is determined to be incomplete, the Director or Designee shall notify the
      applicant by mailing a written notice in writing within thirty (30) days:
       a. That the application is incomplete, and;
       b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.
       c. If this notice is not timely mailed, the application shall be considered complete, for the
          purposes of further substantive land use authority review.
   3. Upon notice being given, an application deemed incomplete shall be terminated after 60 days if
      the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.
   4. The applicant may raise and resolve in a single appeal any determination made under this
      Subsection to Land Use Hearing Officer, including an allegation that a reasonable period of time
      has elapsed under Subsection 2.
   5. If the application is determined to be complete, the Director or Designee shall authorize the
      payment of the applicable application fees.
E. Application Review. The application review process may include:
   1. The creation of a planning file for reference by the applicant, Staff and the public.
   2. An on-site review by the Director or Designee as allowed in Utah Code § 10-9a-303.
   3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with this Ordinance.
    4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and development review
       agency authorized to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and to ensure the
       project's compliance with this Ordinance and all other applicable ordinances and codes.
    5. Referral of the application for conditional uses to the appropriate decision-making body as set
       forth in section 19.16.040.
    6. An action letter informing the applicant as to whether the application has been approved,
       approved with conditions, denied, or tabled pending the submittal of additional information or
       amended plans. An application requiring submittal of additional information or amended plans
       shall be terminated after 60 days if the necessary components to complete the application have
       not been submitted, unless an extension is granted by the Director in writing.
19.16.035 - Allowed or Permitted Uses
A. Initiation. A property owner, or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property owner,
   must file a complete application, as required in 19.16.030 (D).
B. Determination. On any application to construct a building or other improvement to property which is
   defined by this Code as an Allowed or Permitted Use in the Zone in which the Building is proposed,
   the Director or Designee must review the Application to determine whether the proposal:
    1. Is an Allowed Use within the zone for which it is proposed;
    2. Complies with all applicable Development requirements of that zone, including Building Height,
       Front, Side, and Rear Setbacks, and Lot coverage;
    3. Respects Lot Lines of a Legal Lot;
    4. Meets the applicable parking requirements;
    5. Can be adequately serviced by roads, and existing or proposed utility systems or lines;
    6. Pertains to land in which all tax assessments have been paid, and;
    7. The plans shall be reviewed for Building Code compliance and permit issuance
       procedures. Approval of Allowed Uses must be noted by the issuance of a Building Permit in
       compliance with the provisions of the International Building Code, as adopted by Emigration
       Canyon.
C. If the Application does not comply with the requirements of the zone, the Director or designee shall
   notify the Owner of the project or the Owner's Agent, if any, stating specifically what requirements of
   the zone have not been satisfied.
D. DISCLAIMER. No permit issued shall be valid if any of the criteria listed in this section have not been
   met.
19.16.040 - Conditional Uses
A. Requirement. A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in Title
   19.
B. Initiation.
    1. A property owner, or other person expressly authorized in writing by the property owner, may
       file for a conditional use permit for that property. In addition to the request for land use approval,
       a conditional use application may include a request for land development plan approval.
    2. The Planning Commission is the land use authority and shall take formal action on requests for
       conditional use permits. When a land development plan is submitted in conjunction with a
       conditional use application, the land development plan shall be included in the materials
       presented to the Planning Commission. In rendering an approval, conditions of approval may be
       imposed by the Planning Commission that necessitate changes to the land development plan.
    3. As administrator of the zoning ordinance, the director is responsible to ensure the land
       development plan not only complies with the applicable codes and ordinances, but also complies
       to the conditions of approval imposed by the Planning Commission. If, during the course of land
       development plan review, the director finds changes are made to the site plan not in harmony
       with the conditions imposed by the Planning Commission, the Director may, at their discretion,
       refer the land development plan to the Planning Commission for review.
C. Land Use Approval.
    1. Approval Process.
        a. The Planning Commission shall consider applications for a conditional use permit in a public
           meeting and shall make a decision on the proposed conditional use, evaluating the application
           in accordance with the standards in subsection D below.
        b. MAILED NOTICE. Courtesy notice shall be mailed ten (10) days prior to the public meeting to
           adjacent and surrounding Property Owners within three hundred feet (300’) of the subject
           property’s boundary. The Property Owner or agent must provide the Planning Department
           with an electronic list of each Property Owner of record of each Parcel located entirely or
           partly within three hundred feet (300’) of the subject property’s boundary. The addresses for
           neighboring Property Owners must be as shown on the most recently available Salt Lake
           County tax assessment rolls. Any defect in such courtesy mailed notice shall not affect or
           invalidate any hearing or action by the Planning Commission on the Conditional Use Permit.
        c. The Planning Commission shall take action in the form of approval, modified approval or
           denial on applications for conditional uses. Unless otherwise designated, a decision by the
           Planning Commission approving a conditional use application authorizes the director to
           proceed with approval of the land development plan.
        d. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the Planning
           Commission or the Director to resolve conflicts with the standards in Subsection D may result
           in an application being denied.
        e. The Director, under authority of the Planning Commission, shall grant final approval of
           conditional use permit applications after all of the conditions and requirements of the
            preliminary approval have been met. Applications with a land development plan element
            shall not receive final conditional use approval until the land development plan has been
            approved by the director. As a condition of preliminary approval, the Planning Commission
            may require that final land development plan be brought before the Planning Commission for
            final approval.
       f.   Final approval of a conditional use permit application is in the form of a letter to the applicant,
            which, together with the approved land development plan if required, constitutes the
            conditional use permit. Final approval shall not modify or invalidate any of the conditions or
            terms imposed by the Planning Commission.
   2. Approval Standards. The Planning Commission shall review the site plan and other information
      submitted to evaluate the impacts of the proposed conditional use. The Planning Commission
      may impose conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts of the
      proposed use. A conditional use permit shall be approved unless the imposition of conditions
      cannot mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental effects as stated in Utah Code 10-9a-507.
D. Rules for Approved Conditional Uses. The following general rules apply to all approved conditional
   uses:
   1. Approval of a conditional use authorizes only the particular use for which the conditional use is
      issued.
   2. No use authorized by a conditional use may be enlarged, extended or relocated, unless an
      application is made for approval of a new conditional use in accordance with the procedures set
      forth in this section.
   3. Development of the property shall not commence until the applicant has secured all the permits
      and approvals required by municipal ordinances and any permits required by regional, state, and
      federal agencies.
E. Expiration and Extension of Time.
   1. A conditional use expires 12 months from the date of final approval by the Director, unless a
      building permit is obtained within such period and substantial construction is started or the use
      is commenced within such period in compliance with all required conditions and this Ordinance.
   2. One 12-month extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to
      the original filing fee. Such an extension shall be filed before the end of the initial 12-month
      period.
F. Revocation of Conditional Use.
   1. The Planning Commission may revoke a conditional use permit upon a finding of failure to comply
      with the terms and conditions of the original approval or for any violation of this Ordinance or
      other applicable law.
    2. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to taking action on revocation. Notice
       of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee
       and affected entities at least 10 days prior to the hearing.
G. Appeals. Appeals may be made to the Land Use Hearing Officer within 10 days of the date of the
   decision of the Planning Commission.
19.16.050 - Withdrawal of Application
A. An applicant may withdraw an application at any time prior to the final decision on the application,
   including any time during which the application has been tabled.
B. An applicant may request a refund of fees at the time the application is withdrawn. The Director shall
   consider the amount of work performed by Staff on the application when determining whether or to
   what extent fees may be refunded. Fees associated with a public meeting or hearing shall not be
   refunded if the item is heard at a public meeting or hearing.
C. A notice of withdrawal of an application and a request for refund of fees shall be in writing and
   submitted to the Director.
19.16.060 - Performance Bonds
A. Any required improvements such as curb, gutter and sidewalk (or pedestrian paths), fences, and
   landscaping shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the Emigration Canyon authorizing electrical
   service or, if no electrical service is required, prior to issuance of any occupancy permit.
B. In lieu of completing such improvements, the developer may file a cash or surety bond, escrow
   agreement, or letter of credit with the Planning and Development Services Director, in an amount
   sufficient to ensure completion of improvements within one year.
    1. Ten percent (10%) of a bond amount for public improvements shall extend for a one-year period
       beyond the date the improvements are completed to guarantee replacement of any defective
       public improvements.
    2. Ten percent (10%) of a bond amount for live plants shall extend for a one-year period beyond the
       date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants.
    3. Upon completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has been filed, the
       developer may call for inspections of the improvements by the Director.
C. Whenever necessary in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of City residents from traffic,
   flood, drainage or other hazards, the Land Use Authority may require as part of bond approval that
   improvements be completed in a specified sequence and in less than one year. Such requirements
   shall be incorporated into the bond.
D. Bonds will be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 18.24.170
   of the Municipal Code.
E. When the developer is a school district, Emigration Canyon, service area, special-purpose district or
   other political subdivision of the State, the Mayor may waive the bond and accept in lieu thereof a
    letter from the governing body guaranteeing installation of the improvements. Before approving any
    such waiver, the Mayor shall receive a recommendation from the Director.
19.16.070 - Occupancy Permits
A. A permit of occupancy is required prior to the occupancy of any building hereafter erected, enlarged
   or structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter proposed to be occupied or used for
   anything other than permitted agricultural uses.
B. The permit of occupancy shall be issued by the Chief Building Official and the Director if the use and/or
   building or premises conforms to the provisions of this Title and related ordinances.
C. A permit of occupancy shall be required whenever the character or use of any building or land is
   proposed to be changed from one use to another use.
D. Upon written request from the owner, a permit of occupancy shall also be issued covering any lawful
   use of a building or premises existing on the effective date of this Ordinance, including nonconforming
   buildings and uses.
19.16.080 - Zoning Text, Land Use Regulation and Map Amendments
A. Initiation. A zoning text, land use regulation, or map amendment may be initiated the Council, the
   Planning Commission, the Director, a property owner(s) in Emigration Canyon, or a person authorized
   in writing by the property owner(s).
B. Authority. The Council shall take formal action on requests for zoning text, land use regulation, or
   map amendments after receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
C. Procedure.
    1. Filing of Application.
        a. All zoning map or text amendment applications shall be filed with the Director or Designee in
           accordance with this Chapter. The Director or Designee shall forward the application to the
           Planning Commission for further review and recommendation after the date the application
           is deemed complete.
        b. Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
           application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion
           thereof to the same zone classification, or if the application is for a commercial classification
           to the same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the date of the final
           disapproval of the application unless the council finds that there has been a substantial
           change in the circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the disapproval of the
           application to merit consideration of a second application within the one-year time period.
    2. Notice. The Director or designee shall provide notice of proposed zoning text or map amendments
       in accordance with Utah Code §10-9a-205. An “adjacent property owner” under this section of
       State law is an owner of property located within three hundred feet (300’) of land that is directly
       affected by the land use ordinance change.
   3. Action by Planning Commission.
       a. The Planning Commission shall consider a proposed zoning text or map amendment in a public
          hearing.
       b. After the close of the public hearing, the Planning Commission may evaluate the application
          against the applicable considerations in subsection D below and shall make a
          recommendation to the Council for approval, modified approval, or denial.
   4. Action by Council.
       a. After considering the recommendation of the Planning Commission at a public meeting, the
          Council may approve, deny, alter, or remand for further review and consideration any
          application.
D. Approval Considerations. Table 19.16-2: Guidelines for Zoning Map and Text Amendments. The
   Planning Commission recommendation and the Council decision on any zoning text or map
   amendment are matters of legislative discretion. In making a recommendation and decision, the
   Planning Commission and the Council, respectively, may consider one or more of the factors in Table
   19.16-2                                                                                     below.



         TABLE 19.16-2: GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING MAP & TEXT AMENDMENTS

                                                                                        TEXT
                                                                      MAP          AMENDMENTS/
                           FACTORS
                                                                   AMENDMENTS         LAND USE
                                                                                    REGULATIONS
1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the
                                                                       X                   X
Adopted General Plan.
2. The proposed amendment promotes the public health,
                                                                       X                   X
safety and welfare.
3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning
                                                                       X
classification for the property than the current classification.
4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent
                                                                       X                   X
and general purposes of this Ordinance.
5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission,
adds clarification to existing requirements, or reflects a             X                   X
change in policy.
6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of
                                                                       X                   X
Emigration Canyon as a whole.
7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant
                                                                       X                   X
number of nonconformities.
8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of
development, if any, in the general area of the property in            X
question.

E. Appeals. Any person adversely affected by a zoning amendment decision of the Council may appeal
   the decision to the 3rd District Court of Salt Lake County as provided for in § 10-9a-801 of the Utah
   Code, as amended.
