                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org




        Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                 Thursday, June 13, 2019, 2018 8:30am
Location
SALT LAKE COUNTY GOVERNMENT CENTER
2001 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM N1-110
NORTH BUILDING, MAIN FLOOR
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of Minutes from the November 15, 2018 and January 17, 2019 meetings
    2) General Plan Discussion
    3) Confirm July 11, 2019 meeting attendance
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)


                                              ADJOURN




June 13, 2019                               Page 1 of 2      AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                 www.pwpds.slco.org




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                   EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                              Thursday, November 15, 2018 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 49 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 40                                   found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Tippets

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                 Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
         Brent Tippets           x           x
          Claire Clark           x           x                                 Wendy Gurr
                                                                             Curtis Woodward                   x             x
       Andrew Wallace            x           x
                                                                              Jim Nakamura                     x             x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
          Jim Karkut             x           x
         Robert Pinon            x           x
         Dale Berreth            x           x


                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 8:30 a.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the December 14, 2017 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the December 14, 2017 meeting as presented.
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

                                             PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                         Hearings began at – 8:32 a.m.

30473 – John Walsh requests conditional use approval for commercial and private recreation, including
picnic area and gazebo for picnics, parties, and other gatherings, as well as two single-lane gun ranges on
property at 2450 Pinecrest Canyon Road. Zone: FR-1 and FR-20. Planner: Curtis Woodward


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 7
Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner asked if there is a public comment period. Mr. Woodward advised there isn’t a comment
period per county policy.

Commissioner Tippets asked for a description of public notification process. Mr. Woodward described the
process within 300 feet of the property, in the last 48 hours word travels quickly. Commissioner Tippets
asked if the parking would affect that or not. Mr. Woodward said if the planning commission were to
entertain, we would make sure we renotify with the number of parcels involved. Mr. Woodward advised
received a letter from a water company that needed to be notified under FCOZ, and we don’t have the other
water companies mapped out. Commissioner Tippets said there are restrictions of firearms within the
canyon. Mr. Woodward said we can find out, but his records that hasn’t been an issue, but there is a
restriction on hunting. Commissioner Tippets said there isn’t a traffic study done. Mr. Woodward said not
to his knowledge, there was reference made to a traffic study by Johansen and he has not seen a traffic
study done by a transportation engineer. Commissioner said may have been thinking of Pinecrest pipeline
operating company when thinking of a water company, the metro township board adopted an amendment
to the FCOZ. Under state law, presumption in favor of a conditional use application can be substantially
mitigated by conditions. The packet provided was not in conflict with the emigration general plan and one
comment letter quoted language and doesn’t need to be resolved. The land in Pinecrest is within a
subdivision plat and does have several roads and trails identified and whether they’re overlaid. Mr.
Woodward said the roads running through the property has been subject to discussion. Commissioner
curious about the firing range and if the county has experience. Mr. Woodward said we have and the unique
one is in parleys canyon by the sheriff’s department as a public use. Commissioner asked if the applicant
included the total stalls, include employees, rentals, vendors, etc. Mr. Woodward said there weren’t stalls
specifically labeled. Commissioner Clark said all the issues overlap, if fire marshal decided to have
emergency fire access and couldn’t turn around, widening the road would affect private property.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said suggest take questions. Biggest issue is wedding setting, occurring in the
evening on the weekend coming through Parley’s Canyon. Resolution passed not allowing the road to be
15 feet across, and county designed turnouts and put up no parking to address specific needs. From his own
property, the fire department suggested enlarging foliage.

Commissioner asked how many employees for zipline and gun range. Mr. Walsh said wedding would be
solely vehicle driving vehicles. If he needed busses he doesn’t intend to provide food. Drivers for weddings,
no significant employees. Commissioner asked if he anticipated rental equipment. Mr. Walsh said on the
application is for two storage units, would store equipment there. Commissioner asked if there was a traffic
study performed. Mr. Walsh said he spoke to great lengths with the county but hasn’t engaged a traffic
study. Commissioner asked the timing of the different activities, planning to hold them year-round or
seasonal limits. Mr. Walsh said one activity at a time. Commissioner said application doesn’t specify time
frames. Mr. Walsh said happy to have times placed as conditions. Safety is important to him. Commissioner
asked if there is a need for a gun range. Mr. Walsh said under recreational it is appropriate, his family is
big on guns. Commissioner asked where the gun ranges would be located. Mr. Walsh said block 11 for
pistols and would not go over platted right of ways and kept on private property. Commissioner asked about

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary              Page 2 of 7
mitigating a fire if started. Mr. Walsh said two existing fire hydrants on the property. Commissioner asked
if fed by his own tank. Mr. Walsh said his own with 12,000 gallons upper and below. Upper shooting range
is block 15. Commissioner asked if the existing home is intended for this conditional use. Mr. Walsh said
none and would be for additional parking. Commissioner said application in the works for a long time,
interest of disclosure to schedule a visit to the property. Mr. Walsh said he is open to that.

Commissioner Tippets asked for a show of hands to speak, interest of time contain precise and be respectful
and focus on relevant information. Limit the time to two minutes and tracking the time. Commissioner said
two minutes is too short. Commissioner Tippets agrees with that but avoid redundancy. Commissioner
agreed to 3 ½ minutes and avoid redundancy.

Speaker # 2: Emigration Canyon Community Council Chair
Name: Steve Borst
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Borst read a letter from the community council to the planning commission dated
November 14th.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said she has been a resident for 25 years. Applaud community council with their
statement, joining community council in January. Was on community council when Pinecrest Road was
under review and requests look into it with regards to pullouts. States her oppositions on traffic and fire
safety. Objects on noise concerns. Read from a portion of her letter.

Speaker # 4: Emigration Canyon Homeowners Association
Name: Mark Tracy
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Tracy said opposes this project, and Brent Tippets should recuse himself as he is co
chairman emigration improvement district. Problem reviewing the water rights. No water rights approved
for commercial use. Point of diversion identified by Brent Tippets. This has been protested by 50 residents.
Reject proceeding, due to public notice, they only heard of this meeting three days prior. Proposal was
distributed at cc meeting minus pictures. He pointed out a structure being a private residence, reason to
believe not a single-family resident, this is a resort. They oppose any water rights. Salt Lake City was
presented an opportunity to review in April, the proposal was completed in May. Ask public notice given,
for public meeting.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Tom Johnson
Address: 2326 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Johnson said prepared a letter and distributed and another letter from resident Mr. Darver.
Read the portion of the road from the letter. Read from the portion of the public right of way and trails.
Requests denial.

Speaker # 6: President, Spring Land Water Company
Name: Lisa Fitzgerald
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Fitzgerald said she has not been notified until Tuesday. They have a 60,000-gallon tank
which supports a smaller area, was barely adequate for fire prevention and pay EID to put in additional
hydrants to support suppression, don’t think its sufficient.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 7
Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Melinda McIlwaine
Address: 2148 Pinecrest Canyon
Comments: Ms. McIlwaine read a letter from the Steve Moore, president of Pinecrest pipeline operating
company addressed to Mayor Smolka. Her property has been affected by the widening of the road and dig
a 14-foot hole, nothing to prevent driving in to the hole. County plows fall in to the creek, the bus turn
around was paved. The gate is never supposed to be closed, muddy in the spring or an appropriate road. No
way for another car to pull over, due to the boulders.

Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Heather Ross
Address: 4347 Laneview Court
Comments: Ms. Ross said last night searched the internet for 11 instances where wildfires were started on
legal target ranges. Study by the us forest service in 2013, every firearm has potential to ricochet and cause
fire. Ask the applicant to withdraw that aspect of his plan, not worth the risk.

Speaker # 9: Citizen
Name: Cindy Furse
Address: 2295 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Furse said water and traffic would be affected and wasn’t formally notified. Sent an email
and provide an updated letter. Children walk along this road to the school bus and extreme weather.
Condition is not within the general plan and no additional commercial activity to take place. Traffic plan
should be required. She read from her letter submitted to the planning commission. Also presented letters
from three additional neighbors.

Speaker # 10: Citizen
Name: Sarah Bennett
Address: 64 North Silver Oak Road
Comments: Ms. Bennett said she is concerned on window of notification. Obvious impacts to water, fire
safety traffic and request this body take maximum amount of time for discussion and determine how much
of a threat this proposal is. Traffic, blocking of the road and risk of safety and incompatibility and outline
of no further commercial. Speak to right of way, Mr. Walsh seem fit to block, be cause the plat map is on
the books and right of way is identified, and the root is part of the trails to access the public lands. Echoes
Cynthia.

Speaker # 11: Citizen, Springland Water Company
Name: Jessica Kramer
Address: 4801 Skycrest Park Cove
Comments: Ms. Kramer said she supports the community council letter and concerns raised, this is not a
matter of if, but when fire starts. Two months ago, a 14-year-old boy was killed in his car from a stray bullet
from a firing range. May not use parleys to avoid traffic and will use emigration, exceeded daily trips in the
canyon. Concerns with smoking, alcohol, firepits and many unanswered questions. Joggers and bikers using
the canyon road and consider school children.

Speaker # 12: Emigration Canyon Community Council and Pinecrest Services Association
Name: Kate Miyagi
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Miyagi submitted a personal letter and documentation. They have a plow, additional traffic
issue. Stated all documents listed. In 2012 governor Herbert by July 21 fires had been started, multiples

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                Page 4 of 7
fires started at shooting ranges despite. Powder mountain fire burned 800 acres. She read from
documentation. This is bound to happen, personal resident communications, and fires start every year.

Speaker # 13: Citizen
Name: Jeff Kenney
Address: 2143 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Kenney said running in opposition and submitted a folder and read from his letter.
Shuttling people doesn’t seem feasible business model, wonder about transparency. Noise echoes down the
canyon, worries about wedding events over the weekend and can hear gun shooting. The 300-foot
notification is not feasible. Environmental impact has not been outlined in the proposal and catastrophic
failure. Why in this case is there 50-100 parking stalls for small events. Red flags and contradicting
statements.

Speaker # 14: Executive Director, Save Our Canyons
Name: Carl Fisher
Address: 824 South 400 West
Comments: Mr. Fisher said he wants to commend comments. Elevate comments made, very concerned
and change the nature, ecological impacts and safety. Shared a lot of research, because of states efforts
forest service. Growing smart, more peoples lives in danger. Narrowest steepest canyons with community
inside, this is irresponsible. Urge commission to pump the brakes and allow time. Agency questions and
doesn’t see any answers. People deserve answers for the future of the area. Threats to these places as
continue to grow. Recommend provide answers to questions from community and agencies.

Speaker # 15: Citizen
Name: William and Ardell Carroll
Address: 2322 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Carroll said agreed with everything said. Noise of firearms would be disruptive. They live
at 7000 feet and can hear the gun range in Parleys. He has personally survived an avalanche above the
property, and also survived the fire in emigration from a camping spot down Killyons. Pinecrest community
doesn’t need a commercial development.

Speaker # 16: Citizen
Name: David Ream
Address: 6535 East Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Ream said from now on there’s a system to keep residence people further than 300 feet
from development. The environment effects this is the wrong place to do this. So many hazards and issues.
This is an incompatible use and express his opposition to the proposal. He’s submitting written comments.

Speaker # 17: Citizen
Name: Phil Davis
Address: 1832 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Davis said parking problem for trailheads and will parking be available for the general
public. Concern with wintertime activities and snowmobiling.

Speaker # 18: Citizen
Name: Greg White
Address: 1990 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. White said lived her for 20 years and grave concern for interruption. Proposed gun range
will destroy wildlife. Can hear the gun range from his house. Concern and represent the wildlife. Unique
eco system, watched elk out there, came across a mountain lion kill and elk from proposed gun range and

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary           Page 5 of 7
nesting eagles, quarter mile from gun range and will deter wildlife from this area and consider this an asset
to the people. Grave concern for safety and will have no control over people shooting and ranges are on
active trails and in the line of fire and ski terrain behind them.

Speaker # 19: Citizen
Name: Corey Schwabenlander
Address: 2121 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Schwabenlander said he’d like to echo Mr. Fishers concerns, inadequacy of the comments
is a big concern. Pages of concerns, request to traffic plans, bus shuttles, inconsistencies to responses, bullet
traps and allowing shotguns, a lot of questions and Mr. Walsh has a lot of work to do and there is a
responsible plan.

Speaker # 20: Citizen
Name: Robert Jordan
Address: 749 North Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Jordan said appreciates everyone’s comments. Is there a cutoff to public input.

Commissioner Tippets said based on discussion today, may continue. Mr. Jordan said requests time to
submit comments. In addition, safety of ziplines and construction. Mentioned no regular staff, considering
the different issues proposed. Focus on safety of uses and why there may not be staff. The example of public
parking and using shuttles on the main canyon road. Substantial congestion and informative to consider
historically where this has occurred. Reiterate prior to moving forward mitigating measures the applicant
put forward to address concerns, whether through analysis and he is opposed.

Speaker # 21: Citizen
Name: Margaret Armstrong
Address: 2137 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Armstrong said she has lived there for 35 years. Need for oversight. Mr. Walsh said 25
cars and neighbors have been the overseers and an ongoing problem and don’t know how to mitigate.

Speaker # 22: Citizen
Name: Linda Evans
Address: 5864 East Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Evans said sanitation is a problem, already have a creek polluted and county doesn’t
recommend letting her dog in it. Illegal parking, grass and catalytic converters start fires and people parking
in illegal places.

Speaker # 23: Citizen
Name: Georgia Badley
Address: 2125 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Badley said she has lived here for 20 years, hooray to all her neighbors. Talked specifically
about environmental issues and doesn’t see how a commercial development is appropriate with all the
issues.

Speaker # 24: Citizen
Name: Annette MacIntyre
Address: 449 Marathon Circle
Comments: Ms. MacIntyre said she is opposed and submitted with her reasons and many have been spoken
about. Main concern is fire and it is the number one risk to her life and property. Anything making a chance
greater is the height of responsibility and echo concerns of conditions set, once granted who will watch over

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                  Page 6 of 7
the people attending these events and travelling parleys, who assures the definition of occasionally. Will
these comments being recorded and available to share with the public and letters. Urge consider comments
in good faith and strongly oppose the development only there for personal gain

Speaker # 25: Citizen
Name: Robert Avery
Address: 155 Skycrest Lane
Comments: Mr. Avery said the proposal opposed, impossible to mitigate risk of fire and is there enough
water allocated for development then not enough water for fire.

Speaker # 26: Citizen
Name: John Porches
Address: 2238 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Porches said his experience with Mr. Walsh has never acted in good faith to illegal ponds
and personal dealings. Recommends serious oversight to development. When Mr. Walsh dumps concrete
in the stream they notify, this is going to be bigger than what he says and will do more. Let Mr. Walsh do
this, his acquisition of the property, water rights through litigation. Responds to many letters of inquiries
with bullet points and urges oversite.

Speaker # 27: Citizen
Name: Jacob representing a client Deiko Deherra
Address: Not provided
Comments: Jacob asked to present a letter from his client. 330 acres surrounding are for sale. He read a
letter.

Commissioner said the applicant has a brief opportunity to speak. Mr. Walsh said he would submit his
comments in writing.

Commissioner Tippets motioned to close the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding recording of the meeting, summary of minutes
and public comments submitted will be available, schedule a site visit of the property and a work meeting,
traffic, gun ranges, UFA, water availability analysis and septic system, Utah division of water rights
meeting on December 19th.

Motion: To continue application #30473 to the January 17, 2019 meeting to allow time to schedule a
noticed onsite tour and review all public input, UFA and SLC Health Department.
       Motion by: Commissioner Karkut
       2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                       Time Adjourned – 11:19 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary              Page 7 of 7
                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                  www.pwpds.slco.org




                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Thursday, January 17, 2019 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 24 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 20                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                   ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                 Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
         Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                  Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
          Brent Tippets            x           x
           Claire Clark                        x                                Wendy Gurr                      x             x
                                                                              Curtis Woodward                   x             x
   Andrew Wallace (Vice Chair)     x           x
                                                                               Jim Nakamura
        Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
           Jim Karkut                                    x
      Robert Pinon (Chair)         x           x
          Dale Berreth             x           x


                                                   BUSINESS MEETING

                                               Meeting began at – 8:35 a.m.
        Commissioner Tippets advised January 31st at 6:30 pm at the fire station for an open house by
        Mayor Smolka. Commissioner Clark will be stepping down from the planning commission, as she
        has been elected to the Community Council and Commissioner Tippets time has expired and will
        not seek reappointment.

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
       Election of Chair for 2019
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Pinon for Chair, Commissioner Pinon accepted.
              Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
              2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

        Election of Vice Chair for 2019
        Motion: To nominate Commissioner Wallace for Vice Chair, Commissioner Wallace accepted.
               Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
               2nd by: Commissioner Clark
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 1 of 7
    2) Approval of Minutes from the November 15, 2018 meeting.
        Motion: Continued to the next meeting.
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote:
        Commissioner Clark announced she will be stepping down and resigning from the planning
        commission and will join the public as this would be a conflict.
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                            PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                        Hearings began at – 8:40 a.m.

30473 – (Continued from 11/15/18) - John Walsh requests conditional use approval for commercial and
private recreation, including picnic area and gazebo for picnics, parties, and other gatherings, as well as two
single-lane gun ranges. Location: 2450 Pinecrest Canyon Road. Zone: FR-1 and FR-20. Planner: Curtis
Woodward

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner Tippets asked if recreational use clearly identifies commercial, and if the use specifically
says commercial. Mr. Woodward confirmed commercial and private recreation as one use. Commissioner
Tippets asked if they can get a clear definition on access from UFA. Mr. Woodward said they looked at it,
but didn’t hear back, but can see if they submitted anything and that’s why he went to the fire code.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said he would make an objection to James Karkut, he has a private personal conflict
of interest in this matter, regarding traffic and water issues, as well as a garage and home that are within ten
feet of the stream. His interest in the issues is much more personal than that of other Members of Emigration
Planning Commission. He (Mr. Walsh) has taken fire marshal on the property and met with him again after
the application was filed. He (fire marshal) asked if the road on the plans is the same road they looked at
on site. His main concern was for clearance for emergency vehicles on the sides, having driven the road
himself. Grateful to run with the matter, as the application has been pending for some time, it will be nice
to get direction. It is important to note they are not deciding whether to have a gazebo, he is entitled to a
gazebo. The question is whether he can use it for, commercial use, and work out the best arrangement.

Mr. Walsh showed his drone video going downhill and showed the drone video going uphill, pointing out
“turn-outs” where cars may pull off to pass one another

Commissioner Wallace asked where the house was located. Mr. Walsh said his personal residence is in lots
twenty-three and twenty-four of block eight. Important to note the question is not whether he can build a

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 2 of 7
gazebo, but whether it is for personal or recreational use. His family meaning, immediate family own 480
lots of record, 450 beyond the gate. Contrast the impact of a bus during the weekend, vs. the impact of 480
residential lots on traffic in the canyon. When the county put in the road restrictions, they acted in good
faith. Otherwise, we create a problem by making the road too narrow, then saying “you can’t do this
because the road’s too narrow.” The bottom line focusing on the different uses: Shooting in the area is
legal, but to make commercial or recreational use, conditions on that are reasonable can be put on it to
make it safe. It’s not illegal to discharge a firearm in the canyon if you are so far from the house. Mr. Walsh
said he met with the fire department, discussed capturing the bullet, and keeping the area clean of
combustibles. Conditions could be applied requiring compliance to code with necessary inspections.
Gazebo is private use; the issue is whether it can be used for commercial purposes. The storage containers,
sledding (already occurring privately), zipline would be by appointment only, least minimal impacts.
Commissioner Pinon referred to the video and asked of the road on pullouts and is it private or public and
posted. Mr. Walsh said pull outs typically allow plenty of room between road and garage to allow for use
without interfering with residential use. He submitted a map of an aerial showing the platted road parallel
to the travelled road on public land. The pullouts are primarily on public property within the platted right
of way, the travelled road stops at the gate., Judge Baldwin placed no limits on the sides of the road, just
“as wide as reasonably necessary.” Mr. Walsh submits that therefore the pull-outs on both sides are public.
There are places where there are designated signs with no parking, that was part of the analysis when put
together. Commissioner Tippets asked about recent health department review and facilities one hundred
feet from the creek. Mr. Walsh said he will do what’s appropriate, working with public health, and he
clearly believes he can be at least one hundred feet from the stream. Regarding “permanent” restroom
facilities, he proposes a temporary and contained system he can haul off each year rather than putting in
the ground (in a septic system). Commissioner Tippets said it’s up to the Health Department, but it would
affect the quantity on uses and a trailer solution would not comply with the quantity needed for a resort.
Mr. Walsh said he would submit that simply getting health department approval be one of those conditions,
rather than the planning commission naming the specific solution. Let the board of health mandate and
monitor the solution. Commissioner Wallace said outhouses would be insufficient for commercial use as an
alternative, they’re not permanent enough to withstand a strong wind, can’t control how often cleaned,
defer to the health department, use of outhouses would be insufficient. Mr. Walsh agrees with having the
health department oversee that. Commissioner Tippets said he is concerned about fires, and he doesn’t
have solutions as to mitigation of risk of fire for gun ranges, which are documented to have fire risks with
or without safety precautions. How do they anticipate not increasing the fire risk. Mr. Walsh said the current
risk is unregulated discharged firearms, which goes on today, as opposed to approval by this body with fire
department conditions to address fire safety. Have fire department confirm their conditions are complied
with. Commissioner Wallace said there is not adequate fire protection and no plan to upgrade and handle
a fire adequately and response time will be long. If a fire happened, you will have gridlock in the canyon
and residents in peril. “Legal to discharge,” may be true, and it’s strictly up to the person to behave, but
when taken to a commercial level, it’s adding a lot more risk, which has not been addressed adequately to
be approved. Mr. Walsh said the fire department officials are the experts and would have to approve the
specific conditions. Commissioner Wallace said regarding public access through the canyon, he saw ski
tracks on existing trails through the shooting ranges in the video presentation, and asked “will the trails be
blocked off?” Mr. Walsh said the map shows where the trails are as defined by the plat, and the ranges
aren’t over public property. Otherwise, one could come through and want to ski through his private
backyard. The gun range doesn’t cross over public land (either one). Commissioner Berreth said his
concern as far as gun and fire safety, at this point, there’s an occasional hunter person discharging, once
you put in a gun range you’re inviting people to come in, incidents of gun use will be greater, which is a
concern for fire. Mr. Walsh said family goes up there and shoots rather frequently, but an increase will
increase the risk. Commissioner Wallace said just having more people going up there increases the fire
risk. Noise coming from the gun range isn’t compatible with the residential area, daily sessions will drive
wildlife off from the area. Mr. Walsh stated, the gun ranges are designed to shoot away from down canyon

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                 Page 3 of 7
residents, shooting into the larger “uphill” mountain, and based on mountain terrain, feels that the noise
won’t travel as far as an open area gun range. Noise will be heard, but the board of health would be the
gate keeper. Commissioner Wallace said he can hear the rifle fire from Parley’s Canyon every day in a
separate canyon, miles away. Mr. Walsh said you can see the gun range from their home and isn’t
obstructed by the mountain. Commissioner Wallace said he’s talking about the range further down the
canyon, not the one across from the golf course, and that residents from Pinecrest would hear every shot,
which cannot be mitigated. Commissioner Wallace asked where a fire truck would turn around. Mr. Walsh
said: one, right in front of home, in front of 2348, two, at the very top below the gazebo, three, another area
over by the trailers. Instead of trying to guess, he suggests letting the fire department make the decision.
Commissioner Wallace asked if those areas would be full of cars during an event. Mr. Walsh said only on
Friday and Saturday nights would they have events with 20 or more cars, and they would not be filling up
those areas. Commissioner Pinon asked if the fire marshal asked if the road needed to be improved to
support the weight of a fire truck. Mr. Walsh said no, the clearance with foliage was all the fire marshal
discussed.

Speaker # 2: Emigration Canyon Community Council
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said her term starts on the 27th. Community Council entered a specific and detailed
letter opposing this.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said already entered comments. Hijacking conversation, private conversation with
fire marshal, does not mean meets current ordinances or through process. Decision made by the county to
adopt maintenance of the road but doesn’t meet county standards. County recognizes, if there is a new venue
or variance or conditional use and road should be looked at again. Should meet 2019 code with new
commercial venue and should be up to date. Planning Commission needs to consider that. Applicant
acknowledges public right of way and gun use would impact right of way and should look to reconciliation.
Almost fire safety body, says if not when you have a fire, it’s when. Fire department is not in charge of
determining risk. Applicant seems to feel the fire department will determine if risk is ok, it’s not their job.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Tom Johnson
Address: 2326 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Johnson said 8 unidentified issues. He read from his letter submitted this morning as part
of the record. Addressed some issues Mr. Walsh brought up. A third of distance of his gate and subdivision.
The existing road coincides, that isn’t true. There isn’t a beaver dam, Mr. Walsh created a dam up there.
480 lots could be 480 homes and more traffic, not legitimate, only handful of developable lots. Width of
the road, this is private property, people’s homes all sit next to the road, to imagine save claim it’s a public
road for width, not applicable, his going up and shooting guns.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Dr. Cynthia Furse
Address: 2295 North Pinecrest Canyon
Comments: Dr. Furse said she is representation on the lower portion of the road and went over the video
going up the road. Identifying the driveways, turnouts and steepness and narrowness of the road. Double
amount of snow, and emergency services and fire. Unable to pass a car, doubling amount of homes and
traffic would be throughout the day, consider a quick flow of traffic. Mr. Walsh has parties and may have

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 4 of 7
ten to twenty cars, not 100. All future owners would be allowed to do what the conditional use permits.
Major issues for a family living in this canyon. Rarely plowed on pullout. Since decision of turnarounds,
rocks have been added and signs blocking the turnaround. 10 mph listed, just the general public in mask is
an unreasonable expectation. How deep the stream drops, with people driving up and down. Commercial
event with 4-wheel drive is zero. Mentioned pullouts is private property, driveway paved and has added
both garbage cans are not a public pullout. Don’t assume road has sufficient pullouts. All fire marshal
concerned with is bushes. All bushes along her line were pruned, likely the fire marshal came up were
pruned and on my private property, there was illegal pruning representing. Encourage everything evaluated
and don’t trust anyone but own evaluation. No source of fire protection water is sufficient. Not proposed
putting in sufficient water tank, increased fire risk and insufficient fire protection and fire access.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Vides Backman
Address: unable to identify
Comments: Mr. Backman said the planning commission takes fire seriously, increased risk, three fires in
Idaho and two in Utah directly related to target shooting and climate change. Governor declared state of
emergency, drought worsens wildfire conditions. Estimated over fifty percent increase in 2018, pipeline
along main canyon, if wildfire gets to that point emigration canyon is toast, winds spread flames of wildfire.
Studies indicated ground water mining, has proven fire increase, significant role in California wildfire,
firetrucks not there in five minutes and not easily reached. Not location for development. Conditional use
standards shall not pose serious threat to residents and property and should be denied. Noise pollution, 140
to 190 decibels. Health department standards implementing sound cannot exceed 70 decibels, this should
be denied. Road access should be twenty feet wide. In 1983 settlement between county and residents to
obtain rural mountain setting, county considered mitigating measures with shuttle services. Narrow road is
rural mountain setting. If you change the nature of area, you would have to reconsider access to the roads.
Increased in traffic and he has counted cars and four to twenty per day, weddings up to twenty-five cars,
only for guests. Conditional use standards and shall not pose traffic hazards, doesn’t feel the development
complies and should be denied.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Sarah Bennett
Address: 64 North Silver Oak Road
Comments: Ms. Bennett said she was involved in the review of general plan and mayors blue ribbon
commission to review FCOZ. At no time did they ever conceive a commercial development in the upper
regions of the canyon. Maintain public access and public recreation and trails, open space. Specifically
considered restriction of commercial development. Respect owner rights, commercial development is far
outside of ever conceived of planning reviews of FCOZ. Fire concerns, lack of water, impacts to wildlife
and public lands. Given applicants track record intentionally discourage public access, cannot or do not
approve.

Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Matt Velinder
Address: 5222 Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Velinder said there are three choices, numerous things in direct contact with general plan.
Private mountain feel in the canyon. Gun use, noise, fire risk. He’s unable to mitigate within his proposal
and deny on that basis. Toilets and water issues not mitigated. Water change applications with Utah state
engineer, for operation of wells, would be dependent on those applications approval. Highlights the facts
and telling things not any other resident shows support. Strong opposition and haven’t had ample
notifications of the meetings and doing grass roots efforts. Bad faith arguments, these aren’t pullouts, they
are private driveways.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                Page 5 of 7
Speaker # 9: Citizen
Name: Linda Evans
Address: 5864 East Emigration
Comments: Ms. Evans said her husband went to the water rights meeting and didn’t get an answer. Gazebo,
no permit and how many feet from the stream. He already violated the law, rocks and signs, also violated
our rules. Not a good standard to give a permit.

Speaker # 10: Citizen
Name: Melinda McIlwaine
Address: 2148 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. McIlwaine said if she put rocks on boundaries of her property, you wouldn’t be able to
drive up past her house, 400 square feet of her property has been procured for that road and called task
commission and if she was paying taxes, many pullouts are on private property. Has a map for additional
parking on emigration canyon road and all dirt pullouts, you never see many cars in any of those places and
precreation of public property of private use. Did well application, provide him with additional water, real
water issues in holding capacity. Surprised you can shoot on your property when there is a hunting
restriction. Wouldn’t appreciate the noise. Private road is subject to prescript use and dirt road has been
used by the public extensively, before Mr. Walsh. Tom Johnson built illegal ponds and saying anything
about Mr. Karkut ten feet from creek and he’s impaired the flow of the creek with the ponds. Read a portion
of letter sent to the tribune. Plow fell in the creek and had to remove part of the bank to get a vehicle up,
behind the vehicle and replaced with big rocks. This should not move forward.

Speaker # 11: Citizen
Name: Ben Doblin
Address: 2230 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Doblin said there will be increased traffic up the canyon, narrowest stretch of road in front
of his house one way. Cars meet head to head, they pull into the nearest driveway, his has received three
direct hits to his garage door and would be increased to fill up Mr. Walsh parking spaces. It’s illegal to
discharge firearm on southern side of ridge. Wildlife found refuge and why we enjoy living there and driven
from the property and further east. Give wildlife a break. This is inappropriate, and a man wants to make
something happen and entirely reasonable and encourage to deny outright. If passes will be back here
looking for a zoning change and his house has a huge operation as a Pinecrest Inn. No public support.

Speaker # 12: Citizen
Name: Greg White
Address: 1990 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. White said sewage is a big issue with the quantity, especially with proximity of his venues
to the creek, huge issue. Removing outhouses and putting them in is not a solution. Mr. Walsh care for the
creek over the last decade has extracted fill on the road, that is his road, with literally hundreds of dump
truck roads and claims would never want to endanger the creek and has dumped cement into the creek.
SWPPP is aware and hasn’t made any criteria. Statement is false in relationship to his care of the creek.
Example of how he does projects and won’t budge, permit should have been applied for his gazebo, and
dam constructions. Containment done, except cutting diversions across his road. Erosion factor is
unprecedented no fish left in Pinecrest creek, has broadened, no depth. Fill brought in, brought nauseous
weeds and seeds. County issued an extreme care guide. Damage can be pointed at the Walsh project, look
at the road, creek runs amuck. Sure, of what he says in relationship to this. Eye sore for Pinecrest with no
sight on view what this will become. Condition of creek due to run off, this is unacceptable, and points need
to be taken into consideration for future decisions. What is this building going to be, is it a resident or foot
in the door for commercial property.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 6 of 7
Speaker # 13: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said there are water rights, provide documents. Stop work order on gazebo and now
lifted. Maps submitted on pullouts and his project doesn’t change state engineer, no people going
simultaneously. Solution is fire and health cover what need covered.

Speaker # 14: Citizen
Name: Mike Bogart
Address: 6324 East Lefthand Fork Lane
Comments: Mr. Bogart said he has lived her for 34 years. Mr. Walsh is negligent.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding public easement, platted right-of-way, paved
surface within thirty-three feet, vacated trails, preliminary approval, definition of gun use, driveway, water,
fire hazards and firetrucks, traffic issues.

Motion: To deny conditional use application #30473 for commercial and recreational use, where the
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use could not substantially be mitigated by the proposal or
the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
        Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
        2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 10:59 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                 Page 7 of 7
