                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org




         Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                      Thursday, July 11, 2019 8:30am
Location
SALT LAKE COUNTY GOVERNMENT CENTER
2001 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM N1-110
NORTH BUILDING, MAIN FLOOR
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                     PUBLIC HEARINGS

30939 – Ordinance Amendments – Enactment of an administrative code enforcement process to
be codified in Title 12 of the Emigration Metro Township Municipal Code.

                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of Minutes from the November 15, 2018, January 17, and June 13, 2019
       meetings.
    2) General Plan Discussion
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                              ADJOURN




July 11, 2019                               Page 1 of 2      AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
           TITLE 12 – CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY
                            PRESERVATION
                                 CHAPTER 12.1 – GENERAL

12.1.010       SHORT TITLE.

This Title shall be known as the “Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program.” This
Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the [insert Metro Township name] Municipal
Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation.

12.1.020       AUTHORITY.

The Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702– 703.7;
10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or successor
statute(s).

12.1.030       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The [insert Metro Township name] Metro Township finds that the enforcement of its Municipal
Code and applicable state codes throughout the municipality is an important public service. Code
enforcement and abatement are vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, and quality of
life. The Council recognizes that enforcement starts with the drafting of precise regulations that
can be effectively applied in administrative code enforcement hearings and judicial proceedings.
The Council further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination
of judicial and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a
manner that is fair and equitable to the Metro Township and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Metro Township Attorney to file a judicial
action to gain compliance.

12.1.040       SCOPE.

The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the [insert Metro Township name]
Code. It has been designed as an additional remedy for the Metro Township to use in achieving
compliance of its ordinances.

12.1.050       EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED.

The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional remedy available for the enforcement
of those ordinances together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict between
this Title and another provision of the Metro Township Code, this Title shall control.

12.1.060       CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.

The Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the
violation of any of its ordinances. The Metro Township may choose to file both, or one, or the


                                                 1
other. The enactment of the administrative remedies set forth in this Title shall in no way interfere
with the Metro Township’s right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses in a court
of law. The Metro Township may use any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and
criminal prosecution. If the Metro Township chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the
same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies will be available.

12.1.070       EFFECT OF HEADINGS.

Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter,
part, or section hereof.

12.1.080       VALIDITY OF TITLE – SEVERABILITY.

If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Title. The
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and chapter, part, section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this
Title.

12.1.090       NO MANDATORY DUTY – CIVIL LIABILITY.

It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or establishing an
obligation to act by a Metro Township officer, employee, or designee, these standards shall not
be construed as creating a mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or
designee fails to perform his or her directed duty or duties.

12.1.100       GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.

For purposes of this Title:

(1)   Any gender includes the other gender(s).

(2)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

(3)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.

(4)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.

(5)   Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed
      according to the context and approved usage of the language.




                                                   2
12.1.110       DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in
this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:

(1)   “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Metro Township may take on public or private
      property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
      including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or
      replacement of property.

(2)   “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative Law
      Judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
      administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
      applicable state codes.

(3)   “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
      [insert Metro Township name] § Code 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4)   “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
      established in [insert Metro Township name] § Code 8.1.

(5)   “Chief Building Inspector” means the official authorized and responsible for planning,
      directing, and managing the building inspection activities within the Metro Township.

(6)   “Council" means the Council of [insert Metro Township name].

(7)   “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
      administrative fees, and costs.

(8)   “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
      ensure compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action,
      or an administrative code enforcement order.

(9)   “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(10) “Department” means the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department, or its designee.

(11) “Director” means the director of the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
     agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(12) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce violations of the Metro
     Township Code or applicable state codes.

(13) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
     a property.


                                                3
(14) “Fire Department” means the applicable entity or official(s) that is authorized and
     responsible for providing fire and emergency services to the Metro Township.

(15) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
     to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
     causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
     acts.

(16) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
     immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(17) “Legal Interest” means any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
     quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other
     similar instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.

(18) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
     of [insert Metro Township Name], and such territory outside of this Metro Township over
     which the [insert Metro Township Name] has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
     constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.

(19) “Minor violation” means nuisance violations, as defined in state law and by Utah State
     Courts, to include:

   a.    Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning of the property;

   b.    Unauthorized collections of motor vehicles that are unlicensed, unregistered, and/or
         inoperable;

   c.    Trash, litter, illegal dumping, and weeds;

   d.    Nuisance noise and lighting;

   e.    Illegal advertising; and

   f.    The unauthorized use of public streets and sidewalks that stem from news racks,
         merchandise displays, mobile food vending, and other such illegal uses.

(20) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Metro Township, representing that
     a property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(21) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
     Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
     have been either paid in full, or that the Metro Township has negotiated an agreed amount,
     or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In
     addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with
     the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
     informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
     correct the violations.

                                                 4
(23) “Oath” includes affirmations and oaths.

(24) “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
     association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
     agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by
     law as the subject of rights or duties.

(25) “Program” means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program authorized
     under this Title.

(26) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's
     records.

(27) “Public Nuisance” means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that
     constitutes a threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or that significantly obstructs,
     injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in a neighborhood or
     community or by any considerable number of persons. A public nuisance also has the same
     meaning as set forth in the Utah Code Annotated.

(28) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,
     dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as
     an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the
     person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a
     responsible person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.

(29) “Treasurer” means the [insert Metro Township name] Treasurer as designated pursuant to
     Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(30) “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

(31) “[Insert Metro Township name],” means [insert Metro Township name], a municipal
     corporation under state law. May also be referred to “the Metro Township” and/or “the
     Municipality” pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).

12.1.111       ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.

Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

12.1.200       PART 2 – SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210       SERVICE OF PROCESS.

(1)   Whenever service is required to be given under this Title, service shall be made on the
      property owner and any non-owner occupant of the property, if applicable, in accordance
      with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 or any applicable successor statute(s), unless another form
      of service is required by law.

(2)   If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid service


                                                  5
      even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the validity of
      any proceedings taken under this Title.

(3)   The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.

12.1.220       CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.

Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.

12.1.300       PART 3 – GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.

12.1.310       GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate administrative
enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any designated
enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate public
and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available under
the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.1.320       ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.

The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to the
hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other matters relating to the Program.

12.1.330       AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes
are being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as may be necessary in the
performance of the enforcement duties. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or
other physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement
official to enter the property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.

12.1.340       POWER TO ARREST.

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes in the enforcement
official's presence.

12.1.350       FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.



                                                  6
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Metro Township official
or agent, including but not limited to the Director any authorized enforcement officials, when in
the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation of this
Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.1.360            FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.

It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.

             CHAPTER 12.2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                                PROCEDURES
12.2.010            AUTHORITY.

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the Metro
Township pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.020            NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

(1)        Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation of
           the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the
           Director or enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The
           notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code
           § 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

      a.      Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;

      b.      Street address of violation;

      c.      Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

      d.      Date and approximate time the violation was observed;

      e.      All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
              applicable codes;

      f.      A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
              outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal,
              eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;

      g.      A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of
              violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of service unless the Director
              determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under Section 12.2.200;



                                                      7
      h.      Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the
              terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is
              not limited to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of
              the notice of violation; withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the
              violation by the Metro Township and re-payment to the Metro Township for the costs of
              the abatement; other costs incurred by the Metro Township; administrative fees; and any
              other legal remedies;

      i.      That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct
              violations;

      j.      The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty will accrue daily
              until the property is brought into compliance;

      k.      That only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month period, and that civil
              penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The
              responsible person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the
              same procedure as provided for the original notice;

      l.      Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530,
              and consequences for failure to request one; and

      m.      Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated pursuant to
              Section 12.2.040.

(2)        The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in Section
           12.1.210 of this Title.

(3)        More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if it
           encompasses different dates, or different violations.

12.2.030            FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

(1)        If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance period
           specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for
           each and every subsequent day of violation.

(2)        Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040            INSPECTIONS.

It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing
an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence
that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate
daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-inspection fees
shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.




                                                      8
12.2.200            PART 2 – EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210            AUTHORITY.

(1)        Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
           immediate correction or elimination, the Director may exercise the following powers without
           prior notice to the responsible person:

      a.      Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until all
              repairs are completed, provided that an order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry is
              to be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any
              other purpose, if any, during the abatement process.

      b.      Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

      c.      Board, fence, or secure the building or site;

      d.      Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and remove
              any hazard to the general public;

      e.      Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety
              hazard; or

      f.      Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

(2)        The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the property
           without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety
           hazard.

(3)        The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the life
           safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220            PROCEDURES.

(1)        The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
           eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred by the Metro Township during the
           emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person
           through the procedures outlined in Chapter 12.3 of this Title regarding “Administrative and
           Judicial Remedies” section.

(2)        The Director may also pursue any other valid and legal administrative or judicial remedy to
           abate any remaining violations.

12.2.230            NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.

After an emergency abatement, the Metro Township shall notify the owner or responsible person
of the abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall be served within ten days of completion


                                                      9
of the abatement and will describe in reasonable detail the abatement actions taken.

12.2.300       PART 3 – DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310       AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may
demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section
12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining
the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition.
Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320       PROCEDURES.

Once the Director has determined that the Metro Township Chief Building Inspector or the Fire
Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property
will be demolished. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued.


12.2.400       PART 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal
remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes.

12.2.420       AUTHORITY.

(1)   Any person violating any minor provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable state
      codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this
      Part.

(2)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
      enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Metro Township Treasurer's Office,
      or other offices designated to receive payment on behalf of the Metro Township.

(3)   Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance
      with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12-2-403.      PROCEDURES.


                                                10
(1)   Upon discovering any violation of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes, an
      enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the
      manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative
      citation shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.

(2)   If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
      business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement
      official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given
      to the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to
      the business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section
      12.1.210 of this Title.

(3)   Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain
      the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses
      or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
      validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

(4)   If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then
      the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed
      in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(5)   If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
      conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
      person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(6)   The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

(7)   The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the
      validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440       CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1)   State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

(2)   Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
      and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450       CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

(1)   The Metro Township Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil
      penalties for administrative citations.

(2)   Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative
      citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.

(3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar
      further enforcement action by the Metro Township.


                                                  11
12.2.500            PART 5 – HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510            DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Metro Township Code. It is the purpose and intent
of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the
administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action.
These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly
resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520            AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS.

The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Metro Township Code violations.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing
process for any violation of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are handled
pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the
demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the
appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the
Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530            REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

(1)        A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request an
           administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar days from
           the date of service of one of the following notices:

      a.      Notice of violation;

      b.      Notice of itemized bill for costs;

      c.      Administrative citation;

      d.      Notice of emergency abatement;

(2)        The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
           The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the signature of
           the responsible party.

(3)        As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
           Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

(4)        Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and
           a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12.2.540            HEARINGS AND ORDERS.



                                                      12
(1)        If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
           deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge
           shall schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the
           hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.

(2)        A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
           penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Metro Township before collection, if a hearing
           on that case has not already been held.

(3)        At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to show
           that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition
           to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable
           law:

      a.      Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

      b.      Postpone an abatement action by the Metro Township; or

      c.      Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within the 20-day period.

(4)        If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set
           forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and
           any other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall
           not accept any other evidence.

      a.      If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall
              enter an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and
              fees. Fines shall run until the Director or other duly authorized representative of the
              Metro Township issues a Notice of Compliance stating when the violations were actually
              abated.

12.2.550            NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                    HEARING.

(1)        Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to a responsible
           person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

(2)        The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and policies
           promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(3)        The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
           12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560            DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)        A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge
           for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be
           disqualified in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit
           or unsworn declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor


                                                      13
           statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:

      a.      State that the motion is filed in good faith;

      b.      Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason
              that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and

      c.      State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for
              disqualification.

(2)        The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action
           to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should
           have known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

(3)        A responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge,
           unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not
           know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

(4)        The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
           taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion
           to the Metro Township Council.

(5)        Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Metro Township Council will schedule and notice
           the matter for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council
           may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a special meeting to hear the motion before its next
           regularly scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council shall first review the motion to
           disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
           Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this Section, the
           Council will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative Law Judge for further
           proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2)
           of this Section, the Metro Township Council shall determine whether the motion is legally
           sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the Metro Township Council determines that
           disqualification is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge.
           If the Metro Township Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not legally
           sufficient, it will remand the matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570            POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)        The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations of
           Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Metro Township ordinances, and
           enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions of the
           Title.

(2)        The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one
           of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the
           good cause on which a continuance is granted.

(3)        The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign subpoenas
           for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness for the


                                                      14
      admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs
      related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party
      requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and
      procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement
      hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

(4)   The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
      administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering
      compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies
      available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to
      authorize the Metro Township to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative
      code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
      hearing.

(5)   The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a
      code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
      enforcement order.

12.2.580       PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               HEARING.

(1)   Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal rules
      of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may
      be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis
      for a continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released unless the
      complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative
      hearing shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(2)   The Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement
      hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes.

(3)   The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues at
      an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
      violations exist.

(4)   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
      support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be
      accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other
      electronic means.

(5)   All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may be
      held at the location of the violation.

(6)   The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
      representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and
      telephone number must be given to the Metro Township at least one day prior to the hearing.
      If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Metro Township's request, and all
      costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.


                                                 15
(7)   No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that
      extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590.      FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               HEARING.

Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will
result in a default judgment for the Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the hearing
has been provided.

12.2.591       ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

(1)   Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
      administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or citation.
      The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties
      and costs that are due pursuant to the Metro Township's fee schedule and the procedures in
      this Title.

(2)   The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties. This
      agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of
      this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.

(3)   The Administrative Law Judge may order the Metro Township to enter the property and
      abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles,
      garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Metro Township Code.

(4)   The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right
      to possess animals as provided in the Metro Township Code.

(5)   As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
      condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability
      to complete compliance by specified deadlines.

(6)   The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
      necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
      administrative code enforcement order.

(7)   The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance bond
      to ensure compliance with the order.

(8)   The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of
      the order.

(9)   The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the
      methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                 16
12-2-595            FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.

(1)        Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth
           in the administrative code enforcement order, the Metro Township may abate the violation
           as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means to recover
           the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

(2)        After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
           Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine compliance.

12.2.600            PART 6 – ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS

12.2.610            APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
                    DECISION.

(1)        Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of this
           Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30
           days after the decision is rendered.

(2)        No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
           officer's decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

(3)        Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request a
           copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
           Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing
           court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs. The petitioning party's
           failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the record,
           within 180 days after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the
           petition.

      a.      If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete
              or unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the
              Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The
              district court may limit the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the
              court's opinion, need to be clarified.

(4)        The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is being
           appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record
           of that decision.

(5)        The courts shall:

      a.      Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders
              are valid; and

      b.      Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
              illegal.



                                                       17
      CHAPTER 12.3 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
12.3.100        PART 1 –RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION

12.3.110        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the
issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.3.120        AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record
the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
Office.

12.3.130        PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

(1)   Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property
      remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request
      for an administrative hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation
      with the County Recorder's Office.

(2)   If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Metro Township's favor, the
      Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
      Office.

(3)   The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
      description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

(4)   The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties
      on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140        SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.

A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                   18
12.3.150       FAILURE TO REQUEST.

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160       NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE – PROCEDURES.

(1)   When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may
      request an inspection of the property from the Director.

(2)   Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon as
      practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order
      have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
      inspections have been performed.

(3)   The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner
      in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that:

(4)   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

(5)   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

(6)   All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

(7)   The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

(8)   If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
      shall serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the
      denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in
      Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.170       WITHHOLDING OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANT
               PROPERTIES.

The Metro Township may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that has been
requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code until the
Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s) pursuant to this Title. The
Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of satisfaction or
that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180       CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.




                                                 19
12.3.200       PART 2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210       AUTHORITY.

(1)   Any person violating any provision of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes,
      may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

(2)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.

(3)   Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date and
      violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.

(4)   Interest shall be assessed per Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate provided in
      Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Metro Township policy, on all outstanding civil
      penalties balances until the case has been paid in full.

(5)   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Metro Township’s applicable fee schedule.

12.3.220       PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
      of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for each and
      every subsequent day of violation.

(2)   Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Metro Township
      Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230       DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Metro
      Township fee schedule.

(2)   Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
      compliance with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240       MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
      responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of good
      cause.

(2)   Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or her
      discretion, if there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
      nonconforming use or conditional use and:

(3)   The Metro Township’s need to verify the claim; or


                                                20
(4)        The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date
           to correct.

12.3.250            FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the
Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300            PART 3 – ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310            AUTHORITY TO ABATE.

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized
to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320            PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.

(1)        The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under Section
           12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any
           applicable successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or Parties:

      a.      Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued pursuant to
              Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

      b.      The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for an administrative code
              enforcement hearing under Section 12.2.530.

(2)        The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
           12.2.504 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate the
           violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or applicable
           successor statute(s).

(3)        The Director may use Metro Township personnel or by a private contractor acting under his
           or her direction or the direction of the Metro Township to abate the violation.

(4)        Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
           reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation or
           administrative code enforcement order.

(5)        If the responsible person abates the violation before the Metro Township performs the actual
           abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the
           Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Metro Township against the responsible
           person.

(6)        When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
           work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor


                                                     21
      statute(s).

(7)   The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance with
      Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

(8)   The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in
      response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and
      any related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
      successor statute(s).

12.3.400        PART 4 – COSTS

12.3.410        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

(1)   The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials and
      other Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-inspecting
      properties throughout the Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance with the Metro
      Township Code or applicable state codes.

(2)   The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
      expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees,
      attorney fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by
      the Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall
      not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for
      violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420        AUTHORITY.

(1)   Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Metro Township on a property to obtain
      compliance with provisions of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes, the
      Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

(2)   Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
      additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable Metro
      Township fee schedule as adopted in the Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430        NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

(1)   Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Metro Township shall be
      provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

(2)   Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
      other costs assessed.

(3)   The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
      affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.




                                                22
12.3.440       FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result
in a late fee pursuant to Metro Township policy.

12.3.500       PART 5 – ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510       ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.

The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Metro Township fee schedule.


12.3.600       PART 6 –- INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610       CIVIL VIOLATIONS – INJUNCTIONS.

In addition to any other remedy provided under the Metro Township Code or state codes, including
criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Metro Township Code may
be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by the Metro
Township.


12.3.700       PART 7 – PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710       PERFORMANCE BOND.

(1)   As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
      authority to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance
      with the Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

(2)   If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond will be
      forfeited to the Metro Township. The bond will not be used to offset the other outstanding
      costs and fees associated with the case.




                                                 23
 CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
                        AND COSTS
12.4.100       PART 1 – CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

12.4.110       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil
penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Metro Township's code enforcement system. The
procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial
remedies that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.4.120       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

(1)   Once the Metro Township has abated a property for weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or
      deleterious objects or structures, the Director shall prepare three copies of the Itemized
      Statement of Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver them
      to the Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the work of removing the
      violations.

(2)   The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's last known address, a
      copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing him or her that a code enforcement tax
      lien is being recorded for the amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due
      within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

(3)   Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs, the Metro Township Mayor shall record a
      Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property with the County Treasurer's office.

(4)   The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the notice
      of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect the
      outstanding costs of abatement.

12.4.130       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real
property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140.      CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.

Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount is
deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall either
record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial institution
with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the county


                                                  24
recorder's office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same information as
provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction of judgment
shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200       PART 2 – WRIT OF EXECUTION

12.4.201       RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means. This may include the execution on personal property owned by the responsible person by
filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.300       PART 3 – WRIT OF GARNISHMENT

12.4.310       RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means. This may include the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and other income or
financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400       PART 4 – ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER
               ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410       ABATEMENT FUND.

There is, hereby established, a revolving fund to be known as the "Abatement Fund" to defray
costs of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from
the property or property owner as specified in this Title and by the courts. The Metro Township
Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered or
authorized under the abatement provision of this Title.

12.4.420.      REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.

All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement
costs shall be paid to the Metro Township Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to
the Abatement Fund.

12.4.430       CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.

Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant
to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Metro Township Council for the
enhancement of the Metro Township's code enforcement efforts and to reimburse the Metro
Township for investigative costs and costs associated with the hearing process. Fees and costs
deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Metro
Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the Metro Township Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection.

                                                25
12.4.440       ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Metro
Township. Civil penalties deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the Metro Township Manager and the Metro Township Council. The Metro
Township Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit, and collection.




                                                26
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                 www.pwpds.slco.org




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                   EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                              Thursday, November 15, 2018 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 49 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 40                                   found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Tippets

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                 Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
         Brent Tippets           x           x
          Claire Clark           x           x                                 Wendy Gurr
                                                                             Curtis Woodward                   x             x
       Andrew Wallace            x           x
                                                                              Jim Nakamura                     x             x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
          Jim Karkut             x           x
         Robert Pinon            x           x
         Dale Berreth            x           x


                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 8:30 a.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the December 14, 2017 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the December 14, 2017 meeting as presented.
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

                                             PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                         Hearings began at – 8:32 a.m.

30473 – John Walsh requests conditional use approval for commercial and private recreation, including
picnic area and gazebo for picnics, parties, and other gatherings, as well as two single-lane gun ranges on
property at 2450 Pinecrest Canyon Road. Zone: FR-1 and FR-20. Planner: Curtis Woodward


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 7
Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner asked if there is a public comment period. Mr. Woodward advised there isn’t a comment
period per county policy.

Commissioner Tippets asked for a description of public notification process. Mr. Woodward described the
process within 300 feet of the property, in the last 48 hours word travels quickly. Commissioner Tippets
asked if the parking would affect that or not. Mr. Woodward said if the planning commission were to
entertain, we would make sure we renotify with the number of parcels involved. Mr. Woodward advised
received a letter from a water company that needed to be notified under FCOZ, and we don’t have the other
water companies mapped out. Commissioner Tippets said there are restrictions of firearms within the
canyon. Mr. Woodward said we can find out, but his records that hasn’t been an issue, but there is a
restriction on hunting. Commissioner Tippets said there isn’t a traffic study done. Mr. Woodward said not
to his knowledge, there was reference made to a traffic study by Johansen and he has not seen a traffic
study done by a transportation engineer. Commissioner said may have been thinking of Pinecrest pipeline
operating company when thinking of a water company, the metro township board adopted an amendment
to the FCOZ. Under state law, presumption in favor of a conditional use application can be substantially
mitigated by conditions. The packet provided was not in conflict with the emigration general plan and one
comment letter quoted language and doesn’t need to be resolved. The land in Pinecrest is within a
subdivision plat and does have several roads and trails identified and whether they’re overlaid. Mr.
Woodward said the roads running through the property has been subject to discussion. Commissioner
curious about the firing range and if the county has experience. Mr. Woodward said we have and the unique
one is in parleys canyon by the sheriff’s department as a public use. Commissioner asked if the applicant
included the total stalls, include employees, rentals, vendors, etc. Mr. Woodward said there weren’t stalls
specifically labeled. Commissioner Clark said all the issues overlap, if fire marshal decided to have
emergency fire access and couldn’t turn around, widening the road would affect private property.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said suggest take questions. Biggest issue is wedding setting, occurring in the
evening on the weekend coming through Parley’s Canyon. Resolution passed not allowing the road to be
15 feet across, and county designed turnouts and put up no parking to address specific needs. From his own
property, the fire department suggested enlarging foliage.

Commissioner asked how many employees for zipline and gun range. Mr. Walsh said wedding would be
solely vehicle driving vehicles. If he needed busses he doesn’t intend to provide food. Drivers for weddings,
no significant employees. Commissioner asked if he anticipated rental equipment. Mr. Walsh said on the
application is for two storage units, would store equipment there. Commissioner asked if there was a traffic
study performed. Mr. Walsh said he spoke to great lengths with the county but hasn’t engaged a traffic
study. Commissioner asked the timing of the different activities, planning to hold them year-round or
seasonal limits. Mr. Walsh said one activity at a time. Commissioner said application doesn’t specify time
frames. Mr. Walsh said happy to have times placed as conditions. Safety is important to him. Commissioner
asked if there is a need for a gun range. Mr. Walsh said under recreational it is appropriate, his family is
big on guns. Commissioner asked where the gun ranges would be located. Mr. Walsh said block 11 for
pistols and would not go over platted right of ways and kept on private property. Commissioner asked about

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary              Page 2 of 7
mitigating a fire if started. Mr. Walsh said two existing fire hydrants on the property. Commissioner asked
if fed by his own tank. Mr. Walsh said his own with 12,000 gallons upper and below. Upper shooting range
is block 15. Commissioner asked if the existing home is intended for this conditional use. Mr. Walsh said
none and would be for additional parking. Commissioner said application in the works for a long time,
interest of disclosure to schedule a visit to the property. Mr. Walsh said he is open to that.

Commissioner Tippets asked for a show of hands to speak, interest of time contain precise and be respectful
and focus on relevant information. Limit the time to two minutes and tracking the time. Commissioner said
two minutes is too short. Commissioner Tippets agrees with that but avoid redundancy. Commissioner
agreed to 3 ½ minutes and avoid redundancy.

Speaker # 2: Emigration Canyon Community Council Chair
Name: Steve Borst
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Borst read a letter from the community council to the planning commission dated
November 14th.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said she has been a resident for 25 years. Applaud community council with their
statement, joining community council in January. Was on community council when Pinecrest Road was
under review and requests look into it with regards to pullouts. States her oppositions on traffic and fire
safety. Objects on noise concerns. Read from a portion of her letter.

Speaker # 4: Emigration Canyon Homeowners Association
Name: Mark Tracy
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Tracy said opposes this project, and Brent Tippets should recuse himself as he is co
chairman emigration improvement district. Problem reviewing the water rights. No water rights approved
for commercial use. Point of diversion identified by Brent Tippets. This has been protested by 50 residents.
Reject proceeding, due to public notice, they only heard of this meeting three days prior. Proposal was
distributed at cc meeting minus pictures. He pointed out a structure being a private residence, reason to
believe not a single-family resident, this is a resort. They oppose any water rights. Salt Lake City was
presented an opportunity to review in April, the proposal was completed in May. Ask public notice given,
for public meeting.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Tom Johnson
Address: 2326 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Johnson said prepared a letter and distributed and another letter from resident Mr. Darver.
Read the portion of the road from the letter. Read from the portion of the public right of way and trails.
Requests denial.

Speaker # 6: President, Spring Land Water Company
Name: Lisa Fitzgerald
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Fitzgerald said she has not been notified until Tuesday. They have a 60,000-gallon tank
which supports a smaller area, was barely adequate for fire prevention and pay EID to put in additional
hydrants to support suppression, don’t think its sufficient.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 7
Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Melinda McIlwaine
Address: 2148 Pinecrest Canyon
Comments: Ms. McIlwaine read a letter from the Steve Moore, president of Pinecrest pipeline operating
company addressed to Mayor Smolka. Her property has been affected by the widening of the road and dig
a 14-foot hole, nothing to prevent driving in to the hole. County plows fall in to the creek, the bus turn
around was paved. The gate is never supposed to be closed, muddy in the spring or an appropriate road. No
way for another car to pull over, due to the boulders.

Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Heather Ross
Address: 4347 Laneview Court
Comments: Ms. Ross said last night searched the internet for 11 instances where wildfires were started on
legal target ranges. Study by the us forest service in 2013, every firearm has potential to ricochet and cause
fire. Ask the applicant to withdraw that aspect of his plan, not worth the risk.

Speaker # 9: Citizen
Name: Cindy Furse
Address: 2295 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Furse said water and traffic would be affected and wasn’t formally notified. Sent an email
and provide an updated letter. Children walk along this road to the school bus and extreme weather.
Condition is not within the general plan and no additional commercial activity to take place. Traffic plan
should be required. She read from her letter submitted to the planning commission. Also presented letters
from three additional neighbors.

Speaker # 10: Citizen
Name: Sarah Bennett
Address: 64 North Silver Oak Road
Comments: Ms. Bennett said she is concerned on window of notification. Obvious impacts to water, fire
safety traffic and request this body take maximum amount of time for discussion and determine how much
of a threat this proposal is. Traffic, blocking of the road and risk of safety and incompatibility and outline
of no further commercial. Speak to right of way, Mr. Walsh seem fit to block, be cause the plat map is on
the books and right of way is identified, and the root is part of the trails to access the public lands. Echoes
Cynthia.

Speaker # 11: Citizen, Springland Water Company
Name: Jessica Kramer
Address: 4801 Skycrest Park Cove
Comments: Ms. Kramer said she supports the community council letter and concerns raised, this is not a
matter of if, but when fire starts. Two months ago, a 14-year-old boy was killed in his car from a stray bullet
from a firing range. May not use parleys to avoid traffic and will use emigration, exceeded daily trips in the
canyon. Concerns with smoking, alcohol, firepits and many unanswered questions. Joggers and bikers using
the canyon road and consider school children.

Speaker # 12: Emigration Canyon Community Council and Pinecrest Services Association
Name: Kate Miyagi
Address: Not provided
Comments: Ms. Miyagi submitted a personal letter and documentation. They have a plow, additional traffic
issue. Stated all documents listed. In 2012 governor Herbert by July 21 fires had been started, multiples

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                Page 4 of 7
fires started at shooting ranges despite. Powder mountain fire burned 800 acres. She read from
documentation. This is bound to happen, personal resident communications, and fires start every year.

Speaker # 13: Citizen
Name: Jeff Kenney
Address: 2143 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Kenney said running in opposition and submitted a folder and read from his letter.
Shuttling people doesn’t seem feasible business model, wonder about transparency. Noise echoes down the
canyon, worries about wedding events over the weekend and can hear gun shooting. The 300-foot
notification is not feasible. Environmental impact has not been outlined in the proposal and catastrophic
failure. Why in this case is there 50-100 parking stalls for small events. Red flags and contradicting
statements.

Speaker # 14: Executive Director, Save Our Canyons
Name: Carl Fisher
Address: 824 South 400 West
Comments: Mr. Fisher said he wants to commend comments. Elevate comments made, very concerned
and change the nature, ecological impacts and safety. Shared a lot of research, because of states efforts
forest service. Growing smart, more peoples lives in danger. Narrowest steepest canyons with community
inside, this is irresponsible. Urge commission to pump the brakes and allow time. Agency questions and
doesn’t see any answers. People deserve answers for the future of the area. Threats to these places as
continue to grow. Recommend provide answers to questions from community and agencies.

Speaker # 15: Citizen
Name: William and Ardell Carroll
Address: 2322 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Carroll said agreed with everything said. Noise of firearms would be disruptive. They live
at 7000 feet and can hear the gun range in Parleys. He has personally survived an avalanche above the
property, and also survived the fire in emigration from a camping spot down Killyons. Pinecrest community
doesn’t need a commercial development.

Speaker # 16: Citizen
Name: David Ream
Address: 6535 East Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Ream said from now on there’s a system to keep residence people further than 300 feet
from development. The environment effects this is the wrong place to do this. So many hazards and issues.
This is an incompatible use and express his opposition to the proposal. He’s submitting written comments.

Speaker # 17: Citizen
Name: Phil Davis
Address: 1832 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Davis said parking problem for trailheads and will parking be available for the general
public. Concern with wintertime activities and snowmobiling.

Speaker # 18: Citizen
Name: Greg White
Address: 1990 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. White said lived her for 20 years and grave concern for interruption. Proposed gun range
will destroy wildlife. Can hear the gun range from his house. Concern and represent the wildlife. Unique
eco system, watched elk out there, came across a mountain lion kill and elk from proposed gun range and

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary           Page 5 of 7
nesting eagles, quarter mile from gun range and will deter wildlife from this area and consider this an asset
to the people. Grave concern for safety and will have no control over people shooting and ranges are on
active trails and in the line of fire and ski terrain behind them.

Speaker # 19: Citizen
Name: Corey Schwabenlander
Address: 2121 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Schwabenlander said he’d like to echo Mr. Fishers concerns, inadequacy of the comments
is a big concern. Pages of concerns, request to traffic plans, bus shuttles, inconsistencies to responses, bullet
traps and allowing shotguns, a lot of questions and Mr. Walsh has a lot of work to do and there is a
responsible plan.

Speaker # 20: Citizen
Name: Robert Jordan
Address: 749 North Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Jordan said appreciates everyone’s comments. Is there a cutoff to public input.

Commissioner Tippets said based on discussion today, may continue. Mr. Jordan said requests time to
submit comments. In addition, safety of ziplines and construction. Mentioned no regular staff, considering
the different issues proposed. Focus on safety of uses and why there may not be staff. The example of public
parking and using shuttles on the main canyon road. Substantial congestion and informative to consider
historically where this has occurred. Reiterate prior to moving forward mitigating measures the applicant
put forward to address concerns, whether through analysis and he is opposed.

Speaker # 21: Citizen
Name: Margaret Armstrong
Address: 2137 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Armstrong said she has lived there for 35 years. Need for oversight. Mr. Walsh said 25
cars and neighbors have been the overseers and an ongoing problem and don’t know how to mitigate.

Speaker # 22: Citizen
Name: Linda Evans
Address: 5864 East Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Evans said sanitation is a problem, already have a creek polluted and county doesn’t
recommend letting her dog in it. Illegal parking, grass and catalytic converters start fires and people parking
in illegal places.

Speaker # 23: Citizen
Name: Georgia Badley
Address: 2125 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. Badley said she has lived here for 20 years, hooray to all her neighbors. Talked specifically
about environmental issues and doesn’t see how a commercial development is appropriate with all the
issues.

Speaker # 24: Citizen
Name: Annette MacIntyre
Address: 449 Marathon Circle
Comments: Ms. MacIntyre said she is opposed and submitted with her reasons and many have been spoken
about. Main concern is fire and it is the number one risk to her life and property. Anything making a chance
greater is the height of responsibility and echo concerns of conditions set, once granted who will watch over

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary                  Page 6 of 7
the people attending these events and travelling parleys, who assures the definition of occasionally. Will
these comments being recorded and available to share with the public and letters. Urge consider comments
in good faith and strongly oppose the development only there for personal gain

Speaker # 25: Citizen
Name: Robert Avery
Address: 155 Skycrest Lane
Comments: Mr. Avery said the proposal opposed, impossible to mitigate risk of fire and is there enough
water allocated for development then not enough water for fire.

Speaker # 26: Citizen
Name: John Porches
Address: 2238 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Porches said his experience with Mr. Walsh has never acted in good faith to illegal ponds
and personal dealings. Recommends serious oversight to development. When Mr. Walsh dumps concrete
in the stream they notify, this is going to be bigger than what he says and will do more. Let Mr. Walsh do
this, his acquisition of the property, water rights through litigation. Responds to many letters of inquiries
with bullet points and urges oversite.

Speaker # 27: Citizen
Name: Jacob representing a client Deiko Deherra
Address: Not provided
Comments: Jacob asked to present a letter from his client. 330 acres surrounding are for sale. He read a
letter.

Commissioner said the applicant has a brief opportunity to speak. Mr. Walsh said he would submit his
comments in writing.

Commissioner Tippets motioned to close the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding recording of the meeting, summary of minutes
and public comments submitted will be available, schedule a site visit of the property and a work meeting,
traffic, gun ranges, UFA, water availability analysis and septic system, Utah division of water rights
meeting on December 19th.

Motion: To continue application #30473 to the January 17, 2019 meeting to allow time to schedule a
noticed onsite tour and review all public input, UFA and SLC Health Department.
       Motion by: Commissioner Karkut
       2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                       Time Adjourned – 11:19 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – November 15, 2018 – Meeting Summary              Page 7 of 7
                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                  www.pwpds.slco.org




                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Thursday, January 17, 2019 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 24 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 20                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                   ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                 Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
         Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                  Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
          Brent Tippets            x           x
           Claire Clark                        x                                Wendy Gurr                      x             x
                                                                              Curtis Woodward                   x             x
   Andrew Wallace (Vice Chair)     x           x
                                                                               Jim Nakamura
        Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
           Jim Karkut                                    x
      Robert Pinon (Chair)         x           x
          Dale Berreth             x           x


                                                   BUSINESS MEETING

                                               Meeting began at – 8:35 a.m.
        Commissioner Tippets advised January 31st at 6:30 pm at the fire station for an open house by
        Mayor Smolka. Commissioner Clark will be stepping down from the planning commission, as she
        has been elected to the Community Council and Commissioner Tippets time has expired and will
        not seek reappointment.

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
       Election of Chair for 2019
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Pinon for Chair, Commissioner Pinon accepted.
              Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
              2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

        Election of Vice Chair for 2019
        Motion: To nominate Commissioner Wallace for Vice Chair, Commissioner Wallace accepted.
               Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
               2nd by: Commissioner Clark
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 1 of 7
    2) Approval of Minutes from the November 15, 2018 meeting.
        Motion: Continued to the next meeting.
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote:
        Commissioner Clark announced she will be stepping down and resigning from the planning
        commission and will join the public as this would be a conflict.
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                            PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                        Hearings began at – 8:40 a.m.

30473 – (Continued from 11/15/18) - John Walsh requests conditional use approval for commercial and
private recreation, including picnic area and gazebo for picnics, parties, and other gatherings, as well as two
single-lane gun ranges. Location: 2450 Pinecrest Canyon Road. Zone: FR-1 and FR-20. Planner: Curtis
Woodward

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the staff report.

Commissioner Tippets asked if recreational use clearly identifies commercial, and if the use specifically
says commercial. Mr. Woodward confirmed commercial and private recreation as one use. Commissioner
Tippets asked if they can get a clear definition on access from UFA. Mr. Woodward said they looked at it,
but didn’t hear back, but can see if they submitted anything and that’s why he went to the fire code.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said he would make an objection to James Karkut, he has a private personal conflict
of interest in this matter, regarding traffic and water issues, as well as a garage and home that are within ten
feet of the stream. His interest in the issues is much more personal than that of other Members of Emigration
Planning Commission. He (Mr. Walsh) has taken fire marshal on the property and met with him again after
the application was filed. He (fire marshal) asked if the road on the plans is the same road they looked at
on site. His main concern was for clearance for emergency vehicles on the sides, having driven the road
himself. Grateful to run with the matter, as the application has been pending for some time, it will be nice
to get direction. It is important to note they are not deciding whether to have a gazebo, he is entitled to a
gazebo. The question is whether he can use it for, commercial use, and work out the best arrangement.

Mr. Walsh showed his drone video going downhill and showed the drone video going uphill, pointing out
“turn-outs” where cars may pull off to pass one another

Commissioner Wallace asked where the house was located. Mr. Walsh said his personal residence is in lots
twenty-three and twenty-four of block eight. Important to note the question is not whether he can build a

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 2 of 7
gazebo, but whether it is for personal or recreational use. His family meaning, immediate family own 480
lots of record, 450 beyond the gate. Contrast the impact of a bus during the weekend, vs. the impact of 480
residential lots on traffic in the canyon. When the county put in the road restrictions, they acted in good
faith. Otherwise, we create a problem by making the road too narrow, then saying “you can’t do this
because the road’s too narrow.” The bottom line focusing on the different uses: Shooting in the area is
legal, but to make commercial or recreational use, conditions on that are reasonable can be put on it to
make it safe. It’s not illegal to discharge a firearm in the canyon if you are so far from the house. Mr. Walsh
said he met with the fire department, discussed capturing the bullet, and keeping the area clean of
combustibles. Conditions could be applied requiring compliance to code with necessary inspections.
Gazebo is private use; the issue is whether it can be used for commercial purposes. The storage containers,
sledding (already occurring privately), zipline would be by appointment only, least minimal impacts.
Commissioner Pinon referred to the video and asked of the road on pullouts and is it private or public and
posted. Mr. Walsh said pull outs typically allow plenty of room between road and garage to allow for use
without interfering with residential use. He submitted a map of an aerial showing the platted road parallel
to the travelled road on public land. The pullouts are primarily on public property within the platted right
of way, the travelled road stops at the gate., Judge Baldwin placed no limits on the sides of the road, just
“as wide as reasonably necessary.” Mr. Walsh submits that therefore the pull-outs on both sides are public.
There are places where there are designated signs with no parking, that was part of the analysis when put
together. Commissioner Tippets asked about recent health department review and facilities one hundred
feet from the creek. Mr. Walsh said he will do what’s appropriate, working with public health, and he
clearly believes he can be at least one hundred feet from the stream. Regarding “permanent” restroom
facilities, he proposes a temporary and contained system he can haul off each year rather than putting in
the ground (in a septic system). Commissioner Tippets said it’s up to the Health Department, but it would
affect the quantity on uses and a trailer solution would not comply with the quantity needed for a resort.
Mr. Walsh said he would submit that simply getting health department approval be one of those conditions,
rather than the planning commission naming the specific solution. Let the board of health mandate and
monitor the solution. Commissioner Wallace said outhouses would be insufficient for commercial use as an
alternative, they’re not permanent enough to withstand a strong wind, can’t control how often cleaned,
defer to the health department, use of outhouses would be insufficient. Mr. Walsh agrees with having the
health department oversee that. Commissioner Tippets said he is concerned about fires, and he doesn’t
have solutions as to mitigation of risk of fire for gun ranges, which are documented to have fire risks with
or without safety precautions. How do they anticipate not increasing the fire risk. Mr. Walsh said the current
risk is unregulated discharged firearms, which goes on today, as opposed to approval by this body with fire
department conditions to address fire safety. Have fire department confirm their conditions are complied
with. Commissioner Wallace said there is not adequate fire protection and no plan to upgrade and handle
a fire adequately and response time will be long. If a fire happened, you will have gridlock in the canyon
and residents in peril. “Legal to discharge,” may be true, and it’s strictly up to the person to behave, but
when taken to a commercial level, it’s adding a lot more risk, which has not been addressed adequately to
be approved. Mr. Walsh said the fire department officials are the experts and would have to approve the
specific conditions. Commissioner Wallace said regarding public access through the canyon, he saw ski
tracks on existing trails through the shooting ranges in the video presentation, and asked “will the trails be
blocked off?” Mr. Walsh said the map shows where the trails are as defined by the plat, and the ranges
aren’t over public property. Otherwise, one could come through and want to ski through his private
backyard. The gun range doesn’t cross over public land (either one). Commissioner Berreth said his
concern as far as gun and fire safety, at this point, there’s an occasional hunter person discharging, once
you put in a gun range you’re inviting people to come in, incidents of gun use will be greater, which is a
concern for fire. Mr. Walsh said family goes up there and shoots rather frequently, but an increase will
increase the risk. Commissioner Wallace said just having more people going up there increases the fire
risk. Noise coming from the gun range isn’t compatible with the residential area, daily sessions will drive
wildlife off from the area. Mr. Walsh stated, the gun ranges are designed to shoot away from down canyon

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                 Page 3 of 7
residents, shooting into the larger “uphill” mountain, and based on mountain terrain, feels that the noise
won’t travel as far as an open area gun range. Noise will be heard, but the board of health would be the
gate keeper. Commissioner Wallace said he can hear the rifle fire from Parley’s Canyon every day in a
separate canyon, miles away. Mr. Walsh said you can see the gun range from their home and isn’t
obstructed by the mountain. Commissioner Wallace said he’s talking about the range further down the
canyon, not the one across from the golf course, and that residents from Pinecrest would hear every shot,
which cannot be mitigated. Commissioner Wallace asked where a fire truck would turn around. Mr. Walsh
said: one, right in front of home, in front of 2348, two, at the very top below the gazebo, three, another area
over by the trailers. Instead of trying to guess, he suggests letting the fire department make the decision.
Commissioner Wallace asked if those areas would be full of cars during an event. Mr. Walsh said only on
Friday and Saturday nights would they have events with 20 or more cars, and they would not be filling up
those areas. Commissioner Pinon asked if the fire marshal asked if the road needed to be improved to
support the weight of a fire truck. Mr. Walsh said no, the clearance with foliage was all the fire marshal
discussed.

Speaker # 2: Emigration Canyon Community Council
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said her term starts on the 27th. Community Council entered a specific and detailed
letter opposing this.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Catherine Harris
Address: 696 Donner Hill Circle
Comments: Ms. Harris said already entered comments. Hijacking conversation, private conversation with
fire marshal, does not mean meets current ordinances or through process. Decision made by the county to
adopt maintenance of the road but doesn’t meet county standards. County recognizes, if there is a new venue
or variance or conditional use and road should be looked at again. Should meet 2019 code with new
commercial venue and should be up to date. Planning Commission needs to consider that. Applicant
acknowledges public right of way and gun use would impact right of way and should look to reconciliation.
Almost fire safety body, says if not when you have a fire, it’s when. Fire department is not in charge of
determining risk. Applicant seems to feel the fire department will determine if risk is ok, it’s not their job.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Tom Johnson
Address: 2326 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Johnson said 8 unidentified issues. He read from his letter submitted this morning as part
of the record. Addressed some issues Mr. Walsh brought up. A third of distance of his gate and subdivision.
The existing road coincides, that isn’t true. There isn’t a beaver dam, Mr. Walsh created a dam up there.
480 lots could be 480 homes and more traffic, not legitimate, only handful of developable lots. Width of
the road, this is private property, people’s homes all sit next to the road, to imagine save claim it’s a public
road for width, not applicable, his going up and shooting guns.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Dr. Cynthia Furse
Address: 2295 North Pinecrest Canyon
Comments: Dr. Furse said she is representation on the lower portion of the road and went over the video
going up the road. Identifying the driveways, turnouts and steepness and narrowness of the road. Double
amount of snow, and emergency services and fire. Unable to pass a car, doubling amount of homes and
traffic would be throughout the day, consider a quick flow of traffic. Mr. Walsh has parties and may have

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 4 of 7
ten to twenty cars, not 100. All future owners would be allowed to do what the conditional use permits.
Major issues for a family living in this canyon. Rarely plowed on pullout. Since decision of turnarounds,
rocks have been added and signs blocking the turnaround. 10 mph listed, just the general public in mask is
an unreasonable expectation. How deep the stream drops, with people driving up and down. Commercial
event with 4-wheel drive is zero. Mentioned pullouts is private property, driveway paved and has added
both garbage cans are not a public pullout. Don’t assume road has sufficient pullouts. All fire marshal
concerned with is bushes. All bushes along her line were pruned, likely the fire marshal came up were
pruned and on my private property, there was illegal pruning representing. Encourage everything evaluated
and don’t trust anyone but own evaluation. No source of fire protection water is sufficient. Not proposed
putting in sufficient water tank, increased fire risk and insufficient fire protection and fire access.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Vides Backman
Address: unable to identify
Comments: Mr. Backman said the planning commission takes fire seriously, increased risk, three fires in
Idaho and two in Utah directly related to target shooting and climate change. Governor declared state of
emergency, drought worsens wildfire conditions. Estimated over fifty percent increase in 2018, pipeline
along main canyon, if wildfire gets to that point emigration canyon is toast, winds spread flames of wildfire.
Studies indicated ground water mining, has proven fire increase, significant role in California wildfire,
firetrucks not there in five minutes and not easily reached. Not location for development. Conditional use
standards shall not pose serious threat to residents and property and should be denied. Noise pollution, 140
to 190 decibels. Health department standards implementing sound cannot exceed 70 decibels, this should
be denied. Road access should be twenty feet wide. In 1983 settlement between county and residents to
obtain rural mountain setting, county considered mitigating measures with shuttle services. Narrow road is
rural mountain setting. If you change the nature of area, you would have to reconsider access to the roads.
Increased in traffic and he has counted cars and four to twenty per day, weddings up to twenty-five cars,
only for guests. Conditional use standards and shall not pose traffic hazards, doesn’t feel the development
complies and should be denied.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Sarah Bennett
Address: 64 North Silver Oak Road
Comments: Ms. Bennett said she was involved in the review of general plan and mayors blue ribbon
commission to review FCOZ. At no time did they ever conceive a commercial development in the upper
regions of the canyon. Maintain public access and public recreation and trails, open space. Specifically
considered restriction of commercial development. Respect owner rights, commercial development is far
outside of ever conceived of planning reviews of FCOZ. Fire concerns, lack of water, impacts to wildlife
and public lands. Given applicants track record intentionally discourage public access, cannot or do not
approve.

Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Matt Velinder
Address: 5222 Emigration Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Velinder said there are three choices, numerous things in direct contact with general plan.
Private mountain feel in the canyon. Gun use, noise, fire risk. He’s unable to mitigate within his proposal
and deny on that basis. Toilets and water issues not mitigated. Water change applications with Utah state
engineer, for operation of wells, would be dependent on those applications approval. Highlights the facts
and telling things not any other resident shows support. Strong opposition and haven’t had ample
notifications of the meetings and doing grass roots efforts. Bad faith arguments, these aren’t pullouts, they
are private driveways.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                Page 5 of 7
Speaker # 9: Citizen
Name: Linda Evans
Address: 5864 East Emigration
Comments: Ms. Evans said her husband went to the water rights meeting and didn’t get an answer. Gazebo,
no permit and how many feet from the stream. He already violated the law, rocks and signs, also violated
our rules. Not a good standard to give a permit.

Speaker # 10: Citizen
Name: Melinda McIlwaine
Address: 2148 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Ms. McIlwaine said if she put rocks on boundaries of her property, you wouldn’t be able to
drive up past her house, 400 square feet of her property has been procured for that road and called task
commission and if she was paying taxes, many pullouts are on private property. Has a map for additional
parking on emigration canyon road and all dirt pullouts, you never see many cars in any of those places and
precreation of public property of private use. Did well application, provide him with additional water, real
water issues in holding capacity. Surprised you can shoot on your property when there is a hunting
restriction. Wouldn’t appreciate the noise. Private road is subject to prescript use and dirt road has been
used by the public extensively, before Mr. Walsh. Tom Johnson built illegal ponds and saying anything
about Mr. Karkut ten feet from creek and he’s impaired the flow of the creek with the ponds. Read a portion
of letter sent to the tribune. Plow fell in the creek and had to remove part of the bank to get a vehicle up,
behind the vehicle and replaced with big rocks. This should not move forward.

Speaker # 11: Citizen
Name: Ben Doblin
Address: 2230 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Doblin said there will be increased traffic up the canyon, narrowest stretch of road in front
of his house one way. Cars meet head to head, they pull into the nearest driveway, his has received three
direct hits to his garage door and would be increased to fill up Mr. Walsh parking spaces. It’s illegal to
discharge firearm on southern side of ridge. Wildlife found refuge and why we enjoy living there and driven
from the property and further east. Give wildlife a break. This is inappropriate, and a man wants to make
something happen and entirely reasonable and encourage to deny outright. If passes will be back here
looking for a zoning change and his house has a huge operation as a Pinecrest Inn. No public support.

Speaker # 12: Citizen
Name: Greg White
Address: 1990 North Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. White said sewage is a big issue with the quantity, especially with proximity of his venues
to the creek, huge issue. Removing outhouses and putting them in is not a solution. Mr. Walsh care for the
creek over the last decade has extracted fill on the road, that is his road, with literally hundreds of dump
truck roads and claims would never want to endanger the creek and has dumped cement into the creek.
SWPPP is aware and hasn’t made any criteria. Statement is false in relationship to his care of the creek.
Example of how he does projects and won’t budge, permit should have been applied for his gazebo, and
dam constructions. Containment done, except cutting diversions across his road. Erosion factor is
unprecedented no fish left in Pinecrest creek, has broadened, no depth. Fill brought in, brought nauseous
weeds and seeds. County issued an extreme care guide. Damage can be pointed at the Walsh project, look
at the road, creek runs amuck. Sure, of what he says in relationship to this. Eye sore for Pinecrest with no
sight on view what this will become. Condition of creek due to run off, this is unacceptable, and points need
to be taken into consideration for future decisions. What is this building going to be, is it a resident or foot
in the door for commercial property.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                  Page 6 of 7
Speaker # 13: Applicant
Name: John Walsh
Address: 2348 Pinecrest Canyon Road
Comments: Mr. Walsh said there are water rights, provide documents. Stop work order on gazebo and now
lifted. Maps submitted on pullouts and his project doesn’t change state engineer, no people going
simultaneously. Solution is fire and health cover what need covered.

Speaker # 14: Citizen
Name: Mike Bogart
Address: 6324 East Lefthand Fork Lane
Comments: Mr. Bogart said he has lived her for 34 years. Mr. Walsh is negligent.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding public easement, platted right-of-way, paved
surface within thirty-three feet, vacated trails, preliminary approval, definition of gun use, driveway, water,
fire hazards and firetrucks, traffic issues.

Motion: To deny conditional use application #30473 for commercial and recreational use, where the
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use could not substantially be mitigated by the proposal or
the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
        Motion by: Commissioner Tippets
        2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 10:59 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 17, 2019 – Meeting Summary                 Page 7 of 7
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                 www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                   EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                Thursday, June 13, 2019 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length:                                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
         Brent Tippets                                  x
          Jacob Steed                                   x                      Wendy Gurr                                    x
                                                                             Curtis Woodward
       Andrew Wallace                         x
                                                                             Daniel Quintanilla                              x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
           Jim Karkut                         x
         Robert Pinon                         x
         Dale Berreth                                   x


                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 8:46 a.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the November 15, 2018 meeting.
        Motion:
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote:
        Approval of Minutes from the January 17, 2019 meeting.
        Motion:
              Motion by:
              2nd by:
              Vote:


        Commissioner Pinon advised the commission that the Walsh appeal was denied and their motion
        was maintained.
    2) General Plan Discussion


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – June 13, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                    Page 1 of 2
        Mr. Quintanilla provided a powerpoint presentation to the planning commission.


        Commissioner Karkut asked how they will treat the existing plan, biggest component of the trails
        plan and is there a new plan there. Mr. Quintanilla said up to the commission and could focus on
        the 1999 or the 2012 plan and is a community consensus. Trails effects the Elk population and
        appropriate in one area and not the other.
    3) Confirm July 11, 2019 meeting attendance
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 9:17 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – June 13, 2019 – Meeting Summary              Page 2 of 2
