                       Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
                              Staff/Public Meeting Agenda
                                                September 24, 2020
                                                     7:00 PM

                                              Virtual Meeting Via Zoom

                                      https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84915795787

                                      The Public May Attend Meetings
                         The Meeting May Be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute

Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council,
hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial
risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

      The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert stage for the COVID-19
pandemic; and

      The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does not have sufficient space in
the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing to keep people safe from infection.

                                           −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Upon request with three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative formats, etc.).
For assistance, please call 385-468-7130 – TTY 711.

                           The Public is Invited and Welcome to Attend the Staff Meeting


                                                  STAFF MEETING


        1.      Agenda Items (Discussion)


        2.      Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan Update (Discussion) – Kate Davies, Planner,
                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

        3.      Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) Proposed Legislation to Modify
                Property Tax Rates (Informational/Discussion)

        4.      CARES Act Funding (Discussion)
       5.    COVID-19 Update (Discussion)

       6.    Hiring of New Legal Counsel (Discussion)

       7.    Road Paving Update (Discussion)


                                              PUBLIC MEETING

       1.    Welcome and Determine Quorum:

             Joe Smolka, Mayor
             Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
             David Brems, Council Member
             Gary Bowen, Council Member
             Catherine Harris, Council Member

       2.    Pledge of Allegiance

       3.    Recognize Visiting Officials

       4.    Public Hearing:      None

7:55   5.    Community Input:

             5.1   Citizen Comment:

            (Individuals wishing to comment must access the meeting using the Zoom.com link above by the
            beginning of the “Citizen Comment” period. If an individual is unable to attend the meeting, they may
            email their comments to nwatt@slco.org to have them read into the record.)

8:15         5.2   Emigration Canyon Community Council – Bill Toby, Chair

8:20         5.3   Unified Police Department – Office Jake Elsasser

8:25         5.4   Unified Fire Authority – Captain Michael Conn

       6.    Council Business:

8:30         6.1   Ordinance No. 20-09-01: Emigration Canyon               Metro   Township     Flood   Damage
                   Prevention Ordinance (Motion/Discussion)

8:40         6.2   Ordinance No. 20-09-01: CenturyLink Communications, LLC Franchise Agreement
                   (Motion/Discussion)

8:50         6.3   Resolution No. 20-09-01: Ratification to Approve an Interlocal Agreement as an
                   Urban County in the Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Solutions
                   Grant, and the Home Investment Partnership (Motion/Discussion) – Mayor Smolka

9:00         6.4   Resolution No. 20-09-02:      Emigration Canyon Metro Township Emergency Operation
                   Plan (Motion/Discussion)

9:10         6.5   CARES Act Funding (Motion/Discussion) – Mayor Smolka

9:20         6.4   Legal Issues (Motion/Discussion) – David Church
9:25          6.5   Budget Items:

                    (a)    Approval of Expenditures (Motion/Discussion)
                    (b)    Other Budget Items (Motion/Discussion)

9:35          6.6   Approval of Minutes:

                    (a)    August 27, 2020

        7.    Council Member Reports:

9:40          7.1   Council Member Brems

                    (a)    Unified Police Department & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
                    (b)    Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission

9:45          7.2   Council Member Bowen

                    (a)    Unified Fire Authority & Unified Fire Service Area
                    (b)    Salt Lake County Animal Services Advisory Board

9:50          7.3   Council Member Harris

                    (a)    Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
                    (b)    Watershed Plan

9:55          7.4   Deputy Mayor Hawkes

                    (a)    Website
                    (b)    CodeRED

10:00         7.5   Mayor Smolka

                    (a)    Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

        8.    Other Announcements:

        9.    Closed Session per Utah Code §52-4-205

        10.   Future Metro Township Council Agenda Items:

              10.1 Noise Ordinance

              10.2 Night Sky Ordinance

        11.   Motion to Adjourn Meeting
Topic: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meeting
Time: Sep 24, 2020 07:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

Join Zoom Meeting
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84915795787

Meeting ID: 849 1579 5787
One tap mobile
+16699009128,,84915795787# US (San Jose)
+12532158782,,84915795787# US (Tacoma)

Dial by your location
     +1 669 900 9128 US (San Jose)
     +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma)
     +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston)
     +1 646 558 8656 US (New York)
     +1 301 715 8592 US (Germantown)
     +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago)
Meeting ID: 849 1579 5787
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/keDwZZ7ZT6
 SALT LAKE VALLEY LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICE AREA




                  3365 SOUTH 900 WEST, SALT LAKE, UT 84119  (385) 468-9671 




    PROPOSED MODIFICATION TO SECTION 17B-1-1002 (1) of the UTAH CODE


Section 17B-1-1002 (1) of the Utah Code states that:

. . . The rate at which a local district levies a property tax for district operation and maintenance
expenses on the taxable value of property within the district may not exceed . . . .0023, for a
service area that . . . is located in a county of the first or second class; and provides fire
protection, paramedic, and emergency services; or . . . provides law enforcement services . . . .

The certified tax rate for SLVLESA is presently at .002254. Because of the statutory tax rate cap
of .0023, SLVLESA will never be able to increase its budgeted revenues above 2% in the future
even if its members determine that such increase is needed for its communities. (Given the
impact of changes in centrally assessed valuation, SLVLESA probably will never be able to
increase budgeted revenue in the future by any percentage). Changing the statutory tax rate cap is
not enacting a property tax increase. Rather, changing the statutory tax rate maximum
recognizes that SLVLESA member governing bodies know what is best for their communities.
They should be entrusted with the responsibility to determine the law enforcement needs of their
communities even if it means, at times, deciding that budgeted revenues must be increased.
Further, the certified tax rate can increase by decisions of the Utah Tax Commission to reduce
centrally assessed valuation, without SLVLESA’s knowledge or input, as happened early this
year when it reduced the valuation for Kennecott by $650 million. A reduction in centrally
assessed valuation is beyond the control of SLVLESA and its members.

The statutory tax rate maximum for districts providing law enforcement services to its members
has not been addressed since 2006. If the statutory tax rate cap is not changed, SLVLESA
members, particularly its Township members, will need to diminish the level of law enforcement
services to its communities since property tax through SLVLESA is their only source of revenue.
They are, however, entitled to the same level of law enforcement services as their neighboring
communities. Further, if the statutory tax rate cap is not changed, SLVLESA will not be able to
sustain itself.
History of the Statutory Tax Rate Cap.

In 2006, the newly formed Unified Fire Services Area (UFSA), a local district that funds fire
services for its members, worked with the Utah Legislature to establish a statutory tax rate
maximum specifically for fire service districts. In setting the maximum tax rate, the Legislature
considered the existing revenue needs of the UFSA, the UFSA projected revenue needs, the
capital needs of the UFSA and the frequent fluctuations of centrally assessed valuation. Since
the Unified Fire Authority (UFA), which provides the fire services to UFSA members, has a 12-
step wage scale for its merit employees, the maximum rate was based on a 12-year projection.
The UFSA originally proposed to the Legislature a maximum tax rate of .0030. Ultimately, the
Legislature passed a .0023 maximum tax rate for fire service districts.

SLVLESA was formed in 2009. Initially, SLVLESA implemented a fee-for-services to generate
revenue to fund law enforcement services for its members. The Legislature subsequently
prohibited the fee-based funding and limited SLVLESA’s source of revenue to property taxes.
The Legislature included law enforcement services under the same provision as fire services
subject to the same maximum tax rate. The maximum tax rate remained unchanged. In 2012,
SLVLESA approved its first tax levy at .001999.

Modifying the Statutory Cap is not increasing property taxes.

Based on existing statutory tax rate cap, SLVLESA is not able to increase budgeted revenues in
the future even if its members determine that there is a need to do so. SLVLESA understands
that the State wants to set parameters for increases in tax rates. Changing the parameters does not
mean that the local governing bodies will recklessly increase property taxes. Rather, before a
property tax is implemented, Utah law provides a strict truth-in taxation process that must be
followed which includes enhanced public notice and opportunity for public input. Further, a
property tax increase cannot be implemented unless either all the SLVLESA member Councils
approve or the increase is approved by majority of the member Councils and the Salt Lake
County Council, by two-thirds vote. (See sections 17B-2a-903, 17B-1-1003, 59-2-919 of the
Utah Code).

The local governing bodies should be entrusted to make decisions for their communities
regarding their law enforcement needs within reasonable parameters set by the State.

Each SLVLESA member is governed by a duly elected mayor and council. They are the
government closest to the people of their community. They understand, better than any other
governmental entity, the law enforcement needs of their community. They are best to decide the
quality and manner of law enforcement their community should have. They should be able to
decide whether they are prepared to pay more for compensation of the police officers assigned to
their community even if it means approving, through the truth-in-taxation process, an increase in
property taxes. They should be able to decide if they want more assigned police officers in their
community for their growing population even if it means approving, through the truth-in-taxation
process, a property tax increase.

Further Township members do not have the authority under the law to levy property taxes. They
have no other source of revenue to fund law enforcement except through SLVLESA. If the
statutory cap is not changed, the Townships have no ability to obtain future additional revenue to
fund law enforcement services in their communities. This means in the future, if the statutory
tax rate cap is not changed, they may have no choice but to reduce police services to its
community. This should not be the case. Townships should have the same quality of law
enforcement services provided to other communities. Further, it is questionable whether
SLVLESA would survive leaving the Townships vulnerable.

SLVLESA has no option but to pursue an increase in the statutory cap.

As stated, property tax revenue is the only way SLVLESA funds the law enforcement needs of
its member communities. Property tax revenue levied by SLVLESA is the only source of
revenue to fund law enforcement services for Townships. Given the existing market, it may be
necessary to increase police officer compensation in order to retain and recruit police officers.
Since approximately 85% of the costs of law enforcement is personnel, increases in police
officer compensation will increase law enforcement costs in the future to SLVLESA and its
members. At minimum, the 2.75% annual merit increases under the 12-step wage scale would be
paid. Further, the wide range of changes in centrally assessed valuations could increase the
certified tax rate beyond the control of SLVLESA and its members.

The proposed modification is being analyzed by an independent consultant.

SLVLESA has retained Econowest, an independent consultant, to analyze the historical data and
other factors to determine what should be proposed as a modification to the existing statutory tax
rate maximum. The consultant will use the same assumptions relied on in 2006 such as existing
revenue, future projected revenue needs and anticipated fluctuations in centrally assessed
valuations. He will do a 12-year projection since the UPD merit employees are subject to a 12-
step wage scale with annual increases which is the same assumption relied on by the Legislature
in 2006 when it set the maximum tax rate at .0023. He will use other factors as he deems
pertinent. This analysis will be provided by separate communication.

Conclusion.

The statutory tax rate cap on districts that provide law enforcement services was established 14
years ago. The statutory cap needs to be revisited. SLVLESA is presently within 2% of the
statutory cap. If it does not have the opportunity to increase its budgeted revenues in the future,
law enforcement services to the SLVLESA members, particularly the Townships, may be
significantly reduced making public safety in those communities vulnerable. They are, however,
entitled to the same level of law enforcement services as provided to all other communities. The
local mayors and councils should have the ability to make the decisions of what is best for their
communities and, if they deem necessary, to approve increases in property taxes through the
truth-in-taxation process.
                          Emigration Canyon Monthly Report for August 2020
                                Calls for Service: 59             Initial Reports: 22
                                   Citations: 62             Issued: 7 (keepers)
08-01-20       2020-89305              Conservation-Free Text                 1156 N Killyons CYN
Abandoned couch, chairs & folding table was found near the trail in between Pinecrest and Killyons Canyon. It
was cleaned up by residents before the forest service was able to clean it up.
08-02-20       2020-89958              Traffic Accident/No Reportable         171 N Gravelly LN
Three car non reportable accident, minor damage.
08-03-20       2020-90644              Suspicious Activity                    370 S Got Teeth LN
The complainant observed an occupied black sedan on the private road, he asked to leave and followed them
to the main road. The area was checked, and the vehicle was gone.
08-05-20       2020-91328              Fraud                                  907 N Pinecrest CYN RD
The complainant had several items listed on KSL Classifieds for sale, the suspect agreed to buy them and sent
two checks well over the amount requested. The complainant believed it to be fraudulent and contact the
police. This case is still being actively investigated.
08-05-20       2020-91555              911 Hang Up                            467 N Emigration CYN RD
911 Hang up, area was checked by officer, nothing was found.
08-09-20       2020-93286              Burg Alarm / False                     4180 E Emigration CYN RD
False burglar alarm, door & window contact issues.
08-11-20       2020-94351              Traffic Accident                       5337 E Emigration CYN RD
Single car accident, vehicle struck the guardrail, no injuries.
08-12-20       2020-95169              Criminal Trespass                      3707 E Emigration CYN RD
This call came in as a burglary in progress. The complainant advised her husband was chasing someone that
was trying to break into their home. Upon arrival officers found a 49-year-old male sitting on the side of the
road with the complainant’s husband. The male party was taken into custody by the officer, mirandized &
agreed to talk. He apparently injured himself while climbing over a fenced near Hogle Zoo. When he got to
the house listed above, he took a drink from the hose because he was thirsty. The suspect ended up getting
released & transported to the hospital by Unified Fire Authority. The complainant and her husband didn’t
want to pursue charges.
08-14-20       2020-96197              Watershed / Camping                    6850 E Emigration CYN RD
The involved male party was found sleeping in his vehicle in the restricted watershed area by Little Mountain.
He had negative wants and was warned.
08-17-20       2020-97434             Burg Alarm / False                   5820 E Emigration CYN RD
Interior motion burglar alarm, residence was secure and there were no signs of forced entry.


08-17-20       2020-97639             Found Property                       1001 N Pinecrest CYN RD
The complainant found a driver’s license and credit card on the Killyons Trail, I was able to track down the
owner and get it back to her.
08-19-20       2020-98277             Suspicious Activity                  1232 N Pinecrest CYN RD
The complainant reported a suspicious vehicle parked on the roadway near the address listed. It was found to
be the neighbor’s vehicle & he was just parking it there while his septic was getting pumped.
08-20-20       2020-98955             COP Citizen Contact                  6320 E Emigration CYN RD
I deployed the VMS trailer at this location.
08-23-20       2020-100237            Watershed / Camping                  6500 E Emigration CYN RD
The involved party parked his truck and trailer in the restricted watershed area and was planning on camping
there overnight. He was unaware that this area is restricted, he was warned and released.
08-23-20       2020-100490            Traffic Accident                     4378 E Emigration CYN RD
Two car traffic accident, no injuries reported.
08-24-20       2020-100913            Vehicle Burglary                     4132 E Emigration CYN RD
The victim’s vehicle was left unlocked and items were taken from inside the vehicle, no suspect information.
08-24-20       2020-100966            Transient Problem                    4160 E Emigration CYN RD
I noticed a homeless male hanging around Ruth’s Diner, he didn’t know where he was at and had been
dropped of there by a friend. He was transported to the mouth of the canyon and trespassed from Ruth’s
Diner.
08-27-20       2020-102264            COP Citizen Contact                  5080 E Emigration CYN RD
I deployed the VMS trailer at this location.
08-28-20       2020-103035            Traffic / Free Text                  5025 E Emigration CYN RD
The complainant advised of cyclist in the canyon, the officer checked the canyon and turned around six
bicyclists. One was a resident.
08-29-20       2020-103315            Citizen Assist                       5446 E Emigration CYN RD
The same complainant as above advised of cyclist in the canyon, the officer checked the canyon and turned
around three bicyclists.
                  EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

ORDINANCE NO. 20-09-01,                                                      September 24, 2020

A ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
REGULATIONS, FLOOD PLAIN MAP AND PERMIT PROGRAM FOR PURPOSES
OF ENABLING RESIDENTS OF THE TOWNSHIP TO PARTICIPATE IN CERTAIN
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE OPPROTUNITIES

                                          ORDINANCE

      NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:

I.  THE FOLLOWING IS HEREBY ADOPTED AS THE EMGRATION CANYON
METRO TOWNSHIP FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

ARTICLE I

STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS

SECTION A. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code 10-3-701, 10-8-84 and 10-9a-102 delegated
the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood
losses. Therefore, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council of Emigration Canyon Metro
Township, Utah, does ordain as follows:

Emigration Canyon Metro Township elects to comply with the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Emigration Canyon
Metro Township’s community officials have elected to join the program, participate, and enforce
this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The
NFIP, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of Emigration Canyon Metro
Township having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management
measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, Emigration Canyon Metro
Township may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not
identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that there is
an inherent risk of flooding in such areas.

SECTION B. FINDINGS OF FACT
(1) The flood hazard areas of Emigration Canyon Metro Township are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(2) These flood loses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains which
cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by
uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.

SECTION C. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed to:
1. Protect human life and health;
2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
undertaken at the expense of the general public;
4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood
prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and
7. Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.

SECTION D. METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES
In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following methods:
    1. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood,
       or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
    2. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
       protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
    3. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
       barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
    4. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood
       damage;
    5. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
       floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.

ARTICLE 2

DEFINITIONS
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted to
give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its’ most
reasonable application.

Area of future-conditions flood hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-
percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood based on future-conditions hydrology.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

Area of special flood-related erosion hazard is the land within a community which is most
likely to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E
on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-
related erosion hazard area; in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further
refined.

Area of special flood hazard is the land in the flood plain within a community subject to a 1
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A
on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the flood insurance rate map, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99,
AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of
these regulations, the term “special flood hazard area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
“area of special flood hazard”.

Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.

Base Flood Elevation (BFE) – Is the water surface elevation of the one (1) percent annual
chance flood. The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of
the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas.

Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
sides.

Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is
intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces,
without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system.

Building--see structure.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision means FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would,
upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus
result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood
Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area. The letter does not revise an effective map; it
indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.

Development means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but
not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation
or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
Erosion means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is not per se
covered under the Program.

Existing construction means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the
“start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. “Existing construction” may also be referred to as
“existing structures.”

Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

Existing structures--see existing construction.

Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

Flood or Flooding means:
(a) A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land
areas from:
(1) The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
(2) The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
(3) Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as defined in paragraph
(a)(2) of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the
path of the current.
(b) The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result
of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.

Flood elevation determination means a determination by the Administrator of the water surface
elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent or greater chance of
occurrence in any given year.

Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the
Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
Flood Insurance Study or Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation and
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion hazards.

Flood plain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source (see definition of “flooding”).

Flood proofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

Floodway--see regulatory floodway.

Floodway encroachment lines mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on Federal, State
and local flood plain maps.

Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of
flood plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that
could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and
floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.

Functionally dependent use means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.

Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

Historic Structure means any structure that is:
(a) Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting
the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
(b) Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the
Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
(c) Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation
programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
(d) Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
preservation programs that have been certified either:
(1) By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
(2) Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Letter of Map Amendment means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective map. A
LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area and are
usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, but
is actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.

Letter of Map Revision means FEMA's modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map,
or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a
flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area.


Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill means FEMA’s modification of the Special Flood Hazard
Area shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map based on the placement of fill outside the existing
regulatory floodway.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision means FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would,
upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus
result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood
Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area. The letter does not revise an effective map; it
indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.

Levee means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as
to provide protection from temporary flooding.

Levee System means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
in accordance with sound engineering practices.

Lowest Floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
Provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance.

Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached
to the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational
vehicle”.

Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided
into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

Map means the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
for a community issued by the Agency.
Mean sea level means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.

New construction means, for the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, new construction means structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management
regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.

New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes
are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a) Built on a single chassis;
(b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(d) Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

Regulatory floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Special flood hazard area: see “area of special flood hazard”.

Special hazard area means an area having special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or flood-
related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, AR,
AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, or E.

Start of Construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the
Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration
of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.

Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including a
gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
(1) A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, that is affixed to a
permanent site;
(2) A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a structure:
built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and affixed to a
permanent foundation); or
(3) A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that
is regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws.
For the latter purpose, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other
similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage
tank.

Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value
of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes
structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
(1) Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or
(2) Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a “historic structure.”

Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
regulation.

Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sec.
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such
time as that documentation is provided.
Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum
(NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine areas.

ARTICLE III

GENERAL PROVISIONS

SECTION A. LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES
The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within the
jurisdiction of Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

SECTION B. BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for
Emigration Canyon Metro Township," dated __________________, with
                                              (date maps will become effective)

accompanying FIRMs, and any revisions thereto are hereby automatically adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this ordinance.

SECTION C. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
of this ordinance.

SECTION D. COMPLIANCE
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full
compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.

SECTION E. ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants,
or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement, covenant,
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.

SECTION F. INTERPRETATION
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:
1. considered as minimum requirements;
2. liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
3. deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.

SECTION G. WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions greater
floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not
create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.

SECTION H. SEVERABILITY
If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.

ARTICLE IV
ADMINISTRATION

SECTION A. DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
The Engineer assigned to do the Township work by the Greater Salt Lake County Municipal
Services District is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement
the provisions of this ordinance and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.

SECTION B. DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
1. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this
ordinance.
2. Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site, including the
placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.
3. Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption of this
ordinance.
4. Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior
approval is required.
5. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
6. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Agency prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
watercourse is maintained.
8. When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance, the Floodplain
Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the
provisions of this ordinance.
9. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator must
require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
10. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH,
on the community's FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by more
than one foot, provided that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through
FEMA (Conditional Letter of Map Revision).

SECTION C. PERMIT PROCEDURES
Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator on
forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.

Additionally, the following information is required:
1. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
and substantially improved structures;
2. Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure shall be
floodproofed;
3. A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the nonresidential
floodproofed structure shall meet the flood proofing criteria of Article V, Section B;
4. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
5. Maintain a record of all such information.

Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be based on
all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following relevant factors:
     1. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
     2. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect
         of such damage on the individual owner;
     3. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
     4. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
     5. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
         vehicles;
     6. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including
         maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as
         sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
     7. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the flood
         waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
     8. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
     9. The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for
         the proposed use;
     10. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.
SECTION D. VARIANCE PROCEDURES
The appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render judgment on requests
for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.
    1. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal such
        decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
    2. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal
        and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the State
        Office of Emergency Management upon issuing a variance.
    3. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
        on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
        structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in
        Section C of this Article have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
        one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
    4. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this ordinance, the
        Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
        necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this ordinance.
    5. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
        levels during the base flood discharge would result.
    6. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
        determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
        continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
        to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
    7. Prerequisites for granting variances:
        a) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
            necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
        b) Variances shall only be issued upon:
                1) showing a good and sufficient cause;
                2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
                hardship to the applicant, and
                3) a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
                heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
                nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
                local laws or ordinances.
        c) Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the
        structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below the base flood
        elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased
        risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
    8. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial
        improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
        dependent use provided that:
        a) the criteria outlined in Article 4, Section D(1)-(9) are met, and
        b) the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
            damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.

ARTICLE V
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION

SECTION A. GENERAL STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for all new
construction and substantial improvements:
1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and
practices that minimize flood damage;
3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials resistant
to flood damage;
4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the system;
6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination
from them during flooding.

SECTION B. SPECIFIC STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided the
following provisions are required:

1. Residential Construction - new construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to one foot above the base
flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this ordinance are satisfied.

2. Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to one foot above the base flood level or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and
methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this
subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
3. Enclosures - new construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
        a) A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
        every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
        b) The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.
        c) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices
        provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

4. Manufactured Homes -
      a) Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's
      FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
      damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
      anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
      include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
      requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring requirements for
      resisting wind forces.
      b) Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
      Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i) outside of a
      manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or
      subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
      or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured
      home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent
      foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above
      the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
      system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      c) In A-1-30, AH, and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to be placed or
      substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be elevated so that the
      lowest floor is at or above the Base Flood Elevation; OR the chassis is supported by
      reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in height above grade and securely anchored.

5. Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones
A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
a) be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
b) be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
c) meet the permit requirements of Article IV, Section C, and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for "manufactured homes" of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.

SECTION C. STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS
1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this ordinance.
2. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit requirements of this ordinance.
3. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
development including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is
greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is lesser.
4. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
5. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.

SECTION E. FLOODWAYS
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in Article III, are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and
erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:

   1. Designate a regulatory floodway which will not increase the Base Flood level more than
      1 foot.
   2. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements
      and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway unless it has been
      demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
      standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
      increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood
      discharge.
   3. All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood
      hazard reduction provisions of Article V in this ordinance.
   4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood
      Insurance Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted
      regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided
      that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through
      FEMA.

SECTION F. PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered
without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
Violation of the provisions of this ordinance by failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions)
shall constitute a class C misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $750
or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
CERTIFICATION
It is hereby found and declared by Emigration Canyon Metro Township that
severe flooding has occurred in the past within its jurisdiction and will certainly occur within the
future; that flooding is likely to result in infliction of serious personal injury or death, and is
likely to result in substantial injury or destruction of property within its jurisdiction; in order to
effectively comply with minimum standards for coverage under the National Flood Insurance
Program; and in order to effectively remedy the situation described herein, it is necessary that
this ordinance become effective immediately.

Therefore, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this ordinance, being necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage and approval.


II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code
10-3-711.

III. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not
already so done and place these ordinance provisions in the appropriate section of the
published Township Code with conforming chapter, part, and section numbers as
appropriate..

IV. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.

      APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this 24th day of September, 2020.



                                                       MAYOR

                                                       ________________________
ATTEST:                                                Joe Smolka

________________________Clerk

                                               Voting:
                                               Council Member Harris           ____
                                               Council Member Smolka           ____
                                               Council Member Hawkes           ____
                                               Council Member Brems            ____
                                               Council Member Bowen            ____
ORDINANCE NO. 20-09-02                                                  DATE: September 24, 2020


AN ORDINANCE GRANTING TO CENTURYLINK COMMUNICATIONS, LLC A
FRANCHISE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM IN EMIGRATON CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, SALT
LAKE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH.

       CenturyLink Communications, LLC (the “Company”) desires to construct, maintain, and

operate a telecommunications system within the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (Township);

and

       The Township Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the

Township to grant a franchise to the Company to use the roads and streets within the Township for

such purpose;

       NOW, THEREFORE, the Township Council ordains as follows:

       I.       Grant of Franchise. The Township grants to the Company a nonexclusive franchise

to construct, maintain, and operate in the present and future roads, streets, alleys, highways, and other

public rights-of-way within Township limits, including any property annexed or otherwise acquired

by the Township after the effective date of this Franchise, a system for furnishing

telecommunications services to the Township and its inhabitants on the terms and conditions

contained in the attached Agreement found as Exhibit A hereto, on condition of the acceptance of the

Agreement by the Company of the Agreement on the terms and conditions substantially contained in

Exhibit A hereto.

       II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code

10-3-711.

       III. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already

so done and place these ordinance provisions in the appropriate section of the published Township

                                                  1
Code with conforming chapter, part, and section numbers as appropriate..

       IV. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a

certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.


       APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake County,

Utah, this 24th day of September, 2020.




                                                       MAYOR

                                                       ________________________
ATTEST:                                                Joe Smolka

________________________Clerk

                                               Voting:
                                               Council Member Harris          ____
                                               Council Member Smolka          ____
                                               Council Member Hawkes          ____
                                               Council Member Brems           ____
                                               Council Member Bowen           ____




                                                  2
                                             EXHIBIT A


                                    FRANCHISE AGREEMENT

       THIS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”), dated as of the Effective Date
(defined below), by and between EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, a Utah
municipal corporation (the “Township”), and CenturyLink Communications, LLC (the
“Company”).

                                             RECITALS

        A.      The Company desires a non-exclusive franchise to provide telecommunications,
Internet and other related services to residents, businesses, and other customers within the
boundaries of Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Utah, and to utilize public rights-of-way
controlled by the Township for such purpose.

        B.      The Township considers it to be in the best interests of the Township, and in
furtherance of the health, safety, and welfare of the public, to grant such franchise to the Company,
and in connection therewith desires to authorize the use of public rights-of-way controlled by the
Township in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and all applicable Township
ordinances and state and federal law, including, without limitation, the Federal Telecommunications
Act of 1996 (the “Telecommunications Act”).

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable
consideration and, further, in contemplation of subsequent approval by legislative action of the
Township Council as hereinafter provided, the parties mutually agree as follows.

                                         ARTICLE I
                                    FRANCHISE ORDINANCE

       1.1 Ordinance. The Township Council has adopted a franchise ordinance entitled
CenturyLink Communications, LLC Telecommunications Franchise Ordinance (the “Ordinance”),
approving the execution of this Agreement. Execution of this Agreement constitutes the unqualified
acceptance of the Ordinance by the Company. Such Ordinance is incorporated herein by reference,
and made an integral part of this Agreement.

        1.2 Franchise Description. The Ordinance confers upon the Company, and its successors and
assigns, the right, privilege, and franchise (the “Franchise”), to construct, maintain and operate in,
under, along, over, across, and through portions of the Right-of-Way (as defined in Section 3.1
hereof), facilities consisting of telecommunication lines and cables (including, without limitation,
fiber-optic and copper lines and cables), together with all necessary and desirable appurtenances
(including without limitation underground and above ground conduits and structures, poles, towers,
wire and cable) (collectively the “Company Facilities”). Upon the annexation of any territory to the
Township, all rights hereby granted, and the Franchise, shall automatically extend to the territory so
annexed, to the extent the Township has authority to so extend the Franchise. All facilities owned,
                                                   3
maintained, or operated by the Company located within, under, or over public rights-of-way of the
territory so annexed shall thereafter be subject to all terms hereof. The Company Facilities may be
used by the Company (and others, as provided herein), for the purpose of providing any of the
services contemplated to be provided by telecommunications providers under the
Telecommunications Act, and involving any switched or other one-way or two-way transmission of
voice or data, including but not necessarily limited to (i) services interconnecting interexchange
carriers for the purpose of any transmission of voice or data; (ii) services connecting interexchange
carriers or competitive access carriers to local exchange providers for the purpose of any transmission
of voice or data; (iii) services connecting interexchange carriers to any entity, other than another
interexchange carrier or the local exchange provider for the purpose of any transmission of voice or
data; (iv) services providing private line point-to-point service for end users for the purpose of any
transmission of voice or data; (v) video, video conferencing or point-to-point private line service, or
(vi) any service regulated by state regulatory agencies or the Federal Communications Commission
which the state of Utah or Federal Communications Commission has authorized the Company to
provide.

        Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may not use the
Company Facilities to provide, to any customer within the Township, cable television services as
defined in the federal Cable Communication Policy Act of 1984, as amended, without a separate
franchise therefore.

         1.3 Term. The term of the Franchise is ten (10) years commencing on the date both parties
have signed this Agreement (with the Township’s signature evidenced by recordation with the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township) (the “Effective Date”), and then from year-to-year until a party
gives the other party at least ninety (90) days’ notice in writing and in advance of expiration of the
initial term or any subsequent term stating an intent to terminate the Agreement at the end of such
existing term.

                                        ARTICLE II
                              FRANCHISE FEE; ADMINISTRATION FEE

         2.1 Franchise Fee. (a) For and in consideration of the Franchise, and as fair and reasonable
compensation to the Township for the use by the Company of the Township’s Right-of-Way, the
Company will pay to the State of Utah for the benefit of the Township an annual franchise fee (the
“Franchise Fee”), in an amount equal to, and consisting of, the municipal telecommunications
license tax (the “Municipal Telecommunications Tax”) authorized pursuant to the Utah Municipal
Telecommunications License Tax Act, Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 4, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
amended (the “Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act”). Such Franchise Fee shall be calculated in
the manner provided in the Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, and shall be paid by the
Company to the Utah State Tax Commission, as agent for the Township under an Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement by and among the Township, the Utah State Tax Commission, and others,
at the times and in the manner prescribed in the Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, and any
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Compliance by the Company with the terms and
provisions of the Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, and any rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, shall satisfy all requirements of this Agreement with respect to the

                                                  4
calculation and payment of the Franchise Fee.

         (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.1(a) above, the Franchise Fee shall be
calculated and payable as described therein only so long as the Company and the services provided
within the Township by the Company by means of the Company Facilities are subject to the
Municipal Telecommunications Tax or the Township is legally able to charge and collect the Tax.
This franchise does not contemplate or permit Company to provide cable television service and to
the extent all or any portion of the Company Facilities is used to provide cable television service,
Company shall acquire a separate franchise for same. In the event all or any portion of the Company
Facilities ceases to be used by the Company to provide services subject to the Municipal
Telecommunications Tax or the Township is not legally able to impose the tax, the Company shall
pay, in lieu of the Tax, a Franchise Fee with respect to such portion of the Company Facilities, which
shall be calculated as 3.5% of “gross revenue” (as defined in Utah Code Section 10-1-402). Such fee
shall be paid annually, payable from and after (i) the date Company ceases to provide such services,
or (ii) the date the Municipal Telecommunications Tax ceases to apply to the services provided by
the Company. If at any time the Municipal Telecommunications Act is changed in such a way as to
affect this Franchise in any way, the Township and the Company agree to negotiate in good faith
within sixty (60) days any amendments to this Agreement as shall be necessary to accommodate
such changes, including payment provisions; provided such new or changed provisions shall
conform substantially with the provisions contained in any permits held by other similarly situated
companies.


         2.2 Report of Franchise Fee Payment. Upon the written request of the Township, the
Company shall prepare and deliver to the Township, an annual report summarizing Company
payments to the Utah State Tax Commission for the requested period. Such report shall include such
information related to such payment as the Township shall reasonably request, including by way of
example, and not limitation, the gross receipts of the Company from telecommunications service
that are attributed to the Township during such period, and the methodology for calculating such
gross receipts.

         2.3 Record Inspection. The records of the Company pertaining to the annual reports and
payment required in this Agreement, including but not limited to any records deemed necessary or
useful by the Township to calculate or confirm gross receipts, and all other records of the Company
reasonably required by the Township to assure compliance by the Company with the terms of this
Agreement (“Company Confidential Information”), shall be open to inspection by the Township and
its duly authorized representatives upon reasonable notice at all reasonable business hours of the
Company. The Company may require such inspection to be performed at any Company Facilities
where such Company Confidential Information may be located; provided that in the event such
Company Confidential Information is not located at Company Facilities within the Township, such
Company Confidential Information shall be delivered by the Company for inspection by the
Township at the address of the Township set forth in Section 13.1 hereof. Township will hold in
strict confidence and will keep confidential all Company Confidential Information. Township will
use reasonable care to avoid publication or dissemination of such Company Confidential
Information. Township will not disclose Company Confidential Information to any third person.
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Township may disclose Company Confidential Information
                                                 5
to its employees, officers, directors, consultants, advisors and agents (collectively,
“Representatives”) to the extent reasonably necessary to carry out the inspection; provided, however,
that such Representatives are informed of the confidential nature of the Company Confidential
Information, and are bound by confidentiality obligations no less stringent than those set forth
herein. Notwithstanding the forgoing, Company acknowledges that Township is subject to the
requirements of GRAMA as provided for in Paragraph 15.7 below. Company specifically waives any
claims against Township related to disclosure of any materials as required by GRAMA.


        2.4 Service of Process. The Company agrees to use its best efforts to provide a local office
within the State of Utah for purposes of acceptance of process. Otherwise, the Company agrees to
advise Township of a person or office where such process may be served.

        2.5 Administrative Fee. In addition to the annual Franchise Fee described above, the
Company shall pay to the Township, upon execution and delivery hereof, a one-time administrative
fee of $5,000, which shall compensate the Township for (but which does not exceed), the direct costs
and expenses incurred by the Township in preparing, considering, approving, executing and
implementing the Ordinance and this Agreement.

                                      ARTICLE III
                              COMPANY USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY

        3.1 Franchise Rights to Use Right-of-Way. (a) The Company shall have the right to excavate
in, and use any present and future Township-owned or controlled street, alley, viaduct, bridge, road,
lane and public way within the Township, including the surface, subsurface and airspace
(collectively the “Right-of-Way”), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in
locations where Company obtains appropriate permits. In addition, the Company shall have the right
to utilize any easement across private property granted to the Township for utility purposes,
provided (i) the prior written consent of the director of the Township department which controls
such easement is obtained in each case, and (ii) the documents granting such easement to the
Township authorize such use. In all cases, the precise location of the Company Facilities within, on,
over, under, across or through the Right-of-Way shall be subject to Township’s reasonable and
lawful approval, and the right to use such Rights-of-Way shall be subject to the terms of this
Agreement, and all applicable federal, state, and Township laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations
now existing or from time to time adopted or promulgated including but limited to the Township’s
existing regulations limiting the cutting of newly constructed and resurfaced roadways.

         (b) The rights granted to the Company herein do not include the right to (i) excavate in,
occupy or use any Township trail, recreational areas or other property owned by the Township, or
(ii) attach or locate any of the Company Facilities to or on, or otherwise utilize any of, any
Township-owned property or facilities or structures, including without limitation light poles, towers,
buildings and trees. The use of such Township-owned property or facilities by the Company shall be
considered by the Township on a case-by-case basis, and shall be subject to payment of additional
compensation to the Township. Similarly, the rights granted herein by the Township to the Company
do not include the right to situate any Company Facilities on poles or other property owned by
entities other than the Township and situated in the Township’s Right-of-Way. It shall be the
                                                 6
responsibility of the Company to negotiate any pole-attachment agreements or similar agreements
with the owners of such poles or facilities, and to pay to such owners any required compensation.

        3.2 Duty to Relocate. (a) Whenever the Township shall require the relocation or
reinstallation of any of the Company Facilities situated within the Right-of-Way, it shall be the
obligation of the Company, upon notice of such requirement and written demand made of the
Company, and within a reasonable time thereof, but not less than sixty (60) days from the date of
notice, to commence to remove and relocate or reinstall such Company Facilities as may be
reasonably necessary to meet the requirements of the Township, which relocation shall be
completed within a reasonably practicable time thereafter, but in no event longer than one hundred
twenty (120) days, unless extended by mutual agreement. In exigent circumstances, Company will
work with Township to cause such relocation to be completed as quickly as possible. Such relocation
may be required by the Township for any lawful purpose, including, without limitation, the resolution
of existing or anticipated conflicts or the accommodation of any conflicting uses or proposed uses of
the Right-of-Way, whether such conflicts arise in connection with a Township project or a project
undertaken by some other person or entity, public or private. The Township will cooperate with the
Company to provide alternate space where available, within the Right-of-Way, at no additional cost
to the Company.


         (b) Such relocations, as described above in subsection (a), shall be accomplished by the
Company at no cost or expense to the Township. In the event the relocation is ordered for other
purposes, including but not limited to projects undertaken in whole or in part to accommodate the
facilities, development or other project of an entity other than the Township or the Company, the
cost and expense of such relocation shall be borne by such other entity. Any money and all rights to
reimbursement from the State of Utah or the federal government, to which the Company may be
entitled for work done by the Company pursuant to this paragraph, shall be the property of the
Company. Township shall assign or otherwise transfer to the Company all rights it may have to
recover costs for such work performed by the Company and shall reasonably cooperate with the
Company’s efforts to obtain reimbursement.

        3.3 Township Duty to Obtain Approval to Move Company Property; Emergency Exception.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Township shall not, without the prior written approval of
the Company, intentionally alter, remove, relocate or otherwise interfere with any portion of the
Company Facilities. However, if it becomes necessary, in the judgment of the Township
Representative (as defined in Section 6.1 hereof), to cut or move any of the Company Facilities
because of a fire, flood, emergency, earthquake disaster or other imminent threat thereof, or to relocate
any portion of the Company Facilities upon the Company’s failure to do so following a request by
the Township under Section 3.2 hereof, these acts may be done without prior written approval of the
Company and the repairs thereby rendered necessary shall be made by the Company, without charge
to the Township. Any written approval required shall be reviewed and processed by the Company
within seven calendar days and approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or
delayed.

        3.4 Annual Information Coordination. Upon reasonable request, and no more than once per
year, the Company and Township shall meet for the purpose of exchanging information and
                                                   7
documents regarding known or anticipated construction and other similar work within the
Township, with a view toward coordinating their respective activities in those areas where such
coordination may prove mutually beneficial.

        3.5 Common Use of Facilities. (a) In order to minimize the adverse impact to the
Right-of-Way and to Township facilities, and inconvenience to the public, caused by construction,
repair and maintenance activities multiple utility franchisees, it is the policy of the Township to
encourage the shared use of telecommunication facilities by Township franchisees and permittees
whenever practicable.


        (b)       Except when necessary to service a subscriber, and subject to the written approval
and conditions of the Township, the Company will endeavor to, prior to constructing any Company
Facilities, fully utilize any excess capacity reasonably and cost-effectively available on any existing
poles or within any existing conduit, under such terms and agreements as the Company negotiates
with the owners of such poles or conduits. The Township shall cooperate with the Company in
negotiating and obtaining permission to use such facilities.

       (c)      Intentionally deleted.

        (d)     No Company Facilities shall be installed or the installation thereof commenced on
any existing pole within the Right-of-Way until the proposed location, specifications and manner of
installation thereof are set forth upon a plot or map showing the existing poles, where such
installations are proposed. The plot or map shall be submitted for approval to the Township
Representative.

        (e)       If the Company is required to locate Company Facilities within the Right-of-Way
other than Company Facilities which may be attached to utility poles, the nature of such Company
Facilities shall be disclosed to the Township Representative for approval as to the need thereof and as
to the location within the Right-of-Way. The installation shall be made under such reasonable and
lawful conditions as the Township Representative shall prescribe.

       (f)      The Company may trim at its own expense any trees or other vegetation overhanging
the Right-of-Way of the Township to prevent interference with Company Facilities. All trimming on
Township property shall be done with the approval of and under the direction of the Township and at
the expense of the Company.

        (g)      The Company shall, at the request of any person holding a building moving permit
issued by the Township, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such building. The
expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering of the wires shall be paid by the person
requesting the same and the Company shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
Township agrees to cause prior written notice of the necessity to move wires to be given as far in
advance as possible, provided that in no event shall less than thirty (30) days’ advance notice be
given.

       3.6 Duty to Underground. (a) The Company shall be required to comply with the rules and
                                                 8
regulations of the Public Service Commission in regard to the installation of underground lines. In
addition, the Company shall comply with rules and regulations adopted by the Township for the
placement of newly constructed network lines underground; provided, however, Company shall only
be required to place newly constructed network lines underground to the extent that underground
placement is also required of all other existing and newly constructed lines of other
telecommunication companies at that location with the Township at Company’s cost.
Undergrounding may be required by the Township for any lawful purpose, including, without
limitation, the resolution of existing or anticipated conflicts or the accommodation of any conflicting
uses or proposed uses of the Right-of-Way, whether such conflicts arise in connection with a
Township project or a project undertaken by some other person or entity, public or private. If all other
electric utilities or telephone utilities are located or relocated underground in any place within the
Township after the Company has installed its facilities the Company shall thereafter remove and
relocate its facilities underground in such places and within a timeframe agreed to by the parties.
Where utilities are underground, the Company may locate certain equipment above ground upon a
showing of necessity and with the written approval from the Township.

        (b) Township will cooperate with the Company to provide alternate space where available,
within the Right-of-Way, at no additional cost to the Company. Undergrounding, as described above
in subsection (a), shall be accomplished by the Company at no cost or expense to the Township. In
the event the undergrounding is ordered for other purposes, including but not limited to projects
undertaken in whole or in part to accommodate the facilities, development or other project of an
entity other than the Township or the Company, the cost and expense of such undergrounding shall
be borne by such other entity. Any money and all rights to reimbursement from the State of Utah or
the federal government, to which the Company may be entitled for work done by the Company
pursuant to this paragraph, shall be the property of the Company. Township shall assign or otherwise
transfer to the Company all rights it may have to recover costs for such work performed by the
Company and shall reasonably cooperate with the Company’s efforts to obtain reimbursement.

        3.7 Company Duty to Comply With Rules and Regulations. Company Facilities located on,
upon, over or under the Right-of-Way shall be constructed, installed, maintained, cleared of
vegetation, renovated or replaced in accordance with such lawful rules and regulations as the
Township may issue. The Company shall acquire, and any fees with respect to, such permits as may
be required by such rules and regulations, and the Township may inspect the manner of such work and
require remedies as may be necessary to assure compliance.

       3.8      Intentionally deleted.

         3.9 Compliance with Applicable Law. All Company Facilities installed or used under color
of this Agreement shall be used, constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable federal,
state and Township laws and regulations, including without limitation environmental laws; provided
that this provision shall not be construed to require the Company to modify or retrofit any existing
facilities to meet new code standards unless otherwise required by law. Nothing in this Agreement
shall constitute a waiver of either party’s right to challenge any portion of this Agreement which is
not in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws.


                                                  9
        3.10 Location to Minimize Interference. All Company Facilities shall be reasonably located
so as to cause minimum interference with the use of the Right-of-Way by others, and so as to cause
minimum interference with the rights of the owners of property which abuts any portion of the
Right-of-Way.

       3.11 Repair Damage. If during the course of work on Company Facilities, the Company
causes damage to or alters any portion of the Right-of-Way, or any Township facilities or other
public property or facilities, the Company shall (at its own cost and expense and in a manner
approved by the Township Representative), replace and restore such portion of the Right-of-Way or
any Township facilities or other public or private property or facilities, in accordance with
applicable Township ordinances, policies and regulations relating to repair work of similar
character.
        3.12 Guarantee of Repairs. For a period of three years following the completion of any work
in the Right-of-Way or any repair work performed pursuant to Section 3.11, and excluding damage
caused by Township or other third party, the Company shall maintain, repair, and keep in good
condition those portions of the Right-of-Way or property or facilities restored, repaired or replaced by
or on behalf of the Company, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Township Engineer.

        3.13 Safety Standards. The Company’s work, while in progress, shall be properly protected at
all times with suitable barricades, flags, lights, flares, or other devices in accordance with applicable
safety regulations or standards imposed by law.

      3.14 Condition of Company Facilities. The Company shall maintain the general appearance
of Company Facilities in a good and workmanlike manner consistent with best industry practice.

        3.15 Inspection by the Township. The Company Facilities shall be subject to inspection by
the Township to the extent reasonably necessary to assure compliance by the Company with the
terms of this Agreement. The Township shall inspect Company Facilities at reasonable times and
upon reasonable notice to the Company; provided, however, the inspection shall not interrupt or
interfere with any services provided by the Company.

           3.16 Company’s Duty to Remove Company Facilities from the Right-of-Way.

       (a) Subject to subsection (c) below, the Company shall promptly remove from the
Right-of-Way all or any part of the Company Facilities, when one or more of the following
conditions occur:

               (i)     The Company ceases to operate such Company Facilities for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months, and does not begin operating such Company Facilities as provided
below within thirty (30) days after receiving notice following any such cessation from the Township,
except when the cessation of service is a direct result of a natural or man-made disaster;

               (ii)     The failure to cure construction or installation of such Company Facilities
that do not meet the requirements of this Agreement following notice by Township described below;
or
                                                  10
              (iii)    The Franchise is terminated or revoked pursuant to notice as provided herein;
provided, however, that the Company need not remove its network if the Township continues to
receive payments from the state related hereto, and the parties are in discussion of a renewal or
replacement franchise or similar agreement.

       (b) Upon receipt by the Company of written notice from the Township setting forth one or
more of the occurrences specified in subsection (a) above, the Company shall have ninety (90) days
from the date upon which said notice is received to remove such Company Facilities, or, in the case
of subsection (a), to begin operating the Company Facilities.

       (c) The Company may abandon any underground Company Facilities in place, subject to the
reasonable requirements of the Township, and with the prior written consent of the Township, which
may be granted or withheld in the Township’s sole and absolute discretion. In such an event, the
abandoned system shall become the property of the Township and the Company shall have no further
responsibilities or obligations concerning those facilities. The Township shall not use the possibility
of obtaining ownership of the abandoned system as a rationale for terminating or revoking this
Agreement.

       3.17 Operational Reports. During the period of construction of any Company Facilities, the
Company shall furnish the Township with written progress reports as required pursuant to the terms
of any permit to work in the public way.

       3.18 Removal of Facilities Upon Request. Company shall comply with the regulations of the
Utah Public Service Commission regarding removal of the Company Facilities.

                                         ARTICLE IV
                                     TOWNSHIP USE RIGHTS

        4.1 Township Use of Poles and Overhead Structures. The Township shall have the right to
enter into a contract with the Company to license for a fee poles and conduit owned by the Company
within the Township for fire alarms, police signal systems, or any other lawful use; provided,
however, any said uses by the Township shall be for activities owned, operated or exclusively used
by the Township for any public purposes and shall not include the provision of telecommunication,
communication, or Internet services to third parties.

        4.2 Use of Trenches. Whenever the Company proposes to install new underground conduits
or replace existing underground conduits within or under the Right-of-Way, it shall notify the
Township Representative as soon as practical and shall allow the Township, at its own expense, and
without charge to the Company, to use any such trench opened by the Company to lay the
Township’s facilities therein; provided, (i) that such action will not materially interfere with
Company Facilities or delay or otherwise complicate the accomplishment of the Company’s project;
(ii) any said uses by the Township shall be for activities owned, operated or exclusively used by the
Township for any public purposes and shall not include the provision of telecommunication,
communication, or Internet services to third parties; and (iii) that the Company may require the
Township to agree to reasonable terms and conditions of such use.
                                                 11
        4.3 Use of Company Corridors. The Township may identify corridors which the Company
now or in the future owns in fee within the Township and which are similar in nature to transmission
corridors of electric utility companies. The Township may identify portions of such corridors, if any,
as being desirable locations for public parks, playgrounds or recreation areas. In such event, and upon
notice by the Township, the Company shall discuss with the Township in good faith whether an
agreement providing for such uses by the Township can be reached; provided that such use shall be
within the sole discretion of Company The Company shall assume no liability nor shall it incur,
directly or indirectly any additional expense in connection therewith.

      4.4 Limitation on Use Rights. Nothing in this Article 4 shall be construed to require the
Company to increase pole capacity or trench size, alter the manner in which the Company attaches
equipment to the poles or installs facilities, or alter the manner in which it operates and maintains its
equipment.

                                            ARTICLE V
                                          POLICE POWER

        The Township expressly reserves, and the Company expressly recognizes, the Township’s
right and duty to adopt, from time to time, in addition to the provisions herein contained, such
ordinances, rules and regulations as the Township may deem necessary in the exercise of its police
power for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its residents and their properties. This
Agreement is subordinate to Township’s exercise of its police power.

                                        ARTICLE VI
                                  TOWNSHIP REPRESENTATIVE

        6.1 Township Representative. Except as provided hereinafter, the Township Engineer, or
his/her designee, or such other person as the Mayor may designate from time to time (which
designation shall be communicated to the Company in writing), is hereby designated the official of
the Township having full power and authority, along with a representative of the Township
Attorney’s Office, to take appropriate action for and on behalf of the Township and its inhabitants to
enforce the provisions of this Agreement and to investigate any alleged violations or failures of the
Company to comply with said provisions or to adequately and fully discharge its responsibilities and
obligations hereunder. The Township Engineer or such other designee is referred to herein as the
Township Representative. The failure or omission of the Township Representative to so act shall not
constitute a waiver or estoppel. The Township Representative shall be the Company’s initial point of
contact with the Township. Unless specifically provided otherwise, all decisions, consents or
approvals required of the “Township” shall be made or given by the Township through the Township
Representative. The Township Representative shall coordinate with other Township officials,
personnel and departments in all matters relating to this Agreement.

       6.2     Company Duty to Cooperate. In order to facilitate such duties of the Township
Representative, the Company agrees:

        (a)     To allow the Township Representative to inspect at a reasonable time and without
interference to Company operations the Company Facilities in accordance with Section 3.15.
                                              12
        (b)    That the Township Representative may convey to the Company, and, with notice to
the Company in accordance with this Agreement, to the Federal Communications Commission, the
Utah Public Service Commission and any other regulatory agency having jurisdiction, any complaint
of any customer of the Company within the Township with respect to the quality and price of
telecommunication services and the appropriate standards thereof; provided, however, that Township
Representative’s failure to provide any such notice to the Company shall not constitute a breach of
this Agreement.

                                             ARTICLE VII
                                         Intentionally Deleted.



                                         ARTICLE VIII
                                   CONTINUATION OF SERVICE

        In the event the Company is or becomes the exclusive local exchange carrier providing basic
telephone exchange services within the Township, the removal of Company Facilities, and the
discontinuation of telecommunication services by the Company within the Township, shall be
subject to applicable regulations and procedures of the Public Service Commission, or any successor
regulatory body.

                                         ARTICLE IX
                                    TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE

         (a) The Company shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or otherwise make available to
any person or entity other than the Company, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale,
or by ordinary sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the Franchise or any rights or privileges
under this Agreement (each, a “Transfer”), to Proposed Transferee, without the prior written consent
of the Township, such consent will not be unreasonably withheld. The following events (by way of
illustration and not limitation) shall be deemed to be a Transfer of the Franchise requiring compliance
with this Article: (i) the sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of the Company’s assets
to another Person; (ii) the sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interests in the Company by one or more of its existing shareholders,
partners, members or other equity owners, so as to create a new Controlling Interest in the Company;
(iii) the issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership or other equity interest by the
Company so as to create a new Controlling Interest in the Company; or (iv) the entry by the Company
into an agreement with respect to the management or operation of the Company or its facilities
(including the Company Facilities).

               (b) The consent required shall be given or denied by the Township not later than
one-hundred twenty (120) days following receipt by the Township of a written request for consent,
and shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of determining whether it shall grant its
consent, the Township may inquire into the qualifications of the Proposed Transferee, and the

                                                   13
Company shall assist the Township in the inquiry. Township may condition or deny its consent based
on any or a combination of the following or similar criteria. The Proposed Transferee shall indicate by
affidavit whether it:

                       (i)     has ever been convicted or held liable for acts involving deceit
including any violation of federal, State or local law or regulations, or is currently under an
indictment, investigation or complaint charging such acts;

                       (ii)    has ever had a judgment entered against it in an action for fraud,
deceit, or misrepresentation by any court of competent jurisdiction;

                       (iii)    has pending any material legal claim, lawsuit, or administrative
proceeding arising out of or involving a system similar to the Company Facilities, except that any such
claims, suits or proceedings relating to insurance claims, theft or service, or employment matters
need not be disclosed;

                       (iv)    is financially solvent, by submitting financial data, including financial
statements, that have been audited by a certified public accountant, along with any other data that the
Township may reasonably require;

                    (v)       has the financial and technical capability to enable it to maintain and
operate the Company Facilities for the remaining term of this Agreement; and

                       (vi)     the use of the Company Facilities and Right-of-Way by the Proposed
Transferee are consistent with the uses by the Company permitted under this Agreement.

               The Company shall provide to the Township information regarding any failure by the
Company to comply with any provision of this Agreement or of any applicable customer or consumer
service standards promulgated or in effect in the Township’s jurisdiction at any point during the term
of this Agreement.

       (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Township’s consent shall not be required in
connection with, and Company shall provide prompt written notice to Township of, the following
circumstances:

              (i)    The intracorporate transfer from one wholly-owned subsidiary to another
       wholly-owned subsidiary of a parent corporation;

               (ii)    Any transfer in trust, a mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation of the
       assets of the Company, in whole or in part, to secure an indebtedness, provided that such
       pledge of the assets of the Company shall not impair or mitigate the Company’s responsibility
       and capability to meet all its obligations under this Agreement;

               (iii)    Any sale or other transfer by the Company of equipment or property;


                                                  14
               (iv)    Interconnection, license, pole attachment or other agreements pursuant to
       which the Company Facilities may be used by another entity operating within the Township
       (provided, however, that Company acknowledges that such other entity shall be required to
       obtain any relevant permits from the Township); or

              (v)      Company’s acquisition of another entity when the use of the Right-of-Way by
       the acquired entity is consistent with the use permitted under this Agreement.

       (d) Transfer by the Company shall not constitute a waiver or release of any rights of the
Township in or to its Right-of-Way and any transfer shall by its own terms be expressly subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement.
       (e) A sale, transfer or assignment of this Agreement will only be effective upon the Proposed
Transferee becoming a signatory to this Agreement by executing an unconditional acceptance of this
Agreement.
       (f) For purposes of this Article IX, the following terms shall have the following

              (i)     “Control” or “Controlling Interest” means actual working control in whatever
manner exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership, management,
debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the Company Facilities or of the
Company. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of Control or a Controlling Interest shall arise
from the beneficial ownership, directly, by any person, or group of persons or entities acting in
concert, of more than fifty percent (50%) of the Company. “Control” or “Controlling Interest” as
used herein may be held simultaneously by more than one Person.

               (ii)     “Person” means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, association
or corporation, or any other form of organization, and includes any natural person.

               (iii)   “Proposed Transferee” means a proposed purchaser, transferee, lessee,
assignee or person acquiring ownership or control of the Company.

                                   ARTICLE X
                  EARLY TERMINATION OR REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE

         10.1 Grounds for Termination. The Township may terminate or revoke this Agreement and
all rights and privileges herein provided for any of the following reasons:

        (a)       The Company fails to make timely payments of the Franchise Fee as required under
Article II of this Agreement, or any other fee due to the Township under the terms of this Agreement,
and does not correct such failure within forty-five (45) business days after receipt of written notice by
the Township of such failure.

       (b)      The Company, by act or omission, violates a material term or condition herein set
forth within the Company’s control, and with respect to which redress is not otherwise herein
provided. In such event, the Township, acting by or through its Township Council, may after public
hearing, determine that such failure is of a material nature and thereupon, after written notice given to
the Company of such determination, the Company shall, within thirty (30) days of such notice,
                                                  15
commence efforts to remedy the conditions identified in the notice, and shall have six (6) months
from the date it receives notice to remedy the conditions. After the expiration of such six (6) month
period and upon failure by the Company to correct such conditions, the Township may declare the
Franchise forfeited and this Agreement terminated, and thereupon the Company shall have no further
rights or authority hereunder; provided, however, that any such declaration of forfeiture and
termination shall be subject to judicial review as provided by law, and provided further that in the event
such failure is of such nature that it cannot be reasonably corrected within the six (6) month period
above, the Township shall provide additional time for the reasonable correction of such alleged
failure if the Company (i) commences corrective action during such six (6) month period, and (ii)
diligently pursues such corrective action to completion.

      (c)       The Company becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, is adjudged
bankrupt, or all or part of its facilities are sold under an instrument to secure a debt and is not
redeemed by the Company within sixty (60) days.

         (d)     In furtherance of the Company policy or through acts or omissions done within the
scope and course of employment, a member of the Board of Directors or an officer of the Company
knowingly: (i) engages in conduct or (ii) makes a material misrepresentation with or to the Township,
that is fraudulent or in violation of a felony criminal statute of the State of Utah.

       (e)      Company abandons use of all Company Facilities for 12 consecutive months.

      10.2 Reserved Rights. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude the Company
from pursuing any legal or equitable rights or remedies it may have to challenge the action of the
Township.

                                     ARTICLE XI
                         COMPANY INDEMNIFICATION; INSURANCE

        11.1 No Township Liability. The Township shall in no way be liable or responsible for any
loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death of, any person that may occur in the construction,
operation or maintenance by the Company of the Company Facilities; provided, however, that the
Township will be liable only for its own conduct, subject to and without waiving any defenses,
including limitation of damages, provided for in the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code
§§ 63G7-101 et seq.) or successor provision. Company agrees that the Rights-of-Way are delivered
in an “AS IS, WHERE IS” condition and Township makes no representation or warranty regarding
their condition, and disclaims all express and implied warranties.

       11.2 Company Indemnification of Township. The Company shall indemnify, defend and hold
the Township, its officers and employees, harmless from and against all losses, claims,
counterclaims, demands, actions, damages, costs, charges, liens and all liability or damage of
whatsoever kind on account of or arising from the exercise by the Company of its rights hereunder,
and shall pay the reasonable costs of defense, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Said
indemnification shall include but not be limited to the Company’s intentional or negligent acts or
omissions pursuant to its use of the rights and privileges of this Agreement, including construction,
                                                   16
operation and maintenance of the Company Facilities whether or not any such use, act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this Agreement. The Company’s duty to defend
the Township shall exist regardless of whether the Township or the Company may ultimately be found
to be liable for third party negligence or other conduct. In the event that Township’s tender of defense
is rejected by Company or Company’s insurer, and Company is later found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have been required to indemnify Township, then in addition to any other remedies
Township may have, Company agrees to pay the Township’s reasonable costs, expenses and
attorney’s fees in proving such liability, defending itself and enforcing this indemnity provision to
the extent required by section 11.3 below.
        11.3 Notice of Indemnification. The Township shall (a) give prompt written notice to the
Company of any claim, demand or lien with respect to which the Township seeks indemnification
hereunder and (b) unless in the Township’s judgment a conflict of interest may exist between the
Township and the Company with respect to such claim, demand or lien, permit the Company to
assume the defense of such claim, demand, or lien with counsel satisfactory to Township. If such
defense is not assumed by the Company, the Company shall not be subject to any liability for any
settlement made without its consent. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary, the
Company shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold the Township harmless to the extent
any claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection with any breach by the Township of any
obligation under this Agreement or any negligent act or failure to act of the Township or any of its
officers or employees or agents.

       11.4 Insurance.
       (a) The Company, at its own cost and expense, shall secure and maintain, and shall ensure
that any subcontractor to the Company shall secure and maintain, during the term of this
Agreement the following policies of insurance:
               (i)     Commercial General Liability Insurance. Commercial general liability
       insurance with the Township as an additional insured on a primary and non-contributing basis
       in comparison to all other insurance including Township’s own policy or policies of
       insurance, in the minimum amount of $2,000,000 per occurrence with a $3,000,000 general
       aggregate and $3,000,000 products completed operations aggregate. These limits can be
       covered either under a CGL insurance policy alone, or a combination of a CGL insurance
       policy and an umbrella insurance policy and/or a CGL insurance policy and an excess
       insurance policy. The policy shall protect the Township, Company, and any subcontractors
       from claims for damages for personal injury, including accidental death, and from claims for
       property damage that may arise from the Company’s operations under this Agreement,
       whether performed by Company itself, any subcontractor, or anyone directly or indirectly
       employed by either of them. Such insurance shall provide coverage for premises operations,
       acts of independent contractors, products, and completed operations.

                (ii)    Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance. Commercial automobile
       liability insurance that provides coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles, used
       in connection with this Agreement in the minimum amount of with a combined single limit of
       $2,000,000 per occurrence. These limits can be covered either under a commercial automobile
       liability insurance policy alone, or a combination of a commercial automobile liability
                                                 17
insurance policy and an umbrella insurance policy and/or a commercial automobile liability
insurance policy and an excess insurance policy. If the policy only covers certain vehicles or
types of vehicles, such as scheduled autos or only hired and non-owned autos, Company shall
only use those vehicles that are covered by its policy in connection with any work performed
under this Agreement.

        (iii)   Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability. Worker’s compensation
and employer’s liability insurance sufficient to cover all of the Company’s employees
pursuant to Utah law, unless a waiver of coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to Utah
law. In the event any work is subcontracted, the Company shall require its subcontractor(s)
similarly to provide worker’s compensation insurance for all of the latter’s employees, unless
a waiver of coverage is allowed and acquired pursuant to Utah law.

(b)     General Insurance Requirements.

        (i) Any insurance coverage required herein that is written on a “claims made” form
rather than on an “occurrence” form shall (A) provide full prior acts coverage or have a
retroactive date effective before the date of this Agreement, and (B) be maintained for a
period of at least three (3) years following the end of the term of this Agreement or contain a
comparable “extended discovery” clause. Evidence of current extended discovery coverage
and the purchase options available upon policy termination shall be provided to the
Township.

       (ii)     All policies of insurance shall be issued by insurance companies authorized
to do business in the state of Utah and either:

               (A)     Currently rated A- or better by A.M. Best Company; and

                    —OR—
             (B)     Listed in the United States Treasury Department’s current Listing of
       Approved Sureties (Department Circular 570), as amended.

        (iii) The Company shall make available a memorandum of insurance, acceptable to
the Township, verifying the foregoing matters concurrent with the execution hereof and
thereafter as required. Evidence of the Company’s insurance is available at
www.centurylink.com/moi.

       (iv) In the event any work is subcontracted, the Company shall require its
subcontractor, at no cost to the Township, to secure and maintain all minimum insurance
coverages required of the Company hereunder.

        (v) The aforesaid policies shall provide that said insurance shall not be canceled
unless thirty (30) days prior written notice (ten days for non-payment of premium) shall have
been given to Township (provided, however, that in the event that Company’s insurance
carrier will not provide such notice to Township, then Company must provide such written
notice to Township within the time frames set forth above on any required coverage that is not
                                           18
       replaced).

                                          ARTICLE XII
                                           REMEDIES

       12.1 Duty to Perform. The Company and the Township agree to take all reasonable and
necessary actions to assure that the terms of this Agreement are performed.
        12.2 Remedies at Law. In the event the Company or the Township fails to fulfill any of its
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Party that is not in default may exercise any
remedies available to it provided by law; however, no remedy that would have the effect of amending
the provisions of this Agreement shall become effective without a formal amendment of this
Agreement.

                                           ARTICLE XIII
                                            NOTICES

      13.1 Township Designee and Address. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from
the Company to the Township pursuant to or concerning this Agreement shall be delivered to the
Township. at 5025 E. Emigration Canyon Rd. Salt Lake City, 84108.

       (b) such other offices as the Township may designate by written notice to the Company.

       13.2 Company Designee and Address. The Company currently maintains an office and
telephone number for the conduct of matters relating to this Agreement and the Franchise during
normal business hours and shall provide the Township with notice of such address or telephone
number changes. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from the Township to the Company
pursuant to or concerning this Agreement or the Franchise shall be delivered pursuant to section
15.9.

                                          ARTICLE XIV
                                          AMENDMENT

        14.1 Changing Conditions; Duty to Negotiate. (a) The Company and the Township
recognize that many aspects of the telecommunications business are currently the subject of
discussion, examination and inquiry by different segments of the industry and affected regulatory
authorities, and that these activities may ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way the
Company conducts its business. In recognition of the present state of uncertainty respecting these
matters, the Company and the Township each agree, at the request of the other during the term of this
Agreement, to meet with the other and discuss in good faith whether it would be appropriate, in view
of developments of the kind referred to above during the term of this Agreement, to amend this
Agreement or enter into separate, mutually satisfactory arrangements to effect a proper
accommodation of any such developments.

       (b) Either party may propose amendments to this Agreement by giving thirty (30) days
written notice to the other of the proposed amendment(s) desired, and both parties thereafter,
through their designated representatives, will, within a reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an
                                                  19
effort to agree upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s).

        14.2 Entire Agreement; Amendment Approval Required. This Agreement represents the
entire understanding and agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter
hereof, and can be amended, supplemented, modified, or changed only by the written agreement of
the parties, including the formal approval of the Township Council.

                                            ARTICLE XV
                                          MISCELLANEOUS

       15.1 Conditions. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision of this Agreement or
the Ordinance is for any reason determined to be or rendered illegal, invalid, or superseded by other
lawful authority including any state or federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority
having jurisdiction thereof, or determined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision
and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph,
term or provision hereof or thereof, all of which will remain in full force and effect for the term of
this Agreement and the Ordinance or any renewal or renewals thereof.

        15.2 No Waiver or Estoppel. Neither the Township nor the Company shall be excused from
complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement by any failure of the other, or any
of its officers, employees, or agents, upon any one or more occasions to insist upon or to seek
compliance with any of such terms and conditions.

        15.3 Fee Article Essential. (a) Article II hereof is essential to the adoption of this Agreement.

        15.4 Waiver of Non-Severability. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Township stipulates in
writing to judicial, administrative or regulatory action that seeks a determination that Article II is
invalid, illegal, superseded or unconstitutional, then a determination that Article II is invalid, illegal,
unconstitutional or superseded shall have no effect on the validity or effectiveness of any other
section, sentence, paragraph term or provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and
effect.

        15.5 Terms upon Renegotiation. In the event the parties are required to amend or otherwise
renegotiate the Agreement pursuant to section 2.1(b) where the Company is no longer required to
pay to the State of Utah the Municipal Telecommunications Tax, the Company
agrees to remit to Township during the term of such negotiations an amount equal to the remittance the
Township would have received pursuant to said tax attributable to the Company until such time as an
amendment to the Agreement is executed; provided, however, that in no event shall the Company be
obligated to pay a higher percentage of Gross Revenues derived from the sale of
telecommunications services within the Township than is paid by other telecommunication
companies serving within the Township.

        15.6 Utah Governmental Records Management Act. Whenever the Company is required to
deliver to the Township, or make available to the Township for inspection, any records of the
                                                    20
Company, and such records are delivered to or made available to the Township with a written claim
of business confidentiality which meets, in the judgment of the Township Representative, the
requirements of the Utah Governmental Records Management Act (“GRAMA”), such records shall
be classified by the Township as “protected” within the meaning of GRAMA, and shall not be
disclosed by the Township except as may otherwise be required by GRAMA, by court order, or by
applicable Township ordinance or policy.
        15.7 Timeliness of Approvals. Whenever either party is required by the terms of this
Agreement to request the approval or consent of the other party, such request shall be acted upon at
the earliest reasonable convenience of the party receiving the request, and the approval or consent so
requested shall not be unreasonably denied or withheld.

       15.9 Notices. Any notice(s) required or permitted to be given pursuant to this Agreement
may be personally served or may be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the following
addressees:

Company:

CenturyLink Communications, LLC
250 E 200 S Ste 1000
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Attention: Local Network Engineering & Construction
with a copy to:

(a)     CenturyLink Law Department 931 14th St
Denver, CO 80202
Attention: Network Attorney
and
(b) such other offices as the Company may designate by written notice to the Township.

Township:

Emigration Canyon Metro Township
5025 E. Emigration Canyon Rd
Salt Lake City 84108


        16.         Representation Regarding Ethical Standards for Township Officers and Employees
and Former Township Officers and Employees. The Company represents that it has not (1) provided
an illegal gift or payoff to a Township officer or employee or former Township officer or employee, or
his or her relative or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an
agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee, other than
bona fide employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing business;
(3) knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in the Township’s conflict of interest
ordinance, Chapter 2.44, Salt Lake Township Code; or (4) knowingly influenced, and hereby
promises that it will not knowingly influence, a Township officer or employee or former Township
                                                   21
officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in the Township’s conflict of
interest ordinance, Chapter 2.44, Salt Lake Township Code.

         17.       Third Party Beneficiaries. The benefits and protection provided by this Agreement
shall inure solely to the benefit of the Township and the Company. This Agreement shall not be
deemed to create any right in any person who is not a party and shall not be construed in any respect
to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party (other than the permitted successors
and assigns of a party hereto).

        18.      Force Majeure. The Company shall not be held in default or noncompliance with the
provisions of the Franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating thereto, where such
noncompliance or alleged defaults are caused by strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events
reasonably beyond its ability to control, but the Company shall not be relieved of any of its
obligations to comply promptly with any provision of this Franchise contract by reason of any failure
of the Township to enforce prompt compliance. Nothing herein shall be construed as to imply that
either Party waives any right, payment, or performance based on future legislation where said
legislation impairs this contract in violation of the United States or Utah Constitutions.

       19.       Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement and any action related to this
Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Utah. Venue for any action brought
pursuant to this Agreement will be in the United States District Court for the District of Utah in Salt
Lake City.

       20.      Authority. Each individual executing this Agreement on behalf of the Township
and Company represents and warrant that such individual is duly authorized to execute and deliver
this Agreement on behalf of the Township or Company (as applicable).

                                 [Signatures begin on following page.]




                                                    22
       WITNESS WHEREOF, this Franchise Agreement is executed in duplicate originals as of the
day and year first above written.


                                             EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
                                             TOWNSHIP, a Utah municipal corporation




                                              ___________________________________



Township Recorder


Approved As To Form:


Township Attorney




                                            23
                                                 CenturyLink Communications, LLC


                                                 By
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:
                                                 Date:




State of                   )
                        :ss
County of _______________ )

        On the     day of ________, 2020, personally appeared before me _________________ ,
who, being by me duly sworn did say that he/she is the ____________________ of CenturyLink
Communications, LLC, and that the foregoing instrument was signed on behalf of said company and
said person acknowledged to me that he/she is authorized to execute such instrument on behalf of said
company.




                                             NOTARY PUBLIC, residing in _________ County,

My Commission Expires:




                                                24
RESOLUTION NO. 20-09-01                                             DATE: September 15, 2020




                  A RESOLUTION OF THE SALT LAKE
 COUNTY COUNCIL APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN
 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH TOWN OF ALTA, TOWN OF
      BRIGHTON, BLUFFDALE CITY, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, DRAPER CITY, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
 TOWNSHIP, HERRIMAN CITY, HOLLADAY CITY, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP,
  MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, MIDVALE CITY CORP., CITY OF MILLCREEK,
   MURRAY CITY, RIVERTON CITY, CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, AND WHITE
 CITY METRO TOWNSHIP RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF THE COMMUNITY
 DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM, EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT
     PROGRAM AND THE HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM


The Legislative Body of Salt Lake County resolves as follows:

       WHEREAS, the County participates as an “urban county,” as defined by federal

regulation, in the Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Emergency Solutions Grant

(“ESG”), and the HOME Investment Partnership through a consortium that includes the urban

county (“HOME”) programs administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban

Development (“HUD”); and

       WHEREAS, the County has previously entered into three distinct interlocal cooperation

agreements with participating municipalities within Salt Lake County that did not receive

separate CDBG, ESG, and HOME program entitlement grants governing the Parties participation

in the CDBG, ESG and HOME programs which fell short of strictly complying with all HUD-

imposed requirements; and

       WHEREAS, the County now desires to proceed with a single interlocal agreement with

all participating municipalities which strictly complies with all HUD-imposed requirements and

which supersedes and terminates effective upon all CDBG, ESG, and HOME funds and income

received in the three-year period ending June 30, 2021 being expended and the funded activities

completed, the following interlocal agreements between the County and the above referenced
cities: Salt Lake County Contract No. BV9303C, Salt Lake County Contract No. BV03192C,

and Salt Lake County Contract No. BV043108; and


       WHEREAS, an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) has been prepared for

approval and execution by and between the County and participating municipalities, which states

the purposes thereof, and the extent of the required participation of the parties and the rights,

duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the parties in the conduct and administration of the

CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs as specified therein; and

       WHEREAS, under the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Annotated, 11-13101

et seq. (2020) any two or more public agencies may enter into agreements with one another for

joint or cooperative action and may also contract with each other to perform any governmental

service activity or taking which each public agency entering into the contract is

authorized by law to perform.

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Salt Lake County Council that the attached

Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake County and the Town of Alta, Town of

Brighton, Bluffdale City, Copperton Metro Township, Cottonwood Heights City, Draper City,

Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Holladay City, Herriman City, Kearns Metro Township,

Magna Metro Township, Midvale City Corp., City of Millcreek, Murray City, Riverton City,

City of South Salt Lake, and White City Metro Township relating to the conduct of the CDBG,

ESG, and HOME Programs is hereby approved by the Council and the Mayor is hereby

authorized to execute the same on behalf of Salt Lake County.



        [signature page to follow]
      APPROVED this 15th day of September, 2020.

                                EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                By ___________________________
                                       Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST:


__________________________
Salt Lake County Clerk

                                                   Voting:

                                                   Mayor Smolka            _____
                                                   Deputy Mayor Hawkes     _____
                                                   Council Member Brems    _____
                                                   Council Member Harris   _____
                                                   Council Member Bowen    _____
                                THE EMIGRATION CANYON,
                                    METRO TOWNSHIP


 Resolution No. 20-09-02                                                  Date: September 23, 2020
 A RESOLUTION OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP ADOPTING
 THE GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT EMERGENCY
 OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)

 WHEREAS an Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) can reduce the vulnerability of citizens and
 community of the Township of Emigration Canyon, which is within the jurisdiction of the Greater
 Salt Lake Municipal Services District, to loss of life, injury, damage and destruction of property
 during natural, technological, or human-caused emergencies and disasters or during hostile
 military or paramilitary actions;

 WHEREAS an EOP helps the Township of Emigration Canyon, which is within the jurisdiction of
 the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD), prepare for prompt and efficient
 response and recovery to protect lives and property affected by emergencies and disasters;

 WHEREAS an EOP helps the Township of Emigration Canyon, which is within the jurisdiction of
 the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD), respond to emergencies using all
 systems, plans and resources necessary to preserve the health, safety and welfare of persons
 affected by an emergency;

 WHEREAS an EOP helps the Township of Emigration Canyon which is within the jurisdiction of
 the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD), with recovering from emergencies
 and disasters by providing for the rapid and orderly restoration and rehabilitation of persons
 and property affected by emergencies;

 WHEREAS an EOP provides an emergency management system encompassing all aspects of
 pre-emergency preparedness and post emergency response, recovery and mitigation and

 WHEREAS E m i g r a t i o n C a n y o n Metro Townships is within the jurisdiction of the
 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and desires to adopt the MSD EOP as the
 Emigration Canyon EOP in the interest of public health, safety and welfare:

As well as these:

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
 TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Provision of emergency management services. The Greater Salt Lake
 Municipal Services District provides emergency management services to the Town of Brighton,
 the Metro Townships of Kearns, Magna, Emigration Canyon, White City, and Copperton; and
 unincorporated Salt Lake County.

         Section 2. Adoption of the National Incident Management System (NIMS). The
 Emigration Canyon Metro Township hereby adopts the National Incident Management System
 (NIMS) as a framework to integrate and coordinate the emergency response and recovery actions
 of all levels of government.

Section 3. Adoption of an Emergency Operations P l a n . The Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council hereby adopts the Emergency Operations Plan previously adopted by the
MSD as the Emigration Canyon EOP and attached hereto as Exhibit A.


        PASSED AND APPROVED:




Passed and approved by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council this 23rd day
of September 2020.



Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST:


Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
DATE            THURSDAY                             AUGUST                                27, 2020

THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET
ELECTRONICALLY ON THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2020, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 2020, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: DAVID CHURCH, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
                       By: NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Joe Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka read the following statement regarding Utah Code 52-4-202:

              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Chair of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items, which it will consider at its public meeting
to be held tonight or at a future public meeting:

      Flood ordinance
      Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan update
      CARES Act Funding
      COVID-19 update


                                                 1
DATE            THURSDAY                             AUGUST                               27, 2020

      Hiring of new legal counsel
      Road paving update
      Street signage
      Noise and speed control update
      Watershed plan

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Community Input

Citizen Public Comment

               Mark Tracy, Emigration Canyon Homeowners Association, stated several fissures
and cracks have been identified in the Emigration Oaks subdivision along a popular hiking trail.
He asked what the Council was doing to address this issue; someone might fall into one of the
holes and get seriously hurt.

                Council Member Harris stated she was not sure where the sink holes are that Mr.
Tracy is referring to.

               Mr. Tracy stated directly east of the hole that was repaired last year. Some of the
holes are 15 to 20 feet deep.

                 Council Member Harris stated it would not be correct to call the trail in that area
a public trail. The homeowner’s association for that subdivision spends a lot of time trying to keep
people that are not a resident of the subdivision off the trail. She was not sure this was the
responsibility of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council.

                 Mr. Tracy stated the trail was there long before the subdivision was built. If a
person does get seriously injured because of the sink holes in this area, he will make sure that
person knows the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council knew about the holes and did
nothing to fix them.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
                Willy Stockman stated the Department of Water Quality is aware that funds are
limited relating to the Watershed Plan. The Department is willing to help wherever it can to reach
out to stakeholders and get support within the community to help with the plan.

              Council Member Harris stated during the staff meeting the following three options
were discussed towards the creation of a watershed plan. She asked Ms. Stockman what option
she would prefer.

Option 1 – Issue the RFP as drafted with the knowledge that there is no way all the work can be
completed that is prescribed.

                                                 2
DATE            THURSDAY                             AUGUST                                27, 2020


Option 2 - Forego creating a watershed document. The Council could prioritize work element
goals and issue an RFP based on the prioritized goals.

Option 3 – Approach this plan as a series of task or separate projects. Initially the Council would
engage someone to create a document which complies all the available data, research, and
recommendations. RFPs for individual work elements would be issued after all information is
prioritized.

               Ms. Stockman stated she would prefer option three.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Emigration Canyon Community Council Report

                Bill Toby, Chair, stated the brush chipping project has been completed. There
were roughly 850-man hours donated towards the project. Community members are in favor of
getting additional officers to help enforce noise and speed issues within the canyon.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Officer Jake Elsasser updated the Council on calls for service during the month
of July. He reviewed the speed study for the canyon and noticed speeds are increasing since the
road has been repaved.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

                Captain Michael Conn stated a UFA paramedic passed away earlier this month.
Crews were sent to California to help with the fires and Louisiana to help with the hurricanes. An
abandoned house was burned down the night before it was scheduled to be demolished, the
incident is under investigation. Training for new recruits will begin in February 2021. Riverton City
will be Unified Fire Service Area but will contract directly with UFA.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business

Forest Survey Letter

               There was nothing to discuss at this time.



                                                 3
DATE           THURSDAY                             AUGUST                               27, 2020

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

               Council Member Harris stated Sandy Wingert, Department of Water Quality, will
support whatever the Council decides to do. It is not unusual for entities to modify its objectives
once a grant is received. It takes 12-15 months to complete a project once it is initiated, so the
Council is not behind on its time commitment.

               Council Member Brems asked how the Council would find the right person to
compile the information.

              Council Member Harris stated Ms. Wingert would provide the Council some
guidance with this. It might be appropriate to create a separate RFP for this task.

              Mayor Smolka, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to proceed with
Option 3. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emergency Operations Plan (EOP)

             Mayor Smolka stated the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) was emailed out to
council members as well as hard copies made available. Since that time, a few minor changes
have been made to the plan as recommended by himself and Council Member Bowen.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the contact information listed in the Emergency
Operations Plan are not correct. Also, she would like to see additional clarification as far as
earthquake faults and the re-routing of I-80 through Emigration Canyon if a need arises.

               Mayor Smolka stated the rerouting of I-80 was included in the plan because it
would open Emigration Canyon up to the potential of receiving additional funding, which could be
used for roads and hillside stabilization. He suggested the Council approve the plan including the
minor corrections.

             Council Member Harris, seconded by Council Member Hawkes, moved to approve
the Emergency Operation Plan with the recommended changes. The motion passed
unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legal Issues

    Flood Control Ordinance

              David Church, Legal Counsel, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, stated he has
prepared a standard ordinance for Flood Control to fit the Emigration Canyon Metro Township

                                                4
DATE            THURSDAY                             AUGUST                                27, 2020

format, however, he does not see it on the agenda tonight for adoption. The adoption of the
ordinance will help citizens with the premium cost on flood insurance. He asked that this be
included on next month’s agenda.

    CenturyLink Franchise Agreement

               Mayor Smolka asked about the CenturyLink franchise agreement.

                 Mr. Church stated he used the template suggested by CenturyLink and adjusted
it to fit Emigration Canyon Metro Township needs with additions from CenturyLink. He has not
heard anything back from them. This is a replacement contract to the one CenturyLink had with
the Salt Lake County. It would give the township the ability to deal with CenturyLink directly. He
will follow up with the contract and see where it is in the process.

    Sink Holes in Emigration Oaks Subdivision

               Council Member Harris asked for advice relating to comments made by Mark
Tracy during tonight’s Citizen Input.

                Mr. Church stated he does not know anything about the trail so he cannot
comment for sure. However, the Council needs to be concerned if this is a public trail that the
township is claiming and maintaining. Generally, if it is a public facility and the Council knows of
a defect and does not take reasonably steps to take care of it, then there is a potential for a claim
against the city.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

                Mayor Smolka stated he signed the Clerk’s Office bill as well as one other. No
bill has been received for CodeRED. He is working with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service
District (MSD) to get the budgets ready for next year. The projected revenues are $201,900 with
a contribution from the MSD for the total budget of $584,193. Fees for elections, legal, and
insurance all went up. Also included in next year’s budget is a $10,000 annual fee for the
Emergency Operation Plan. A more complete budget will be presented next month.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Minutes

               Council Member Brems, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
the minutes of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township meetings held on June 18, June 25, and
July 16, 2020. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

                                                 5
DATE           THURSDAY                             AUGUST                              27, 2020


Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Brems stated a committee was created to negotiate the
departure of Taylorsville City. At this time Midvale City will not be leaving UPD. The Board spent
time looking at a five-year plan to get officer pay within the top three law enforcement agencies
in Utah. Frank Nakamura, SLVLESA, will be presenting to the Council information on a possible
property tax cap increase being discussed at the legislature.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

               Nothing new to report.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

                Council Member Bowen stated Riverton City is leaving UFSA and contracting
directly with UFA. The details of this move are still be worked out.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

              Council Member Bowen stated Rita Lund was appointed chair for the Animals
Services Advisory Board.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               Council Member Harris stated Pam Roberts, Chief Executive Officer, WFWRD,
has taken a leave of absence until the 21st of September. WFWRD may ask for funding from each
member entities CARES Act funding. The amount would be based on population.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she added a link for the CARES Act report.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                                6
DATE               THURSDAY                         AUGUST                               27, 2020

CodeRED

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the bill for CodeRED has been paid. The
Emigration Improvement District (EID) needs to be invoiced for half the amount of the invoice.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

                Mayor Smolka stated budget meetings have been held multiple times a month
and is moving forward. The MSD is operating with 25 percent of the staff at the office and the rest
of the staff working from home, productivity is up. The 4700 South project received a $15-$18
million grant. Over the next few years, the MSD will need to come up with the $5.5 million to fund
the remainder of the project.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Mayor Smolka stated at the first of the year, compost costs will go up to $15 a
yard.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Council of Governments

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)

                Mayor Smolka stated a presentation was given on what funds the township is
eligible for. There may be funding to widen the canyon road to help accommodate bike traffic
better.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Other Announcements

Resurfacing of Roads

             Council Member Brems stated in the past the main canyon road up to Middle
Tree has been resurfaced at the same time as the main road. But it is not being done this time.
He asked how the Council could make sure this part of the road was included.



                                                7
DATE              THURSDAY                           AUGUST                               27, 2020

               Mayor Smolka stated he is meeting with the employees from Salt Lake County
this week and will ask about it. He would like to pave all the way to the fake sidewalk. However,
if that happens the speeds will increase in that area. Striping is being done in the canyon as well.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Signage

             Council Member Brems asked if all the signage was completed below the fire
station. When it gets completed information needed to be added to the website explaining what
the signage means and why it was replaced.

               Mayor Smolka stated the signage is not completed.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Jersey Barriers

             Council Member Harris asked at what point the jersey barriers would be replaced
down the canyon from the fire station. There are several areas with debris in the road.

               Mayor Smolka stated the barriers will be replaced once the stripping is done.
Additional barriers will be added across the road from the Pioneer Ridge Road.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Alternative Corridor

                Council Member Harris asked if there was a way to track the increased traffic
through Emigration Canyon if Parley’s Canyon is closed. Emigration Canyon road does not have
the capacity to handle all the increased traffic. Funding should be available if Emigration Canyon
road is designated as an alternative corridor.

             Mayor Smolka stated the township will have increased funding opportunities to
make the use of the road safe.

              Council Member Harris stated there needs to be some type of information
available showing just what the road through Emigration Canyon can handle.

               Officer Jake Elsasser, Unified Police Department, stated he would gather the
data for the Council.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Cycling Lane



                                                 8
DATE           THURSDAY                             AUGUST                               27, 2020

               Council Member Brems stated as a cyclist he is concerned about people who put
their garbage cans and park cars in the cycling lane. The Council needs to hold a discussion on
what can be done about that.

              Mayor Smolka stated if it is a designated bike lane, then people cannot park on it.
He asked Officer Elsasser to check on what can be done with garbage cans that are put in the
bicycle lane.

                Officer Elsasser stated there are ordinances that can be used to deal with cars
and trailers parked in the bicycle lanes. He will look into what can be done with garbage cans.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Power Given to Townships

                Mayor Smolka stated he wanted to take a minute and address the power that has
been given to townships. This past week he made a call to Deputy Mayor Catherine Kanter
regarding the closure of Parley’s Canyon and how it was affecting Emigration Canyon negatively.
Shortly after the phone call, Parley’s Canyon was reopened.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emergency Operations Plan

                Council Member Harris stated she has reviewed the Emergency Operations
Plan, which is very complicated and thought it would be a good idea to have a gathering to practice
some of the procedures within the plan.

                Mayor Smolka stated he agreed, it would be worth practicing so the Council would
be familiar with it.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                             SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP
                                             CLERK



                                             By ________________________________
                                                Deputy Clerk



                                                9
DATE        THURSDAY                      AUGUST        27, 2020


_____________________________________________________
MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                     10
