                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
                                           Public Meeting Agenda

                     Thursday, October 15, 2020 8:30 A.M.
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Robert Pinon has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will
be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic,
which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please
use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
 Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                           BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the September 17, and September 24, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting
       Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) General Plan Economic Development Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate
       Davies
    3) General Plan Land Use Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate Davies
    4) General Plan Transportation Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate Davies
    5) Discuss Adoption timeline. Planner: Kate Davies
    6) Other Business Items. (as needed)

                                                  ADJOURN
October 15, 2020                                    Page 1 of 2       AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



October 15, 2020                                      Page 2 of 2              AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                        WRITTEN DETERMINATION – NO ANCHOR LOCATION

                        The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission is scheduled to hold a
5025 East Emigration    business meeting on October 15, 2020, beginning at 8:30 am. Pursuant to Utah Code
    Canyon Road         Ann. § 52-4-207(4), I, Robert Pinon, have determined in my capacity as the Chair of
 Salt Lake City, Utah   the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission to hold the business
        84108
                        meeting without an anchor location due to COVID19, which presents a substantial
                        risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location.
                        This written determination shall expire 30 days from today.

                                               Dated this _____ day of _________, 2020.


                                               By________________________________
                                               Robert Pinon
                                               Chair, Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning
                                               Commission
This page intentionally left blank
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
              EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                            Thursday, September 17, 2020 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 47 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                 Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace            x           x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                     x             x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
                                                                              Jim Nakamura                    x             x
          Jim Karkut                                   x
                                                                                Kate Davies                   x             x
         Robert Pinon            x           x
                                                                               Jim McNulty                    x             x
         Dale Berreth            x           x
          Tim Harpst             x           x



Commissioner Pinon read the electronic meeting determination.

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 8:48 p.m.
    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2020
       Election of Chair for 2020
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Pinon for Chair, Commissioner Pinon accepted.
              Motion by: Commissioner Berreth
              2nd by: Commissioner Harpst
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Election of Vice Chair for 2020
        Motion: To nominate Commissioner Wallace for Vice Chair, Commissioner Wallace accepted. If
        at any time he needs to step down, Commissioner Harpst will proceed that position.
                Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
                2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the November 14, 2019 meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the November 14, 2019 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Harpst

Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission – September 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary                       Page 1 of 3
               2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   3) General Plan Discussion and review. Planner: Kate Davies

       Ms. Davies provided a PowerPoint presentation with a summary of the general plan. Commissioner
       Pinon said this presentation is spot on what they have been talking about in the steering committee.
       Ms. Davies asked to move forward with presenting to the Council. She will clarify with the council
       this is only one element at their next meeting.

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)

       No other business items to discuss.

                                      LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                        Meeting began at – 9:11 a.m.

31202- Adam Breen is requesting an Amendment to the Anderson Cove Subdivision to vacate public
utility/cross-access easements and propose new public utility easements. The purpose of the request is to
allow lot #2 its potential buildable area without impacting the existing Single-Family Dwelling built on
adjacent lot #3. Acreage: .50 acres. Location: 4283 Emigration Canyon Road. Zone: FR-0.5 (Forestry and
Recreation). Planner: Jim Nakamura. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior to acting
on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jim Nakamura provided an analysis of the staff
report.

Commissioner Pinon confirmed the neighbors and who owns the lot. Mr. Nakamura confirmed vacate
would be vacating easements instead of vacating trees. Commissioner Pinon showed an overlay showing
the trees they are saving. Commissioner Pinon asked if there is dimension between the two drives being
required. Mr. Nakamura said there will be only one point of egress onto the canyon road, but will each
have their own driveway. The curb cut may increase to the proposed 35 feet. Commissioner Harpst said if
they widen the drive, will work as two driveways, owners will not be driving across each other’s property
line and how wide would they allow that to be and there should maximum extensions. Does not see any
issues having joint or separate driveways if utility companies affected by this can work with the easements.

Commissioner Pinon introduced the letter from Breen homes with the history of the property.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the subdivision creation, egress, restricted utility
easements, and abutting property and subdivision, striping. Mr. McNulty said this is an amended plat for
the current subdivision, and not adjacent subdivision.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

No one from the public present to speak.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED


Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission – September 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary      Page 2 of 3
Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding separate driveway, left hand turn lane, Ingress/Egress,
and striping.

Motion: To continue application #31202 the September 24th to continue the review and allow the applicant
to be present.
        Motion by: Commissioner Wallace
        2nd by: Commissioner Harpst
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Harpst motioned to adjourn.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                       Time Adjourned – 10:35 a.m.




Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission – September 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary   Page 3 of 3
                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                Thursday, September 24, 2020 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 3 minutes                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                     found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                      & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                   ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                 Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
         Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                  Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
   Andrew Wallace (Vice Chair)     x           x
                                                                                Wendy Gurr                      x            x
        Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
                                                                               Jim Nakamura                     x            x
           Jim Karkut                                    x
                                                                                 Kate Davies                                 x
      Robert Pinon (Chair)         x           x
                                                                                Jim McNulty                     x            x
          Dale Berreth             x           x
           Tim Harpst              x           x



                                              BUSINESS MEETING

                                           Meeting began at – 8:32 a.m.
        Commissioner Pinon read the electronic meeting and opening statement.

    1) General Plan Land Use Chapter Discussion and Review. Planner: Kate Davies

        Kate provided an update and review of the Land use chapter. Commissioners discussed the
        Emigration Canyon Character Areas regarding main canyon road character area and recent
        development character area. Went through the demographic projections through the canyon, recent
        developments. No changes made to character area descriptions. Work Plan goals. Commissioners
        asked if one of their goals be to try and protect noise. Kate will add it in land use.

    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

        No other business items to discuss.

                                          LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                           Meeting began at – 8:58 a.m.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – September 24, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 3
31202- (Continued from 09/17/2020) - Adam Breen is requesting an Amendment to the Anderson Cove
Subdivision to vacate public utility/cross-access easements and propose new public utility easements. The
purpose of the request is to allow lot #2 its potential buildable area without impacting the existing Single-
Family Dwelling built on adjacent lot #3. Acreage: .50 acres. Location: 4283 Emigration Canyon Road.
Zone: FR-0.5 (Forestry and Recreation). Planner: Jim Nakamura. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior to acting
on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jim Nakamura advised since last week, Mayor found
it a good idea for a second approach and preliminary approval from engineering.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Adam Breen
Address: 6340 South 3000 East, Cottonwood Heights
Comments: Mr. Breen said he has taken the proposal to the owner and received approval. Confirm the
maps with white and green approach across lot 1 and 2 and both to come off Emigration Canyon Road.

Mr. Nakamura said proposed is the green option. Mr. Breen said take the north and south driveway
approach, proposal is the green line, lot 2 would access to driving through lot 1. Commissioner Pinon
explained there is not a spot for a car, and highly recommend using green to access 2 and 1. Abandon the
white strategy and create the green strategy and trade access. Commissioner Wallace said not proposing
to stipulate the exact location where the setbacks would be from northeast. Commissioner Pinon said trying
to identify across the street from drive approach on lot 1. Commissioner Harpst explained the access and
allows time for people to deaccelerate. If went with green concept, if similar to lay out to lot on the west,
existing home remain as is and would have joint 1 and 2. Commissioner Pinon said if acceptable would
improve the safety of the canyon. Mr. Breen thinks this is doable. Original plan, lot 1 needed ingress and
egress and asked if that was in consideration with the new proposal. Mr. Nakamura said not defined on
original plat defined approach. Nothing noted on original plat. Mr. Breen said worried on lot owner,
devaluation to lot 1. Commissioner Pinon said there was a cross access agreement for lot 1 through lot 2
for 1.

Commissioner Wallace asked if something he would be interested in between the two lots. Mr. Breen thinks
that is a happy medium to move the access to the west. Mr. Breen agreed to that. Mr. Nakamura said will
set up site meeting with traffic engineer and he understands proposal and discussion. Commissioner
Wallace said that 2 and 1 if egress was near that line and one car should be able to stop before it turns in
to the driveway up canyon between lot 1 and 2. Mr. Nakamura asked the easement on lot 1 to the east, are
we proposing that vacated as well, proposal to vacate shared access easements between lot 2 and 3 and
utility easement between lots 2 and 1. Commissioner Harpst said once location of drive is established.

Commissioner Pinon motioned to open the public meeting.

No one from the public was present to speak.

Commissioner Harpst motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Berreth seconded that motion.



Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – September 24, 2020 – Meeting Summary             Page 2 of 3
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #31202 with shared access easements between lot 2 and 3 be vacated along
with utility easement. Between lot 1 and 2 utility easement will double in size to make up for. New approach
proposed to be determined based on field review with traffic engineer, vacating east approach. The purpose
in relief of hardship to see safest approach for roadway and once new access for lot 1 and 2 is established
and approved, appropriate utility easements adjusted accordingly.
         Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
         2nd by: Commissioner Wallace
         Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Commissioner Berreth motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Wallace seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 9:35 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – September 24, 2020 – Meeting Summary            Page 3 of 3
