                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
                                           Public Meeting Agenda

                  Thursday, November 19, 2020 8:30 A.M.
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Robert Pinon has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will
be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic,
which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please
use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
 Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                           BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the October 15, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (as needed)

                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

Emigration Canyon Metro Township is considering adopting the proposed 2020 Emigration
Canyon Metro Township General Plan, which plans for the areas within Emigration Canyon Metro
Township. The 2020 General Plan is Emigration Canyon’s first comprehensive plan since
incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan synthesizes data and public feedback to
November 19, 2020                                   Page 1 of 2       AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
describe current conditions, envision Emigration Canyon’s future, and guide Emigration Canyon
from present conditions toward that desired vision. This General Plan meets the required State
laws for general planning, including elements on Land Use and Transportation. It also includes the
following supplemental elements: Introduction, Economic Development, Environment, Resilience
and Infrastructure, and Community Work Program. Planner: Kate Davies (Motion/Voting)

Please visit: bit.ly/lrp-ec to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration Canyon Metro Township General
Plan.

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed general plan after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning
commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments
will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                          ADJOURN




November 19, 2020                           Page 2 of 2    AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



November 19, 2020                                     Page 2 of 2              AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                        WRITTEN DETERMINATION – NO ANCHOR LOCATION

                        The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission is scheduled to hold a
5025 East Emigration    business meeting on November 19, 2020, beginning at 8:30 am. Pursuant to Utah
    Canyon Road         Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), I, Robert Pinon, have determined in my capacity as the
 Salt Lake City, Utah   Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission to hold the
        84108
                        business meeting without an anchor location due to COVID19, which presents a
                        substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor
                        location. This written determination shall expire 30 days from today.

                                               Dated this _____ day of _________, 2020.


                                               By________________________________
                                               Robert Pinon
                                               Chair, Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning
                                               Commission
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
              EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                             Thursday, October 15, 2020 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 25 minutes                               *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace                         x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                                   x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
                                                                                Kate Davies                                 x
          Jim Karkut                          x
                                                                               Jim McNulty                                  x
         Robert Pinon                         x
                                                                                Adam Long                                   x
         Dale Berreth                         x
          Tim Harpst                          x



Commissioner Pinon read the electronic meeting determination.

                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 8:34 p.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the September 17, 2020 meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the September 17, 2020 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
             2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Approval of Minutes from the September 24, 2020 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the September 24, 2020 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
              2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) General Plan Economic Development Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate Davies

        Ms. Davies touched on highlights of the Economic Development Element. Ms. Davies emphasized
        this is development, not growth, and emphasized sustainability, existing and future opportunities,
        and the work plan.

Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission – October 15, 2020 – Meeting Summary                         Page 1 of 2
        Commissioners agreed this should be advanced to the Council for discussion.

    3) General Plan Land Use Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate Davies

        Ms. Davies said she has received Commissioner Karkut’s comments and has forwarded them to
        MSD Adam Long. Will receive input from the Council next week.

    4) General Plan Transportation Element Review and Feedback. Planner: Kate Davies

        Ms. Davies advised the Transportation Element should be done by Monday. Will receive input from
        the Council next week.

    5) Discuss Adoption timeline. Planner: Kate Davies

        Ms. Davies provided the adoption timeline. Request the Planning Commission public hearing would
        be pushed to November 19th, rather than meeting on the 12th. Draft review by the end of October.

    6) Other Business Items (as needed)

        No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Berreth motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Wallace seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 8:59 a.m.




Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission – October 15, 2020 – Meeting Summary    Page 2 of 2
From:              tyler@tippetts.cc
To:                Wendy Gurr
Subject:           Emigration Canyon General Plan
Date:              Saturday, November 14, 2020 2:47:32 PM


Ms. Gurr,
            I am writing to you in support of including a groundwater study as part of the general plan for
Emigration Canyon.
                        Thank you,
                                         Tyler Tippetts |
From:                   Jessica Kramer
To:                     Wendy Gurr
Subject:                hydrology study is essential for canyon plan!
Date:                   Sunday, November 15, 2020 11:30:16 AM



Hello Mx Gurr,
I am an Emigration Canyon resident. I live on the creek and I depend on well water. I am
disappointed that the current draft of the canyon plan does not include hydrology studies to
understand creek flow and groundwater. As noted in the plan, it is a fact that our climate is
changing and it is a fact that the city's population is growing. I am rather baffled that the plan
includes only a summary of the state of our sparse hydrological knowledge stemming from the
old 1960's master thesis, but includes no plan for future studies with which to generate
evidence-based recommendations for land use and growth.

The point of the Canyon Master Plan is to develop plans for the future. Any plan that doesn't
account for evidence-based water use is not serving the residents, the animals, and the
environment in the canyon. I highly urge that the2020 plan include a cohesive plan to gather
data through professional hydrology studies on the waterflow through the creek, snowpack,
and the hydrological aspects of groundwater location, quantity, and interconnectedness.

Best,
Dr. Jessica Kramer

------------------------------------------------------------------
Jessica R. Kramer, Ph.D.
Asst. Professor of Biomedical Engineering




pronouns: she/her
From:           Matt Velinder
To:             Wendy Gurr; Emigration Sustainability
Subject:        Support for inclusion of a groundwater study in EC General Plan
Date:           Sunday, November 15, 2020 1:26:43 PM


Hi Wendy,

I am writing you in support for the inclusion of a groundwater study in the Emigration Canyon
General Plan. Water issues are critical to our community and a significant portion of canyon
residents are concerned about water availability and quality. Support for a groundwater study
(and hopefully the completion of the study) would be an accurate reflection of the desires and
concerns of Emigration residents. I hope it will be included in the final EC General Plan!

Thanks so much,
Matt Velinder (Emigration Canyon Community Council Member)
From:           Melinda McAnulty
To:             Wendy Gurr
Subject:        Emigration Canyon General Plan draft
Date:           Monday, November 16, 2020 11:40:54 AM



Dear Wendy,
I was so happy to see an emphasis on the environment in the Emigration Canyon General Plan.
That is, after all, why we live here and why recreation is so popular in our canyon. To maintain
this environment, we must ensure there is adequate water for residents, wildlife, and flora.
The last evaluation of how much water we have in our watershed was in 1966, a master
thesis, by Barnett, J. Since then, a groundwater study was recommended in the general plan of
1999, however no action was taken. Considering predictions of climate change in a state
which the second driest state in the union, I would like to strongly urge that an updated
groundwater study be undertaken. This will give us a solid framework for evaluating new
development and direct action needed to sustain our beautiful canyon, our water supply, our
streams now and in the years to come.

Regards,
Mindy McAnulty
From:               Phil Triolo
To:                 Wendy Gurr
Subject:            Inclusion of Groundwater Study in Emigration Canyon General Plan
Date:               Monday, November 16, 2020 2:21:20 PM


Dear Ms. Gurr;

I hope you are doing well in these interesting times...

I spent some time reading through the draft of the Emigration Canyon General Plan. Although I agree with much of
it, there is
a lack of a plan to conduct a ground water study. As water is already over-allocated in much of Utah, and climate
change is
altering the amount of water that is replenishing aquifers and/or that can be stored for consumption, conduct of a
groundwater
study is imperative. Its results are needed to inform decisions on growth and, and perhaps restrictions on water use
or how
we pay for water in the Canyon to assure all current residents' water needs are met.

Please consider adding a requirement or at least a recommendation for conducting a groundwater study for
Emigration Canyon in the plan, as all
plans for the future rely more on the availability of water than probably any other resource, and the quantity of water
that can be continually and
reliably provided to Canyon residents is unknown. Results of the study will provide the basis for prudent, science-
based planning.

Thanks for your consideration.

Best regards,
Phil

--
Phil Triolo PhD RAC
Owner and Principal Consultant




Confidentiality Notice: This e-mail and any attachments are intended only for the use of those
to whom it is addressed and may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
further disclosure under law. If you have received this e-mail in error, its review, use, retention
and/or distribution is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact
the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message and any attachments.
From:          Mary Tull
To:            Wendy Gurr
Subject:       Ground Water Study - Plan
Date:          Monday, November 16, 2020 6:48:46 PM



Greetings!

I am currently reading the draft version of the Emigration Canyon General Plan. It is
a very important document, well done and extensive in its scope. Impressive. I am
writing to support adding to the plan a groundwater study. I believe the data from this
study will be critical for future planning regarding water use and resources in an era of
increasing climate change. Lack of water concerns us all and monitoring this is of
extraordinary importance for future planning and sustainability.

Thank you!
Mary Tull
