                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
                                           Public Meeting Agenda

                     Thursday, January 14, 2021 8:30 A.M.
                                              **AMENDED**
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Robert Pinon has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will
be held electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic,
which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please
use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                            BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2021. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Approval of the December 2, and 17, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)

January 14, 2021                                    Page 1 of 2       AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
    3) Other Business Items. (as needed)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

(Continued from 11/19 and 12/17/2020) - Emigration Canyon Metro Township is considering
adopting the proposed 2020 Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan, which plans for
the areas within Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The 2020 General Plan is Emigration
Canyon’s first comprehensive plan since incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan
synthesizes data and public feedback to describe current conditions, envision Emigration Canyon’s
future, and guide Emigration Canyon from present conditions toward that desired vision. This
General Plan meets the required State laws for general planning, including elements on Land Use
and Transportation. It also includes the following supplemental elements: Introduction, Economic
Development, Environment, Resilience and Infrastructure, and Community Work Program.
Planner: Kate Davies (Motion/Voting)

Please visit: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/ to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration
Canyon Metro Township General Plan.

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed general plan.

                                           ADJOURN




January 14, 2021                           Page 2 of 2     AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



January 14, 2021                                                               AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                        WRITTEN DETERMINATION – NO ANCHOR LOCATION

                        The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission is scheduled to hold a
5025 East Emigration    business meeting on January 14, 2021, beginning at 8:30 am. Pursuant to Utah Code
    Canyon Road         Ann. § 52-4-207(4), I, Robert Pinon, have determined in my capacity as the Chair of
 Salt Lake City, Utah   the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission to hold the business
        84108
                        meeting and public hearing without an anchor location due to COVID19, which
                        presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
                        the anchor location. This written determination shall expire 30 days from today.

                                               Dated this _____ day of _________, 2021.


                                               By________________________________
                                               Robert Pinon
                                               Chair, Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning
                                               Commission
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
        EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION SPECIAL WORKING MEETING
                          Wednesday, December 2, 2020 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 9 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                 Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace                        x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                                   x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
                                                                                Kate Davies                                 x
          Jim Karkut                         x
                                                                               Jim McNulty                                  x
         Robert Pinon                        x
                                                                                Adam Long                                   x
         Dale Berreth                        x
          Tim Harpst                         x



                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
    1) General Plan Review and Revisions

        Ms. Davies went through the 1.7.4 Key recommendations. Discussion of watershed quality and
        sustainable use, and land management decision-making.

        Emigration Oaks, Marriott Lane does not want to be recognized as a neighborhood, only a three
        permanent residents among the character area. Red Hill Lane chose to name their neighborhood
        Maple Grove.

        Describing the roads in Pinecrest and Killyons and some roads preceded current County standards.
        History of controversary over the roads in this area and are not located where properly platted.

        Canyon protection for preservation of open space and consider water availability resources before
        issuing permits.

        Page 64: Under Area Vision: Where appropriate, lands in the Canyon are maintained for open
        space, viewshed and wildlife habitat for the enjoyment of current and future generations.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – December 2, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 2
       Page 68: Under Action Items: Add: Canyon in reviewing applications and maintain watershed
       quality, remove – ensure natural recharge of aquifers is not exceeded.

       Economic Development changed to Economic Development Considerations. Extending appendix
       for Wasatch Choice 2050. Look for an alternative for Wilderness. Groundwater studies,
       groundwater systems, monitoring and implementation.

       Mr. Bowen said he has never heard a reference to roads and should include the Lochner Study and
       is a study of how Emigration Canyon Road will be maintained for the next 50 years. This study is
       part of the General Plan.

       Goal 5.3 will be presented to the ECID for input. Future land management decisions, groundwater
       study addressed in ECID meeting and they favor it. Water stats will be verified with lots, not homes
       with wells, ECID, or Salt Lake County Public Works.

   2) Other Business Items. (as needed)

       Confirmed the next planning commission meeting will be December 17th.

Commissioner Karkut motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Harpst seconded that motion.

Please visit: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/ to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration Canyon
Metro Township General Plan.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 8:10 p.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – December 2, 2020 – Meeting Summary              Page 2 of 2
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                   EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                              Thursday, December 17, 2020 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 24 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 4                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                               Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent               Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace            x
                                                                              Wendy Gurr                     x            x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
          Jim Karkut             x           x                                 Kate Davies                   x            x
         Robert Pinon            x           x                                Jim McNulty                    x            x
         Dale Berreth            x           x                                 Adam Long                     x            x
          Tim Harpst             x           x


Joe Smolka
Willy Stokman
Mark Christopher Tracy
Gary Bowen

                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 8:33 a.m.

Commissioner Pinon read the electronic meeting and Chairs Opening statement.

    1) Approval of the November 19, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the November 19, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
             2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule for Approval. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Pinon noted the planning commission meeting schedule. Commissioners did not have
        comments.

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – December 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 3
                                            PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                       Hearings began at – 8:37 a.m.

(Continued from 11/19/2020) - Emigration Canyon Metro Township is considering adopting the proposed
2020 Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan, which plans for the areas within Emigration
Canyon Metro Township. The 2020 General Plan is Emigration Canyon’s first comprehensive plan since
incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan synthesizes data and public feedback to describe
current conditions, envision Emigration Canyon’s future, and guide Emigration Canyon from present
conditions toward that desired vision. This General Plan meets the required State laws for general planning,
including elements on Land Use and Transportation. It also includes the following supplemental elements:
Introduction, Economic Development, Environment, Resilience and Infrastructure, and Community Work
Program. Planner: Kate Davies (Motion/Voting)

Please visit: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/ to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration Canyon
Metro Township General Plan.

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed general plan after taking comments from the public
during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules
of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Kate Davies provided an overview of
the General Plan and advised the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is required to adopt a general plan
which requires Land Use and Transportation Elements.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the feedback of the general plan being too long
and repetitive, and too much context/background. Community input has not been received since the draft
document put up on the website November 4th.

Opinions vs. Facts and having additional conversations with the Council, input and feedback being
opinioned and value based.

Development of the document, water issues are pervasive and have been addressed, and make sure the issue
has not expanded beyond land use, be cautious and careful in discussing. ECID’s review and concurrence
with the language.

Guidance on addressing working groups and the process, and should the Council dictate on putting groups
together on efforts, appointment, timelines, and progression.

Character Areas neighborhood descriptions vs future character areas. Neutralize descriptions, diversity
and preservation, rewrite character areas and put in appendix.

Ms. Stokman said the character areas discussed lack of community and not having opportunities to connect.
She liked the character areas because of diversity and identity of various areas in the canyon, expression
of who you are and asked citizens in the areas who their community is and describe.

Transportation language revision over the table and associated description of work.



Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – December 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary             Page 2 of 3
Economic Development should be shortened and revised and promoting is a concern. Recognition of a
broader collective. Focus on sustainability and support appropriate economic development to have
opportunity to have small businesses.

Mark Tracy, Emigration Canyon HOA water share owner, Sandy, Utah. Looked at the document, reference
to ECID, is not an entity. Ms. Davies advised the name has changed. Character areas, 1999 general plan,
page 6. Ms. Davies said not a build out limit and referenced as a general guideline based on historic work.
Nothing in a policy or plan set as a limit and do not have a law for a specific build out. Only regulations
around FCOZ regulations not specific water limitations. Mr. Tracy said there was a buildout limitation in
1999 and Emigration had a build out limit established in 1996. Mr. McNulty advised we are talking about
the general plan and these questions are more for planning and development.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding revisions and working meetings and planning
commission meetings, and potentially recommend to the Council for January 28th.

Motion: To continue discussion to January 6th and continue the public hearing to January 14th.
      Motion by: Commissioner Wallace
      2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 9:57 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – December 17, 2020 – Meeting Summary              Page 3 of 3
