       SECTION I.        The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II.       Chapter 19.15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of

Ordinances is enacted as follows in order to authorize internal accessory dwelling units in certain

residential zones and to enact related regulations.

19.15.010 Purpose.

Emigration Canyon Metro Township recognizes that Internal Accessory Dwelling Units in single-

family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall housing plan for Emigration

Canyon. The purposes of the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit standards of this code are to:

       A. Comply with pending State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory

           Dwelling Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish

           to regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

       B. A building permit may not be issued for an IADU until the applicant has provided

           written confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the IADU complies with

           all applicable water service requirements.

       C. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

           family members where independent living is desirable;

       D. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

       E. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

           difficulty finding housing in Emigration Canyon;

       F. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;

       G. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

           at a variety of stages in the life cycle;



                                                   1
       H. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

           governing development of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units; and

       I. Ensure that Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring

           property owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an IADU prior

           to renting the IADU.



19.15.020 Definitions.

"Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit" means an accessory dwelling unit created:

       A. within a primary dwelling;

       B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

unit is created; and

       C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

makes his or her legal primary residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle

registration, driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

"Primary Dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

residence of the owner of record.

19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.

   a. IADUs incorporated within the single-family residence shall be a permitted use on single-

       family home lots in primarily residential zones that require 6,000 square foot minimum lot

       sizes or greater, except where otherwise qualifying lots are designated as “ADU Restricted”

       by applicable zoning ordinance.




                                                 2
   b. In no case shall an IADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other

       attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, or other conditions of the code.



19.15.040 Number of residents.

IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four persons.

19.15.050 Parking requirements.

In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU. A property owner bears the burden of

showing by a preponderance of the evidence that sufficient parking is available. In cases where an

existing attached garage conversion is proposed to create an IADU, replacement on-site parking

spaces are required for the primary dwelling in a number equal to the parking spaces eliminated

by such IADU.

19.15.060 – Owner occupancy.

The primary dwelling or the IADU must have owner occupancy. An application for an IADU shall

include evidence of owner occupancy.

19.15.070 – Number of IADUs per lot.

Only one IADU is allowed per lot.

19.15.080 – IADU design standards.

       A. An approved building permit is required for all IADUs before an IADU is constructed,

           and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Emigration Canyon Metro

           Township Code must be met before an IADU can be rented. Existing non-compliant

           IADUs may come into compliance by receiving a permit and verifying existing work

           was done according to code.



                                                 3
       B. The design and size of an IADU shall conform to all applicable building, fire, and

           health codes, including applicable water service requirements.

       C. Conversions of an existing space to an IADU will require compliance with safety

           requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

           window wells in case of emergency, close off door(s) if needed between the IADU and

           main unit, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the IADU.

       D. IADUs will not require a separate HVAC or firewall.

       E. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

           services.

       F. Single-family residences with an IADU shall retain the same appearance as a single-

           family residence.

19.15.090: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit

Applicants for IADUs shall provide an affidavit to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District

stating that the owner of the property will live in either the primary dwelling or IADU as their

primary residence. Upon approval of the IADU by the building official, and upon the issuance of

a business license pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a Notice of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit

including the affidavit shall be recorded against the property to provide notice to a future owner of

the owner occupancy requirement for the IADU. Upon sale of the property, if the new owner

wishes to continue use of a previously approved IADU, the new owner shall be required to sign

and a new affidavit, update their information with the planning and business license departments,

and comply with current administrative IADU requirements. A copy of the recorded notice will be

provided to the applicant when completed.

19.15.100: Business licensing.



                                                 4
Prior to renting out any IADU, a business license must be obtained. That license must be

maintained and renewed annually as long as the unit is rented out.

19.15.110: Retention of single-family residence status

       A. IADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be treated as a multi-family

           residence.

       B. IADUs may not be separately metered apart from the single-family residence.

       C. IADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

19.15.120: Short-term rental use prohibited.

Units approved as IADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

consecutive days or more.

19.15.130 Remedies for Violations

In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a municipality, Emigration Canyon

Metro Township may hold a lien against a property that contains an internal accessory dwelling

unit in accordance with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-530,

if the owner of the property violates any of the provisions of that Section or any of the

provisions of this ordinance.

19.15.140 Variances.

The land use hearing officer may grant variances to the standards of this chapter in accordance

with section 19.92.040. The land use hearing officer may not grant a variance from Building Code

requirements, owner occupancy provisions, lot square footage requirements, or the number of units

allowed per lot.




                                                 5
       SECTION III.     This ordinance shall become effective fifteen days after its passage and

upon publication of the ordinance, or a summary thereof on the Utah state noticing website.




                                               6
