                                                 Planning and Development Services
                                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                 https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                   Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                               Public Meeting Agenda

                   Thursday, September 16, 2021 8:30 A.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Robert Pinon has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the
ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments
where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                               BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the January 6, and January 14, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (as needed)




September 16, 2021                                      Page 1 of 2         AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
                                  PUBLIC HEARING(S)
OAM2021-000425 - A proposed ordinance creating Chapter 19.15 of the Emigration Canyon
Town Code of Ordinances allowing for and regulating Interior Accessory Dwelling Units (IADUs)
in single-family detached dwellings. Planner: Travis Hair (Motion/Voting)

OAM2021-000426 - A proposal to amend the existing Floodplain Ordinance in Section 19.74 of
the Emigration Canyon Municipal Code. This update will replace the existing Section 19.74 with
new language that conforms with current State of Utah and FEMA requirements. Planner: Travis
Hair (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Land Use Ordinance changes after taking
comments from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant
to the planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda.
Public comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                         ADJOURN




September 16, 2021                        Page 2 of 2    AGENDA – EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



September 16, 2021                                             AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
        EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION SPECIAL WORKING MEETING
                           Wednesday, January 6, 2021 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 12 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                Public     Business                                                       Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent              Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                           Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace                         x
                                                                              Wendy Gurr                                  x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
                                                                               Kate Davies                                x
          Jim Karkut                          x
                                                                              Jim McNulty                                 x
         Robert Pinon                         x
                                                                               Adam Long                                  x
         Dale Berreth                         x
          Tim Harpst                          X


                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 6:00 p.m.
Commissioner Pinon read the Chairs Opening Statement.

    1) General Plan Review and Revisions

        Ms. Davies provided an update and advised of feedback on five main items to address in the plan.

        1. Too long and repetitive - Ms. Davies is working on reducing it. Went through the items removed
           and reference on SWOT and APAE analysis. Cut out images and pages with only a small amount
           of information to condense into fewer pages.

        2. Too much context and background - Turned more context into information boxes.

        3. Opinions vs. Facts - Larger issues to be worked through with the Council. Value statements are
           appropriate. Implementation and projections are published facts. Commissioner Karkut said he
           supports the plan, and this is a values-based document and would like to see the community
           going forward in the future. Mr. Long said this has been a long process. Recommendation to the
           Council and ball is out of the Planning Commission court unless council sends it back. Council
           has responsibility to do with it as they please. Recognize the Planning Commissioners scope of
           responsibility. Met legal obligation and additional comment is not required.


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 6, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 1 of 2
        4. Water issues – Commissioner Karkut said in favor of actions that maintain or promote water
           quality. This is an admiral goal. None of their jurisdictions can manage water quality. Should
           use words like manage, but can use the word promote, it is values based. Instead of water rights
           and quantity equality, instead maybe addressing concerns of water rights and quantity.
           Discussing challenges, maybe use considering and addressing water quality concerns.

            Recognition of issues raised by the community. Write up of recommendations have not included
            water and moved under the topic of sustainability. Character areas include a vision, main
            canyon road character area, with possible neighborhood zone. Neighborhood descriptions were
            moved to the appendix. All the language was left in that includes the neighborhood descriptions.
            Helpful to have description of each area in the body of the text, followed by the vision
            implementation. Adding additional pages in the main document is supported, modify paragraph
            instead of neighborhood descriptions included in the Main Canyon Road Character Area. Can
            be included in the glossary appendix and add a hotlink.

            Environment chapter is where water will live since it’s been pulled out of other places. Remove
            or rework build limits have been under consideration based on water access for many years
            (reference to docs where this is discussed) limitations highlighted sentence on page 128
            regarding watershed, as the figure is aged.

        5. Working groups – Could remove reference to working group. If it doesn’t make sense to keep it,
           the Council can organize the groups at a later date. Language to suggest implement working
           groups. Something will happen to implement the working group and if the council wants to say
           how this will move forward and the planning commission should say it the way they see
           appropriate.

            Land Use Work Program - Implementation of working groups is up to the Council to determine.
            Need to be conscious of avoiding requirements and need to establish a working group as
            appropriate.

            Action c – Develop a working group at the councils discretion.

            Action f - In adopting ordinances, consider working group recommendations.

            Action h – Limit rather than prohibit.

        Ms. Davies said image and map revisions aren’t in the plan yet, but should be finished by Monday,
        January 11th.

    2) Other Business Items. (As needed)

        Confirmed next meeting is on January 14th.

Please visit: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/ to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration Canyon
Metro Township General Plan.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 8:12 p.m.



Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 6, 2021 – Meeting Summary                Page 2 of 2
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
              EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                             Thursday, January 14, 2021 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 59 minutes                               *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                     & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Pinon

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
       Andrew Wallace             x           x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                     x             x
       Alex Pacanowsky                                  x
                                                                                Kate Davies                   x             x
          Jim Karkut              x           x
                                                                               Jim McNulty                    x             x
         Robert Pinon             x           x
                                                                                Adam Long                     x             x
         Dale Berreth             x           x
          Tim Harpst              x           x



                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 8:33 a.m.
Commissioner Pinon read the Electronic Meeting and Chairs Opening Statement.

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2021. (Motion/Voting)
       Election of Chair for 2021
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Pinon as Chair for 2021, Commissioner Pinon accepted that
       nomination.
              Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
              2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Election of Vice Chair for 2021
        Motion: To nominate Commissioner Wallace as Vice Chair for 2021, Commissioner Wallace
        accepted that nomination.
               Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
               2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 3
    2) Approval of the December 2, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the December 2, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Karkut
             2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Approval of the December 17, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
        Motion: To approve the December 17, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting minutes as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Karkut
              2nd by: Commissioner Berreth
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

                                            PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                        Hearings began at – 8:39 a.m.

(Continued from 11/19 and 12/17/2020) - Emigration Canyon Metro Township is considering adopting
the proposed 2020 Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan, which plans for the areas within
Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The 2020 General Plan is Emigration Canyon’s first comprehensive
plan since incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan synthesizes data and public feedback to
describe current conditions, envision Emigration Canyon’s future, and guide Emigration Canyon from
present conditions toward that desired vision. This General Plan meets the required State laws for general
planning, including elements on Land Use and Transportation. It also includes the following supplemental
elements: Introduction, Economic Development, Environment, Resilience and Infrastructure, and
Community Work Program. Planner: Kate Davies (Motion/Voting)

Please visit: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/ to view a copy of the 2020 Emigration Canyon
Metro Township General Plan.

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed general plan.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Kate Davies provided a presentation
of the updates and overview of the General Plan.

Commissioners and Staff had a brief discussion and correction regarding page 74 on the bike lanes,
correction from 40 feet wide to four feet wide and include symbols for footage, repaired bike lanes and
shoulders, Ms. Davies will confirm with engineering, and Lochner report and progress. Dropping a foot
from car lanes and added a foot to the bike lanes, with consistent 11-foot car lanes and with the shoulder a
five-foot bike lane where road width allowed.

Replacing the word budget with funding. Removing the second sentence from 3.4.2. Add Lochner report to
the Appendix E so it’s clear it isn’t just identified as the Emigration Canyon Transportation Study.

Ms. Davies explained the council wants a postcard sent to the canyon citizens and will be heard at their
February 25th meeting.



Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary              Page 2 of 3
Swap page 96 photo with cover photo, cover page to page 90 and page 90 to 96. Changes to the
transportation tables and spell checking the document.

Planning Commissioners gave thanks the Ms. Davies, MSD, GPSC, and Emigration Canyon Community
for input.

Motion: To recommend the proposed 2020 Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan, which plans
for the areas within Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The 2020 General Plan is Emigration Canyon’s
first comprehensive plan since incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan synthesizes data and
public feedback to describe current conditions, envision Emigration Canyon’s future, and guide Emigration
Canyon from present conditions toward that desired vision. This General Plan meets the required State laws
for general planning, including elements on Land Use and Transportation. It also includes the following
supplemental elements: Introduction, Economic Development, Environment, Resilience and Infrastructure,
and Community Work Program as written and modified pursuant to discussion points today and when
passed for public review, clear the draft general plan document is the one for approval to the Emigration
Canyon Council for adoption.
        Motion by: Commissioner Karkut
        2nd by: Commissioner Harpst
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Pinon motioned to adjourn the meeting, Commissioner Wallace seconded that motion.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 9:32 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 3
To:     Emigration Canyon Planning Commission and Township Council

From: Adam S. Long and Jay L. Springer

Re:     Legislative Update on Accessory Dwelling Units

Date: July 16, 2021


The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”) has prepared a proposed accessory
dwelling unit (“ADU”) ordinance for consideration by Emigration Canyon. We have reviewed
the proposed ordinance and related legislative updates and requirements. This memorandum
(1) outlines the mandatory substantive requirements to comply with state law, (2) identifies
areas where Emigration Canyon retains discretion, and (3) describes the process to follow in
enacting the ADU ordinance.

The proposed ADU ordinance satisfies the minimum statutory requirements while allowing
Emigration Canyon to retain as much regulatory authority as permitted under the new state law.

Generally speaking, any ordinance that conflicts with state law would be deemed invalid and no
effect. Taking no action therefore could result in vacuum of regulation where property owners
have more freedom with respect to ADUs than Emigration Canyon may desire.

2021 Mandatory Requirements – Allowing Certain ADUs and Prohibiting Certain Municipal
Regulation

2021 House Bill 82 (the “Bill”) was passed by the legislature and signed by the Governor in 2021.
The effective date is May 5, 2021, and the deadline for establishing conforming ordinances under
UCA 10-9a-530 is October 1, 2021.

The Bill requires “internal” ADUs (“IADUs”)to be permitted in any residential zone. 1 An internal
ADU is defined as an accessory dwelling unit created (i) within a primary dwelling, (ii) within the
footprint of the primary dwelling … at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit is created, and
(iii) for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer in UCA Section
10-9a-530(1)(a).




1
 Internal ADUs are generally more common and less intrusive than external ADUs. The Legislature has not required
external ADUs to be permitted in any zone, so Emigration Canyon may enact or retain regulations pertaining to those
ADUs.
                          257 EAST 200 SOUTH     SUITE 500     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111
                        TELEPHONE 801-413-1600   TOLL FREE 877-825-2064   FACSIMILE 801-413-1620
                                          WWW.SMITHHARTVIGSEN.COM
                                      LAND             WATER                LIFE
Page 2 of 3


The Bill allows Emigration Canyon to regulate all ADUs (including IADUs) to the extent that:

    •   Emigration Canyon may identify up to 25% of the area of its residential zones where
        internal ADUs are prohibited.
    •   Emigration Canyon may prohibit the installation of a separate utility meter.
    •   Emigration Canyon may require that IADUs be designed in a manner that does not change
        the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling.
    •   Emigration Canyon may require one additional on-site parking for an IADU – regardless
        of whether the primary dwelling is existing or newly-constructed.
    •   Emigration Canyon may prohibit creation of IADUs if:
            o The property is served by a failing septic tank; and/or
            o The lot is 6,000 square feet or less.
    •   Emigration Canyon may prohibit the rental of an IADU:
            o For a period of less than 30 consecutive days; and/or
            o If the primary dwelling is not occupied as the owner’s primary residence.


The proposed ordinance also requires:
   • The applicant to provide written confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the
       IADU will comply.
   • IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four persons.
   • IADUs shall have a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing.
   • Property owners must obtain a business license prior to renting an IADU.


ADU Ordinance Adoption

The adoption process is governed by Utah law (LUDMA) and Emigration Canyon’s own
ordinances. The ADU ordinance is a land use ordinance, so it must comply with UCA Section 10-
9a-502 and related law. The general process and order is identified below.

   1.         Drafting of proposed ordinance (MSD) – Complete.
   2.         Notice of Land Use Ordinance Hearing – 10 days prior to planning commission
              hearing.
   3.         Recommendation from planning commission to Emigration Canyon Council.
   4.         Public Meeting (hearing optional) for Council to act on planning commission
              recommendation.
              a. The Council may make any changes to the proposed ordinance after the planning
                  commission’s recommendation. A second hearing is not required.
   5.         Enactment and effective date (posting) – This must be effective no later than October
              1, 2021.
Page 3 of 3


Closing

Emigration Canyon may consider designated IADU restricted areas, which is not currently
incorporated into the ordinance. This may be done by modifying the zoning code and/or zoning
map.
       SECTION I.        The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II. Chapter 19.15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of

Ordinances is enacted as follows in order to authorize internal accessory dwelling units in certain

residential zones and to enact related regulations.

19.15.010 Purpose.

The Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) recognizes that Internal

Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall

housing plan for Emigration Canyon. The purposes of the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit

standards of this code are to:

       A. Comply with pending State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory

           Dwelling Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish

           to regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

       B. Ensure that building permits or licenses are not issued for an IADU until the applicant

           has provided written confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the IADU

           complies with all applicable water service requirements.

       C. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

           family members where independent living is desirable;

       D. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

       E. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

           difficulty finding housing in Emigration Canyon;

       F. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;




                                                 1
       G. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

           at a variety of stages in the life cycle;

       H. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

           governing development of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units; and

       I. Ensure that Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring

           property owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an IADU prior

           to renting the IADU.



19.15.020 Definitions.

"Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit" or “IADU” means an accessory dwelling unit created:

       A. within a primary dwelling;

       B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

unit is created; and

       C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Non-rental Use” means using an IADU for housing that does not include renting the unit to a

third-party. Examples that fall under this use may include housing family members, caretakers,

nannies, or other in-home employees.

“Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

makes his or her legal primary residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle

registration, driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

"Primary Dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

residence of the owner of record.

19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.



                                                   2
     a. IADUs incorporated within the single-family residence shall be a permitted use on single-

        family home lots in primarily residential zones.

     b. The lot of the Primary Dwelling must be over 6,000 square feet.

     c. In no case shall an IADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other

        attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, or other conditions of the code.

     d. There is no restriction on the size of the IADU withing the Primary Dwelling.



19.15.040 Number of residents.

IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four persons.

19.15.050 Parking requirements.

a.   In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU.

b.    A property owner bears the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that

sufficient parking is available.

c. In cases where an existing attached garage is proposed to be converted to an IADU, replacement

on-site parking spaces are required for the Primary Dwelling in a number equal to the parking

spaces eliminated by such IADU.

19.15.060 – Owner occupancy.

The Primary Dwelling or the IADU must be owner occupied as the owner’s primary residence. .

An application for an IADU shall include evidence of owner occupancy and primary residence.

19.15.070 – Number of IADUs per lot.

Only one IADU is allowed per lot.

19.15.080 – IADU standards.



                                                  3
        A. An approved building permit is required for all IADUs before an IADU is constructed.

        B. An approved building permit or an inspection is required for units already constructed,

           and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Emigration Canyon

           Municipal Code must be met before an IADU can be rented.

        C. Existing non-compliant IADUs may come into compliance by receiving a permit and

           verifying existing work was done according to code.

        D. The IADU shall comply with all applicable building, fire, and health codes, including

           applicable water service and sewer or septic requirements.

        E. Conversions of an existing space to an IADU shall require compliance with safety

           requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

           window wells in case of emergency, close off door(s) if needed between the IADU

           and main unit, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the IADUIADUs will not

           require a separate HVAC or firewall.

        F. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

           services.

        G. Single-family residences with an IADU shall retain the same appearance as a single-

           family residence.

        H. IADUs shall not be located in detached structures connected by a breezeway.

        I. No IADU may be located in a Primary Dwelling that is served by a failing septic tank.

19.15.090 : Retention of single-family residence status

       A. IADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be treated as a multi-family

          residence.

       B. IADUs shall not have a separate utility meter apart from the single-family residence.



                                                4
       C. IADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

19.15.100: Business licensing.

Renting of any IADU, requires a business license. That license must be maintained and renewed

annually as long as the unit is rented.

19.15.110: Short-term rental use prohibited.

Units approved as IADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

consecutive days or more.

19.15.120: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit

A. Upon approval of the IADU by the building official or upon the issuance of a business license

pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a Notice of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit including the

affidavit shall be recorded against the property to provide notice to a future owner of the owner

occupancy requirement for the IADU.

B. The Notice shall include an affidavit by the Owner stating that the owner of the property will

live in the Primary Dwelling as their primary residence.

C. The Notice shall include

       (i) a description of the Primary Dwelling;

       (ii) a statement that the Primary Dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling unit;

and

       (iii) a statement that the internal accessory dwelling unit may only be used in accordance

with the regulations in this Chapter.

D. Upon sale of the property, if the new owner wishes to continue use of a previously approved

IADU, the new owner shall be required to sign and a new affidavit, update their information with




                                                5
the planning and business license departments, and comply with current administrative IADU

requirements.

E. A copy of the notice will be provided to the applicant when recorded. .



19.15.130 Remedies for Violations

In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a municipality, Emigration Canyon

may hold a lien against a property that contains an internal accessory dwelling unit in accordance

with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-530, if the owner of

the property violates any of the provisions of that Section or any of the

provisions of this ordinance.

19.15.140 Non-Rental Use of IADUs

IADUs used for non-rental uses as defined in this chapter will follow the same approval process

as all other IADUs including recordation of the Affidavit and Notice except that a business license

is not required. Should an IADU used for non-rental uses later be rented, a business license must

be obtained prior to doing so.

19.15.150 Water Availability

Applications for an IADU must include submittal of a written approval from the water company

servicing the property stating that sufficient water is available for the IADU.



       SECTION III.      This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.




                                                 6
To:    Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
From: Travis Hair, MSD Planner
Date: September 8, 2021
Re:    OAM2021-000425 – Flood Damage Prevention Code Amendment


Attached is the proposed revision of Chapter 19.74 regarding flood control and flood damage
prevention. When Emigration Canyon incorporated, it adopted the majority of the Salt Lake
County Code that existed at the time including the existing flood control ordinances. This chapter
is now outdated, and the MSD staff has reviewed and drafted new language that ensures
compliance with regulations outlined by the State of Utah as well as FEMA. This ordinance is
important to create standards for future possible development in those floodplains that do exist
within Emigration Canyon. It’s also important that acceptable Best Management Practices are in
place. If not, FEMA can possibly restrict emergency funds for other types of disaster relief such
as the Earthquake this past year, fires, and other natural disasters.
A summary of what this ordinance specifically puts in place can be found in Sections 19.74.030
and 19.74.040.
It is important to note that this ordinance does not include or impact existing FEMA floodplain
maps. Those maps need updating but are outside the scope of this ordinance. The Salt Lake
County Flood Control office and MSD Stormwater Construction Department are continuing to
work with the state to secure funding for the studies needed to update those.
Recommendation:
The MSD planning staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation for the proposed ordinance to the Emigration Canyon Township Council for
their consideration and approval.


Attachments:
Proposed Chapter 19.74




              2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                          msd.utah.gov
               EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

ORDINANCE NO.:_______________                           DATE:_______________


            FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION AND CONTROL

       AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
      TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REPEALING CHAPTER 19.72 OF THE
       EMIGRATION CANYON METRO CODE AND ENACTING A
         NEW CHAPTER 19.72 TO ESTABLISH FLOODPLAIN
         DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND FLOOD DAMAGE
                        PREVENTION

                                   RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration
Canyon”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-401, et seq; and

     WHEREAS, one of the natural disaster risks that exist in Emigration
Canyon is the risk of flooding; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-701 and 10-9a-101 et
seq. the Utah Legislature delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses; and

       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon inherited and formally adopted Chapter
19.74 – Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance -of the Salt Lake County Code in
Chapter 19.74 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Code (“ECMC”); and

      WHEREAS, most of the Emigration Canyon area is designated by the
Utah Geological Survey as a high risk flood hazard area; and

      WHEREAS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”)
mandates the municipality adopt a flood control development ordinance that
adequately covers and addresses the flood control for risks that exist in Emigration
Canyon to be a member entity of the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”);
and

       WHEREAS, the current ordinance that was inherited by Emigration
Canyon, namely Chapter 19.74 of the ECMC incorporating Chapter 19.74 of the
Salt Lake County Code, has been deemed unsatisfactory by the State and FEMA



                                                                                     1
for covering and addressing Emigration Canyon’s flood damage prevention
measures due to development; and

     WHEREAS, adopting a new ordinance to conform with the regulations of
FEMA and the State will ensure Emigration Canyon ability to maintain its
membership in the National Flood Insurance Program;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED: by the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council the following ordinance amendments, repeals, and additions to
the Emigration Canyon Municipal Code of Ordinances:

   A. Chapter 19.74 is repealed in its entirety; and
   B. Chapter 19.74 is adopted in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A
   C. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen days after its passage and
      upon publication of the ordinance, or a summary thereof on the Utah state
      noticing website.



APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon, Salt Lake County, Utah
this _____day of _________ , 2021.

                   FOR THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                 BY:___________________________________
                                            Joe Smolka, Mayor


 ATTEST:

 _____________________________________
 SHERRIE SWENSEN
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER




                                                                                  2
 APPROVED AS TO FORM:


 ___________________________________
 POLLY MCLEAN
 METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING:

Councilmember Bowen voting             _______

Councilmember Brems voting             _______

Councilmember Harris voting            _______

Councilmember Hawkes voting            _______

Mayor Smolka voting                    _______


Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website
on______________________ , 2021.

Effective date of Ordinance:____________________.




                                                             3
Chapter 19.74 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

19.74.010 - Statutory Authorization.

     The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Unannotated 10-3-701 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council of Emigration Canyon, Utah does ordain as
follows:
      The Emigration Canyon Metro Township elects to comply with the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a
voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component
of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Emigration Canyon community officials have elected
to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and the
requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas
of the Incorporated Emigration Canyon Township having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA,
and that floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore,
Emigration Canyon Metro Township may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to
areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent
risk of flooding in such areas.
19.74.020 - Findings.

    1. The flood hazard areas of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township are subject to periodic
       inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
       commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
       and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
    2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that cause
       an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses
       vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood-
       proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
19.74.030 - Statement of Purpose.

    It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to
    minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
    to:

        1. Protect human life and health;

        2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control projects;

        3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding that are generally
           undertaken at the expense of the general public;
        4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

        5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and sewer mains, electric
           and telephone lines, and streets and bridges located in floodplains.

        6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood-
           prone areas in such a manner as to minimize blight to future flood-prone areas;

        7. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.

19.74.040 - Methods of Reducing Flood Losses.

    In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following methods:
         1. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood,
            or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
         2. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
            protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
         3. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
            barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
         4. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage;
         5. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
            floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.

19.74.050 – Definitions

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted to give
them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable
application.

100-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms “100-hundred-year
flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood” are synonymous. The term does not imply that the flood
will necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance requirements may
apply.

100-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a
1-percent-annual-chance flood.

500-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The term does not imply
that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500 years and mandatory flood insurance requirement
generally does not apply.
500-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a
0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.

Accessory Structure is a structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure. Its use
is incidental to the use of the principal structure the ownership of the accessory structure is the same
owner as of the principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential structure of low value
that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools, materials, or equipment. No human
habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.

Addition is any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square footage of an
existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical
additions added on top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.

Alluvial Fan Flooding means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform that
originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment
transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

Apex means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the major
stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

Appurtenant Structure—see Accessory Structure.

Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-percent-
annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.

Area of Shallow Flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of
1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

Area of Special Flood-Related Erosion Hazard is the land within a community that is most likely to be
subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood
Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard
area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.

Area of Special Flood Hazard is the land in the flood plain within a community subject to a 1 percent or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is
refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE,
or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term “special flood hazard area” is synonymous in meaning
with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.

Base Flood means the flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.

Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event. It
is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of the base flood at
pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on the
FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-
V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent
chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.

Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. A
walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

Best Available Data is existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and reflected on an
effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood hazard information
supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, state,
other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be reasonably used by the
community.

Breakaway Wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces, without causing
damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the
lowest floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water loads without causing
collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion of the building of the supporting pilings
or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE Zones.

Building—see Structure.

Channelization means the artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a stream
channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as channelization.

Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the codification of the general and permanent rules published in
the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would,
upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus
result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The
letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be
recognized by FEMA.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (CLOMR-F) is FEMA's comment on a proposed
structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if
built as proposed, would be removed from the floodplain.

Crawlspace means an under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more than 4
feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation, designed with proper openings that
equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation. Reference: 19.74.060 H

Deed Restriction refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some respect.
Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and conditions. For example, they may limit
the density of buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or prevent buildings from
being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
Detached Garage is a building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle parking for up to
four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation or conducting business,
or has multiple stories, then the building is not considered a detached garage under the NFIP.

Development means any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, demolition, excavation
or drilling operations, or storage either temporary or permanent of equipment or materials.

Elevated Building is a non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground level by means of
pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and
D, an “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters.

Enclosure refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building. Enclosures
below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage.

Erosion means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other natural
agents.

Existing Construction refers to structures for which the “start of construction” commenced before the
effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. It may also be
referred to as Existing Structures.

Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.

Existing Structures—see Existing Construction.

Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means the preparation of additional
sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be
affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or
the pouring of concrete pads).

FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Fill refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure, property, or
portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site, regardless of where the material was
obtained from. The common practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered
material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing conditions. Any fill placed or
used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not deemed as fill.

Flood or Flooding means:
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
            2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
            3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in this
                ordinance and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally
                dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the
                path of the current.
            4. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a
                result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
                anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a
                natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of
                nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
                unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined in this ordinance.

Flood Insurance Manual is the document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to write flood
insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions, policy rates, coverage
and limitations, application and insurance policy forms.

Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the Administrator
has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.

Flood Insurance Study (FIS) or Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.

Floodplain Development Permit is a community issued permit or document that is used for any
development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used to address the
proposed development to ensure compliance with the community’s ordinance.

Floodplain or Flood-Prone Area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).

Floodplain Management means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations.

Floodplain Management Regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes,
health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for flood damage prevention and
reduction.

Flood Opening refers to an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters to
automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.

Flood Protection System means those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to
reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to reduce the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or
dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both private and public, that have been certified by
a professional engineer or firm in which the certification shows that the levee have met and continue to
meet the minimum regulatory standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (44 CFR 65.10).

Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either be
accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels that
need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures applied to a structure
that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the
structure or area.

Floodway—(Regulatory Floodway) - means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Floodway encroachment lines mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state, and
local flood plain maps.

Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of flood
plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway
conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.

Functionally Dependent Use means a development that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking facilities, port facilities that
are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and repair
facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.

Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade is
utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade and the depth of
the AO Zone. Reference: 19.74.060 L: Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones).

Historic Structure means any structure that is:
    1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
        Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting
        the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
    2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
        historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the
        Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
    3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation
        programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
    4. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
       preservation programs that have been certified either:
           a. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
           b. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.

Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM. A
LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued because a property or
structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, when the property or structure is
actually on natural high ground above the BFE.

Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion of the
effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, or the
SFHA.

Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to an effective
FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or structure above the
BFE.

Levee means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as to
provide protection from temporary flooding.

Levee System means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in accordance
with sound engineering practices.

Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG) means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the lowest
point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs,
and basement windows.

Lowest Floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements
of Section 60.3.

Manufactured Home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to
the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”;
however, a manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential use.

Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into
two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

Map means the FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
Mean Sea Level means, for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929,
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which BFEs shown on a community's
FIRM are referenced.

Mixed Use Structures are structures with both a business and a residential component, but where the
area used for business is less than 50 percent of the total floor area of the structure.

New Construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.

New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.

No-Rise Certifications are formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer licensed
to practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of a base flood event.

Physical Map Revision (PMR) is FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are physically revised
and republished.

Recreational Vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a) Built on a single chassis;
(b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(d) Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, brook, creek,
etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.

Section 1316 refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, which
provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the Administrator finds has
been declared by a duly constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or local floodplain
management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property owner, and remains with
the property even after a change of ownership.

Special Flood Hazard Area—see Area of Special Flood Hazard.
Start of Construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include
the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of
the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.

Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert, bridge,
dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.

Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
(1) A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a
permanent site;
(2) A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a structure: built
on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent
foundation); or
(3) A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that is
regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws.
For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other
similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.

Substantial Damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring
the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.

Substantial Improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.

The term does not, however, include:
    1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
       sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been identified by the local code enforcement
       official and are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
    2. Any alteration of a “historic structure”, if the alteration will not preclude the structure's
       continued designation as a “historic structure.”

Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
regulation. Reference: 19.74.050 E. Variance Procedures
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sections 44 CFR
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
that documentation is provided.

Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies, such as the 1-
percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal or riverine areas.

Watercourse means the channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream, river, ditch
or other similar feature.

19.74.050 - General Provisions.

    A. Lands to Which This Ordinance Applies

        The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within the
        jurisdiction of The Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

        1. Annexation
           When the community annexes any land from a neighboring jurisdiction, Emigration Canyon
           Metro Township will manage and regulate the annexed land under this ordinance.

    B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard

        The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
        scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Salt Lake County and
        Incorporated Communities," dated June 19, 2020, with accompanying FIRMs, and any revisions
        thereto are hereby automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
        ordinance.

    C. Establishment of Development Permit

        A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
        of this ordinance.

    D. Fees

        Standard fees may be charged for applications under these provisions. Additionally, fees for any
        engineering reviews will be billed to the applicant.

    E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions

        This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants,
        or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement,
        covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
        restrictions shall prevail.
F. Interpretation

     In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:
     1. Considered as minimum requirements;
     2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
     3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.

G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for
   regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare
   occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-made
   or natural causes.

     This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
     permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall
     not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any
     flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully
     made thereunder.

H. Severability

     If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
     court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.

I.   Compliance

     No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes
     or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with
     the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the
     Emigration Canyon Metro Township from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
     remedy any violations.

J.   Stop Work Order

     1. Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community official discovers any
        work or activity regulated by this ordinance being performed in a manner contrary to the
        provision of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator is authorized to issue a stop work
        order.

     2. Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the
        property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance
        of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state
        the reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
        resume.

     3. Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having been served
        with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
           violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by local or state law
           including but not limited to the penalties outlined in XX.XXX.XXX, J. Penalties for
           Noncompliance.

   K. Penalties for Noncompliance

       In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulation, to qualify for the
       sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt floodplain management
       regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of Section 60. “These regulations must
       include effective enforcement provisions.” In accordance with Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44,
       Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulations, “These regulations must be legally-enforceable, applied
       uniformly throughout the community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone
       (i.e. mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that the
       regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes.”

       Therefore:

       No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered
       without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
       Violation of the provisions of this ordinance by failure to comply with any of its requirements
       (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions)
       shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with
       any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $ 10,000.00 or
       imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both, for each violation assessed daily, and in
       addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
       prevent the Emigration Canyon Metro Township from taking such other lawful action as is
       necessary to prevent or remedy any violation

19.74.060 Administration

   A. Designation of the Floodplain Administrator

       The Director of Planning and Development Services or Their Designee is hereby appointed the
       Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and
       other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
       management.

   B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator

       Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to,
       the following:

           1. Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when possible and
              increase the community’s resistance to future disasters.

           2. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of
              this ordinance, including the actual elevation of the lowest floor (including basement or
              crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved structures and any floodproofing
    certificates, including the data supporting such certificates.

3. Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate the
   boundaries of the SFHAs to which this ordinance applies, including, but not limited to,
   the FIRM.

4. Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building site,
   including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably
   safe from flooding.

5. Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption
   of this ordinance.

6. Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
   governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
   Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973) from
   which prior approval is required.

7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
   watercourse is maintained.

8. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Agency
   which is State of Utah Engineers Stream Alteration office, prior to any alteration or
   relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.

9. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas
   of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
   mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make
   the necessary interpretation.

10. When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator shall
    obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data available from a
    federal, state, or other source including data provided by the applicant, in order to
    administer the provisions of this ordinance.

11. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial
    improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-
    30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
    effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
    anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
    more than 1.00* feet at any point within the community unless the community has
    adopted higher standard options.

12. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP Regulations, a
    community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the
    community’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by
    more than 1.00* foot, provided that the community first meets the requirements of
           Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA’s CLOMR process.

       13. If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse effect on the
           BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures, technical justification
           for the proposed development shall be submitted and the community may require a
           CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit approval or as a requirement of
           the permit.

C. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data

       1. The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR within 6
          months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR from FEMA or
          when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries, or modified
          BFE.

       2. The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data to
          support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees
          to FEMA. The property owner or developer is responsible for submitting the CLOMR and
          LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data to FEMA if requested during the
          review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR is issued.

       3. The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community
          Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the
          applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this
          ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local laws.

D. Permit Procedures
      1. Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
          Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to:

               a. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                  elevation of proposed landscape alterations.

               b. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                  elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
                  manufactured homes.

               c. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.

               d. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement
                  and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved structures, if applicable;

               e. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any nonresidential structure
                  (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.

               f.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the
                    nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
                    floodproofing criteria of this ordinance and the NFIP Regulations.
              g. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be
                 altered or relocated because of proposed development, if applicable.

              h. At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for issuance of
                 floodplain development permits.

              i.   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated documents
                   shall become property of the community and a permanent record.

       2. Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be
          based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following relevant factors:

              a. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.

              b. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and
                 the effect of such damage on the individual owner.

              c. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
                 others.

              d. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
                 development.

              e. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
                 emergency vehicles.

              f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions
                   including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and
                   facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems.

              g. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of
                 the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the
                 site.

              h. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable.

              i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion
                   damage, for the proposed use.

              j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.

E. Variance Procedures

       1. The Appeal Authority or Variance Authority, as established by the community, shall hear
          and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance
          after a floodplain development permit has been denied.
          a. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Authority may
             appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.

          b. The Appeal Authority, as established by the community, shall hear and render
             judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
             requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
             Administrator in the enforcement of administration of this ordinance.

          c. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an
             appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State Coordinating Agency
             upon issuing a variance.

          d. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements
             to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and
             surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood
             level, providing the relevant factors in this chapter have been fully considered.
             As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification
             required for issuing the variance increases.

          e. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
             ordinance, the Appeal Authority may attach such conditions to the granting of
             variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
             ordinance.

          f.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in
               flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.

          g. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures
             upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
             preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the
             variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
             design of the structure. The term ‘‘substantial improvement’’ does not include
             any alteration of a structure or facility listed on the National Register of
             Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.

2. Prerequisites for granting variances:

          a. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
             minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief. Variances
             shall only be issued upon:

                i.    Showing a good and sufficient cause.

               ii.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
                      exceptional hardship to the applicant.

               iii.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
                      increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
                        extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
                        victimization of the public, conflict with existing local laws or
                        ordinances, considers the need of ingress and egress during times of
                        floods, and does not jeopardize first responders’ health and welfare.

             b. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
               the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below
               the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
               increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.

             c. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial
                improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
                functionally dependent use provided that:

                  i.    The criteria outlined in 19.74.050 Variance Procedures are met; and

                  ii.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
                        minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
                        threats to public safety.

19.74.060 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction

A. General Standards

   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required for all new
   construction and substantial improvements:

       1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified)
          and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
          structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects
          of buoyancy.

       2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods
          and practices that minimize flood damage.

       3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
          materials resistant to flood damage.

       4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
          electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
          service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
          entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.

       5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or
          eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.

       6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or
          eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the
           systems into flood waters.

       7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid impairment to
          them or contamination from them during flooding.

B. Substantial Improvement

   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
   building or structure, if the cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50
   percent, unless a higher standard option is selected below, of the market value of the
   structure only (not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or
   repair is started then the work shall be considered as substantial improvement. If the
   structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
   improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. For Substantial Damage,
   refer to 19.74.060 C. The term does not, however, include either:

       1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health,
          sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official and that are the
          minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.

       2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not preclude
          the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.

C. Substantial Damage

   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost
   of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of
   the market value of the structure only, unless a higher standard option is selected, before
   the damage occurred. This term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage
   that equals or exceeds 50 percent of the structure’s market value regardless of the actual
   repair work performed. When a structure or building has been determined as substantially
   damaged, any work or repair on said structure or building will be considered as substantial
   improvement and will be required to meet the development requirements set forth within
   this ordinance for substantial improvement.

D. Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination

   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
   alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
   rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
   structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the applicable community
   officials and staff, shall:

       1. Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an appraisal of the
          market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the building or
          structure only, not of land and building, before the start of construction of the
          proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
          shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
           made.

       2. Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged
          building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements and
          repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure.

       3. Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial
          improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination requires
          evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as specified in
          19.74.060 sections B and C.

       4. Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference when making
          any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial Damage.

       5. The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is proposed as
          the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore, the determination
          of the cost of the improvement should consider all costs of all phases of the work
          before issuance of the first permit.

       6. Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes substantial
          improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance with the flood,
          this ordinance is required.

E. Residential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the
   lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the BFE, unless a freeboard option is noted
   below. If a freeboard option is noted, new construction and substantial improvement shall
   have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the freeboard elevation. A registered
   professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the
   Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this ordinance are satisfied.

F. Nonresidential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other
   nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to
   the base flood level, unless a freeboard option is noted below, or together with attendant
   utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
   watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
   components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
   effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
   review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
   the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
   practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification that includes the
   specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed
   shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building
   changes in the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be
   used when determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of this
   ordinance. As such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be
   required to be brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of
   this ordinance.

G. Enclosures

   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the lowest
   floor that are to be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area
   other than a basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
   equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
   floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
   professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

       1. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than 1 square inch
          for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

       2. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade.

       3. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
          devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

   The development and construction of the structure must conform with the provision in
   FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1 and 2. Certification and
   documentation from a professional, licensed engineer or architect is required if the
   structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE.

H. Crawlspace

   New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-grade (below
   grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and meets or exceeds
   the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not
   limited to the following:

       1. The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and adequately
          anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
          resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
          buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed
          in areas with flood velocities greater than 5 feet per second unless the design is
          reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a registered architect or
          professional engineer.

       2. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have openings
          that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
          floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more than 1 foot
          above the LAG.

       3. The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization of
          hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. To
            achieve this, a minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is required per 1 square
            foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.

        4. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials resistant
           to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the crawlspace used
           to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation, piers, or other materials that
           extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in particular, must either be placed above the BFE
           or sealed from floodwaters.

        5. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the BFE
           or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system
           components during flood conditions.

        6. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2 feet
           below the LAG.

        7. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior grade
           of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher floor
           cannot exceed 4 feet at any point.

        8. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the
           interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a
           reasonable time after a flood event.

        9. Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance premiums
           than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with the interior
           elevation at or above the LAG.

I.   Manufactured Homes

        1. Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's
           FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood
           damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
           elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods
           of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
           ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and local
           anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.

        2. Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
           Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites outside of a
           manufactured home park or subdivision;) in a new manufactured home park or
           subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
           or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured
           home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a
           permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
           elevated to or above the BFE, unless a higher standard option was selected, and be
           securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
           collapse, and lateral movement.
         3. In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to be placed or
            substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be elevated so
            that the lowest floor is at or above the BFE, unless a higher standard option was
            selected; or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in
            height above grade and securely anchored.

J.   Recreation Vehicles

     Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the
     community's FIRM either:

         1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days unless the community has
            elected a higher standard option and be fully licensed and ready for highway use;

                   a. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
                      system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
                      security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.

         2. Or meet the permit requirements of 19.74.050 D: Permit Procedures, and the
            elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this section.

K. Standards for Subdivision Proposals

         1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this ordinance.

         2. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
            hazards.

         3. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of
            manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit
            requirements of this ordinance.

         4. BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
            development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, or whichever is lesser.

         5. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
            hazards.

         6. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
            water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.

L. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   Located within the SFHAs established in 19.74.050 A, Lands to Which this Ordinance Applies,
   are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood hazards associated
   with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
   where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
   flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
       1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have
           the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
           least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at
           least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the community has elected a
           freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation must be elevated above the
           highest adjacent grade above the depth number specified in feet on the
           community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified) plus the
           freeboard height option selected below.

       2. All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential structures:

           a. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent
              grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's
              FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the community has
              elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation must be elevated
              above the highest adjacent grade above the depth number specified in feet on
              the community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified) plus the
              freeboard height option selected below; or

           b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below
              the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
              impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having
              the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of
              buoyancy.

       3. A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the
          Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this Section.

       4. Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on
          slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.

M. Floodways

   Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood
   waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
   provisions shall apply:

       1. Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level more
          than 1 foot.

       2. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
          improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
   unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
   performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
   encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet, unless higher
   standard option selected, in flood levels within the community during the
   occurrence of the base flood discharge.


3. All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
   flood hazard reduction provisions in this ordinance.

4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP Regulations, a
   community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway
   that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community first applies
   for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA
