                       Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
                              Staff/Public Meeting Agenda
                                                September 28, 2021
                                                     7:00 PM

                                              Virtual Meeting Via Zoom

                                      https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408

                                      The Public May Attend Meetings
                         The Meeting May Be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute

Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(5) the undersigned, as Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the electronic meetings of the Council will present a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

       The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under a “Moderate Level of Transmission” alert
stage for the COVID-19 pandemic; and

       The regular meeting place for the Council (the UFA Fire Station in the Canyon) does not have sufficient
space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing to keep people safe from infection.

        This written determination shall expire 30 days from today. This meeting will not have a physical anchor
location. All attendees will connect remotely via Zoom.com (https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408).

                                           −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Upon request with three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative formats, etc.).
For assistance, please call 385-468-7130 – TTY 711.

                           The Public is Invited and Welcome to Attend the Staff Meeting


                                                 STAFF MEETING


         1.     Agenda Items (Discussion)

         2.     Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan Update (Discussion)

         3.     Discussion Regarding Sinkhole on Sunnyvale (Discussion)
       4.   Discussion on Possible Bond for Road Work (Discussion)

       5.   Emigration Canyon Metro Township Project Update (Discussion)

       6.   River Restoration Update (Discussion)



                                             PUBLIC MEETING

       1.    Welcome and Determine Quorum:

             Joe Smolka, Mayor
             Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
             David Brems, Council Member
             Gary Bowen, Council Member
             Catherine Harris, Council Member

       2.    Pledge of Allegiance

       3.    Recognize Visiting Officials

       4.    Public Hearing: None

8:00   5.    Citizen Public Input

            (Individuals wishing to comment must access the meeting using the Zoom.com link above by the
            beginning of the “Citizen Comment” period. If an individual is unable to attend the meeting, they may
            email their comments to nwatt@slco.org to have them read into the record.)

                   (a)     Council Member Bowen
                   (b)     Citizens


       6.    Reports from other Municipal Providers:

8:05         6.1   Emigration Canyon Community Council – Bill Tobey, Chair

8:10         6.2   Unified Police Department – Office Jake Elsasser

8:15         6.3   Unified Fire Authority – Captain Michael Conn

       7.    Council Business:

8:20         7.1    Ratification of Resolution No. 21-08-01 Cancelling the Emigration Canyon Metro
                    Township November 2, 2021, Local Election and Determining the Unopposed Declared
                    Candidates to be Elected to the Metro Township Council (Discussion/Motion)

8:25         7.2   Ordinance No. 21-09-01 Adopting Title 19, Chapter 15 to Regulate Internal
                   Accessory Dwelling Units (Motion/Discussion) – Travis Hair, Planner, MSD

8:35         7.3   Ordinance No. 21-09-02 Repealing Chapter 19.72 of the Emigration Canyon Metro
                   Township Code and Enacting a New Chapter 19.72 to Establish Floodplain
                   Development Standards and Flood Damage Prevention (Motion/Discussion) –
                   Travis Hair, Planner, MSD
8:45         7.4   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) Bond Agreement (Motion/Discussion)
                   – Mayor Smolka

9:00         7.5   Emigration Canyon Metro Township Administrator Position (Motion/ Discussion) – Council
                   Member Harris and Council Member Hawkes

9:10         7.6   Consideration to Amend the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meetings
                   Scheduled for November 23, 2021, and December 28, 2021 (Motion/ Discussion)

9:15         7.7   Enforcement of the Noise Ordinance (Motion/Discussion)

9:30         7.8   Legal Issues (Motion/Discussion) – Polly McLean, Legal Counsel

9:35         7.9   Budget Items:

                   (a)    Approval of Expenditures (Motion/Discussion)
                   (b)    Consideration of Unified Fire Authority’s (UFA) Request for Reimbursement for
                          COVID-19 Expenditures (Motion/Discussion)
                   (b)    Other Budget Items (Motion/Discussion)

9:40         7.10 Consideration of Minutes (Motion/Discussion)

                   (a)    June 22, 2021
                   (b)    July 27, 2021
                   (c)    August 24, 2021

        8.   Council Member Reports:

9:45         8.1 Council Member Brems

                   (a)    Unified Police Department & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
                   (b)    Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission

9:50         8.2 Council Member Bowen

                   (a)    Unified Fire Authority & Unified Fire Service Area
                   (b)    Salt Lake County Animal Services Advisory Board

9:55         8.3 Council Member Harris

                   (a)    Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
                   (b)    Watershed Plan

10:00        8.4 Deputy Mayor Hawkes

                   (a)    Website
                   (b)    CodeRED
                   (c)    Restrooms
                   (d)    Strava Data

10:05        8.5 Mayor Smolka

                   (a)    Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                   (b)    Landfill Council
                   (c)    Legislative Update
        9.     Other Announcements:

        10.    Future Metro Township Council Agenda Items:

               10.1 Noise Ordinance

               10.2 Night Sky Ordinance

10:10   11.    Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Topic: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meeting
Time: September 28, 2021, 07:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

Join Zoom Meeting
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408


Meeting ID: 833 2845 1408
One tap mobile
+16699009128,,83328451408# US (San Jose)
+12532158782,,83328451408# US (Tacoma)
                                             Emigration Canyon Monthly Report August 2021
                                             Calls for service: 59   Initial Reports: 9


Report Date:           Case Number:           Offense:               Location:

08/03/21               21-101395              Traffic Accident       5070 E Emigration Canyon Rd
A vehicle made a right hand turn in front of a bicyclist heading down the canyon, the bicyclist was unable to
stop in time and ran into the rear of the vehicle. The bicyclist later found he had sustained a concussion &
broken rib from the accident. The driver of the vehicle was at fault for failing to yield to the bicyclist, he was
cited for the violation.
08/06/21               21-102856              Transient Problem      1900 N Pinecrest Canyon Rd
The complainant advised of a homeless looking male seen walking down Pinecrest Canyon whom he believed
may have sent up a camp in the canyon. The male party was located, he claimed to have hiked there from Red
Butte Canyon or City Creek and was walking back down to Salt Lake City. The male party didn’t have a history
or warrants and was sent on his way.
08/09/21               21-104143              Theft                  178 N Silver Oak Rd
The complainant had prescription pills stolen from his residence while several people were there working. No
suspect leads currently.
08/11/21               21-104716              Suspicious Activity    5252 E Emigration Canyon Rd
The complainant observed two people dressed in all black clothing hanging around her vehicle at about 4:43
AM. The two suspects were in her yard and took off running westbound down the canyon. The area was
checked, the suspects were not located.
08/15/21               21-106410              Suspicious Activity    5215 E Pioneer Fork Rd
The complainant reporting hearing a traffic accident somewhere above his residence. The area was checked,
and nothing was located at this time.
08/16/21               21-106738              Traffic Accident       588 N Emigration Canyon Rd
This is a single car traffic accident where the vehicle had driven off the roadway to the right and struck the
cement barricade. No injuries. This occurred on the eastside of Little Mountain.
08/16/21               21-106942              911 Hang Up            4990 E Trails End Way
This was an accidental 911 hang up, it was found the homeowners cell phone overheated while she was
mowing the lawn and kept calling 911.
08/30/21               21-112922              Conservation           702 N Emigration Canyon Rd
We received a call about an injured deer that had been hit by an unknown blue sedan near this location. Upon
arrival the officer observed the deer had a broken leg and was unable to move. The deer had to put down.
The involved vehicle fled the scene, and we have no further information or witnesses.
08/30/21             21-112608            Trespass             2348 N Pinecrest Canyon Rd
The complainant reported a neighbor has been trespassing on his property and requested he be contacted
and trespassed from his property.
UFA
                UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY

                                   UFA Liaison Report for September

   •   Recruitment efforts: UFA had 779 register to take the initial written test with 448 actually testing.
       92 of those are now moving forward in the process that includes an oral interview board and physical
       aptitude testing. Once the top candidates are chosen, a background check will be begin.

   •   Construction update: Station 102 in Magna will be demolished in the next two months with the
       crew temporarily moving to Station 111 the end of September while construction of a new station is
       completed. Property has been purchased for station 251 construction in Eagle Mountain and UFA is
       working with Eagle Mountain City on a ground lease agreement for a new location for Station 253.

   •   Deployments: UFA sent seven personnel as part of a taskforce to northern California in late August
       to help with several wildfires there. They joined with five other agencies to make up two task forces.
       UFA had many more interested in going, but it was decided to limit it to seven to ensure full
       coverage on the home front.

   •   UFA Wildland update: In addition to helping with several EMAC requests, August was very active
       for the UFA Wildland. Crews have responded to fires in Montana, California and Idaho. Locally
       they have fought the Parleys Canyon Fire and worked with our communities on fuels mitigation. To
       get a better idea of how our crews work on wildfires locally you can visit the UFA YouTube page
       and view a video that our team produced that followed our crew in Parley’s Canyon for a day.

   •   Passings: Retired Captain Chad Hancock passed away August 11 at age 48. Hancock was a US
       Navy Nuclear Engineer for 7 years prior to joining UFA, where he worked for 17 more years,
       retiring in 2014. The memorial service was held August 21.

       Retired Captain Jack Cowdell who worked with Salt Lake County from 1963 to 1993 passed away
       August 18th. His services will be held August 30.


Other information

   •   UFA Retirements: After serving the communities of UFA for 20 years, Firefighter Paramedic
       Jason Smith retired on August 16. Jason’s last assignment was with Station 125 in Midvale.

       Engineer Vance McKeen retired from the department on August 1 after 20 years of service. Vance
       last worked with Station 124 in Riverton.

Respectfully submitted,

Captain Michael Conn
UFA Liaison to Emigration Canyon
Cell: 801.809.2210
Mconn@unifiedfire.org
                 EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH


ORDINANCE NO. 2021-09-01                                                    DATE: 09-28-2021


   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING TITLE 19, CHAPTER 15 TO REGULATE INTERNAL
                    ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS


        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township recognizes that Internal Accessory
Dwelling Units in single-family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall housing
plan for Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
       WHEREAS, State of Utah legislation allows for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish to regulate certain
requirements of the dwellings;
        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to ensure that building permits
or licenses are not issued for an IADU until the applicant has provided written confirmation from
the applicable water supplier that the IADU complies with all applicable water service
requirements.
        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to allow opportunities for
property owners to provide social or personal support for family members where independent
living is desirable and to provide for affordable housing opportunities;
        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to preserve the character of
single-family neighborhoods by providing standards governing development of Internal Accessory
Dwelling Units; and
        WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to ensure that Internal
Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring property owners to obtain a business
license and a building permit for an IADU prior to renting the IADU.
      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission noticed and conducted a public hearing on
September 16, 2021, forwarded a recommendation to the Metro Township Council;
       WHEREAS, legal notice was properly published;
       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Town Council ("Council)
met in a regular session on September 28, 2021 to consider this Ordinance;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
that:
         Section 1. Adopt. Title 19, Chapter 15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code
         is hereby adopted as indicated in Attachment A.

         Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.

                PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 28th Day of September 2021.



                                                EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP



                                                      By:
                                                             Joe Smolka, Mayor

ATTEST



Sherrie Swensen
Metro Township Clerk

Voting

Mayor Smolka voting                    _____
Deputy Mayor Hawkes                    _____
Council Member Brems                   _____
Council Member Harris                  _____
Council Member Bowen                   _____




Attachment A - Title 19, Chapter 15
       SECTION I.        The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II. Chapter 19.15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of

Ordinances is enacted as follows in order to authorize internal accessory dwelling units in certain

residential zones and to enact related regulations.

19.15.010 Purpose.

The Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) recognizes that Internal

Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall

housing plan for Emigration Canyon. The purposes of the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit

standards of this code are to:

       A. Comply with pending State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory

           Dwelling Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish

           to regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

       B. Ensure that building permits or licenses are not issued for an IADU until the applicant

           has provided written confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the IADU

           complies with all applicable water service requirements.

       C. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

           family members where independent living is desirable;

       D. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

       E. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

           difficulty finding housing in Emigration Canyon;

       F. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;




                                                 1
       G. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

           at a variety of stages in the life cycle;

       H. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

           governing development of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units; and

       I. Ensure that Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring

           property owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an IADU prior

           to renting the IADU.



19.15.020 Definitions.

"Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit" or “IADU” means an accessory dwelling unit created:

       A. within a primary dwelling;

       B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

unit is created; and

       C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Non-rental Use” means using an IADU for housing that does not include renting the unit to a

third-party. Examples that fall under this use may include housing family members, caretakers,

nannies, or other in-home employees.

“Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

makes his or her legal primary residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle

registration, driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

"Primary Dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

residence of the owner of record.

19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.



                                                   2
     a. IADUs incorporated within the single-family residence shall be a permitted use on single-

        family home lots in primarily residential zones.

     b. The lot of the Primary Dwelling must be over 6,000 square feet.

     c. In no case shall an IADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other

        attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, or other conditions of the code.

     d. There is no restriction on the size of the IADU withing the Primary Dwelling.



19.15.040 Number of residents.

IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four persons.

19.15.050 Parking requirements.

a.   In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU.

b.    A property owner bears the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that

sufficient parking is available.

c. In cases where an existing attached garage is proposed to be converted to an IADU, replacement

on-site parking spaces are required for the Primary Dwelling in a number equal to the parking

spaces eliminated by such IADU.

19.15.060 – Owner occupancy.

The Primary Dwelling or the IADU must be owner occupied as the owner’s primary residence. .

An application for an IADU shall include evidence of owner occupancy and primary residence.

19.15.070 – Number of IADUs per lot.

Only one IADU is allowed per lot.

19.15.080 – IADU standards.



                                                  3
        A. An approved building permit is required for all IADUs before an IADU is constructed.

        B. An approved building permit or an inspection is required for units already constructed,

           and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Emigration Canyon

           Municipal Code must be met before an IADU can be rented.

        C. Existing non-compliant IADUs may come into compliance by receiving a permit and

           verifying existing work was done according to code.

        D. The IADU shall comply with all applicable building, fire, and health codes, including

           applicable water service and sewer or septic requirements.

        E. Conversions of an existing space to an IADU shall require compliance with safety

           requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

           window wells in case of emergency, close off door(s) if needed between the IADU

           and main unit, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the IADUIADUs will not

           require a separate HVAC or firewall.

        F. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

           services.

        G. Single-family residences with an IADU shall retain the same appearance as a single-

           family residence.

        H. IADUs shall not be located in detached structures connected by a breezeway.

        I. No IADU may be located in a Primary Dwelling that is served by a failing septic tank.

19.15.090 : Retention of single-family residence status

       A. IADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be treated as a multi-family

          residence.

       B. IADUs shall not have a separate utility meter apart from the single-family residence.



                                                4
       C. IADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

19.15.100: Business licensing.

Renting of any IADU, requires a business license. That license must be maintained and renewed

annually as long as the unit is rented.

19.15.110: Short-term rental use prohibited.

Units approved as IADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

consecutive days or more.

19.15.120: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit

A. Upon approval of the IADU by the building official or upon the issuance of a business license

pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a Notice of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit including the

affidavit shall be recorded against the property to provide notice to a future owner of the owner

occupancy requirement for the IADU.

B. The Notice shall include an affidavit by the Owner stating that the owner of the property will

live in the Primary Dwelling as their primary residence.

C. The Notice shall include

       (i) a description of the Primary Dwelling;

       (ii) a statement that the Primary Dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling unit;

and

       (iii) a statement that the internal accessory dwelling unit may only be used in accordance

with the regulations in this Chapter.

D. Upon sale of the property, if the new owner wishes to continue use of a previously approved

IADU, the new owner shall be required to sign and a new affidavit, update their information with




                                                5
the planning and business license departments, and comply with current administrative IADU

requirements.

E. A copy of the notice will be provided to the applicant when recorded. .



19.15.130 Remedies for Violations

In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a municipality, Emigration Canyon

may hold a lien against a property that contains an internal accessory dwelling unit in accordance

with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-530, if the owner of

the property violates any of the provisions of that Section or any of the

provisions of this ordinance.

19.15.140 Non-Rental Use of IADUs

IADUs used for non-rental uses as defined in this chapter will follow the same approval process

as all other IADUs including recordation of the Affidavit and Notice except that a business license

is not required. Should an IADU used for non-rental uses later be rented, a business license must

be obtained prior to doing so.

19.15.150 Water Availability

Applications for an IADU must include submittal of a written approval from the water company

servicing the property stating that sufficient water is available for the IADU.



       SECTION III.      This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.




                                                 6
               EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

ORDINANCE NO.:_______________
               2021-09-02                                    September 28, 2021
                                                        DATE:_______________


            FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION AND CONTROL

       AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
      TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REPEALING CHAPTER 19.72 OF THE
       EMIGRATION CANYON METRO CODE AND ENACTING A
         NEW CHAPTER 19.72 TO ESTABLISH FLOODPLAIN
         DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND FLOOD DAMAGE
                        PREVENTION

                                   RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration
Canyon”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-401, et seq; and

     WHEREAS, one of the natural disaster risks that exist in Emigration
Canyon is the risk of flooding; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-701 and 10-9a-101 et
seq. the Utah Legislature delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses; and

       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon inherited and formally adopted Chapter
19.74 – Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance -of the Salt Lake County Code in
Chapter 19.74 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Code (“ECMC”); and

      WHEREAS, most of the Emigration Canyon area is designated by the
Utah Geological Survey as a high risk flood hazard area; and

      WHEREAS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”)
mandates the municipality adopt a flood control development ordinance that
adequately covers and addresses the flood control for risks that exist in Emigration
Canyon to be a member entity of the National Flood Insurance Program (“NFIP”);
and

       WHEREAS, the current ordinance that was inherited by Emigration
Canyon, namely Chapter 19.74 of the ECMC incorporating Chapter 19.74 of the
Salt Lake County Code, has been deemed unsatisfactory by the State and FEMA



                                                                                     1
for covering and addressing Emigration Canyon’s flood damage prevention
measures due to development; and

     WHEREAS, adopting a new ordinance to conform with the regulations of
FEMA and the State will ensure Emigration Canyon ability to maintain its
membership in the National Flood Insurance Program;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED: by the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council the following ordinance amendments, repeals, and additions to
the Emigration Canyon Municipal Code of Ordinances:

   A. Chapter 19.74 is repealed in its entirety; and
   B. Chapter 19.74 is adopted in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A
   C. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen days after its passage and
      upon publication of the ordinance, or a summary thereof on the Utah state
      noticing website.



APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon, Salt Lake County, Utah
      28th
this _____day    September , 2021.
              of _________

                   FOR THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                 BY:___________________________________
                                            Joe Smolka, Mayor


 ATTEST:

 _____________________________________
 SHERRIE SWENSEN
 SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER




                                                                                  2
 APPROVED AS TO FORM:


 ___________________________________
 POLLY MCLEAN
 METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING:

Councilmember Bowen voting             _______

Councilmember Brems voting             _______

Councilmember Harris voting            _______

Councilmember Hawkes voting            _______

Mayor Smolka voting                    _______


Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website
on______________________ , 2021.

Effective date of Ordinance:____________________.




                                                             3
Chapter 19.74 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

19.74.010 - Statutory Authorization.

     The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Unannotated 10-3-701 delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council of Emigration Canyon, Utah does ordain as
follows:
      The Emigration Canyon Metro Township elects to comply with the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a
voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), a component
of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Emigration Canyon community officials have elected
to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and the
requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas
of the Incorporated Emigration Canyon Township having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA,
and that floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore,
Emigration Canyon Metro Township may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to
areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent
risk of flooding in such areas.
19.74.020 - Findings.

    1. The flood hazard areas of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township are subject to periodic
       inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
       commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
       and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
    2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that cause
       an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards areas by uses
       vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, flood-
       proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage.
19.74.030 - Statement of Purpose.

    It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to
    minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed
    to:

        1. Protect human life and health;

        2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control projects;

        3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding that are generally
           undertaken at the expense of the general public;
        4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

        5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and sewer mains, electric
           and telephone lines, and streets and bridges located in floodplains.

        6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood-
           prone areas in such a manner as to minimize blight to future flood-prone areas;

        7. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.

19.74.040 - Methods of Reducing Flood Losses.

    In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following methods:
         1. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood,
            or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
         2. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
            protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
         3. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
            barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
         4. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage;
         5. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
            floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.

19.74.050 – Definitions

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted to give
them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable
application.

100-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of being equaled
or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms “100-hundred-year
flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood” are synonymous. The term does not imply that the flood
will necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood insurance requirements may
apply.

100-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a
1-percent-annual-chance flood.

500-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The term does not imply
that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500 years and mandatory flood insurance requirement
generally does not apply.
500-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the occurrence of a
0.2-percent-annual-chance flood.

Accessory Structure is a structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure. Its use
is incidental to the use of the principal structure the ownership of the accessory structure is the same
owner as of the principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential structure of low value
that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools, materials, or equipment. No human
habitation is allowed within an accessory structure.

Addition is any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square footage of an
existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the side, front, or rear of a structure; vertical
additions added on top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a structure.

Alluvial Fan Flooding means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform that
originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment
transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

Apex means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the major
stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

Appurtenant Structure—see Accessory Structure.

Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-percent-
annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology.

Area of Shallow Flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of
1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

Area of Special Flood-Related Erosion Hazard is the land within a community that is most likely to be
subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the Flood
Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related erosion hazard
area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined.

Area of Special Flood Hazard is the land in the flood plain within a community subject to a 1 percent or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After
detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is
refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE,
or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term “special flood hazard area” is synonymous in meaning
with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.

Base Flood means the flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.

Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event. It
is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of the base flood at
pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation shown on the
FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-
V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent
chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.

Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. A
walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

Best Available Data is existing flood hazard information adopted by a community and reflected on an
effective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary flood hazard information
supplied by FEMA or from another source. Other sources may include, but are not limited to, state,
other federal agencies, or local studies, the more restrictive of which would be reasonably used by the
community.

Breakaway Wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces, without causing
damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system. Any walls below the
lowest floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind and water loads without causing
collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion of the building of the supporting pilings
or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE Zones.

Building—see Structure.

Channelization means the artificial creation, enlargement, realignment, or alteration of a stream
channel’s slope, shape, or alignment. Streambank restoration may be deemed as channelization.

Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the codification of the general and permanent rules published in
the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would,
upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus
result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The
letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be
recognized by FEMA.

Conditional Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (CLOMR-F) is FEMA's comment on a proposed
structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the project, if
built as proposed, would be removed from the floodplain.

Crawlspace means an under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more than 4
feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation, designed with proper openings that
equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation. Reference: 19.74.060 H

Deed Restriction refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some respect.
Deed restrictions may impose a vast variety of limitations and conditions. For example, they may limit
the density of buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, or prevent buildings from
being used for specific purposes or from being used at all.
Detached Garage is a building that is used solely for storage of materials or vehicle parking for up to
four housing occupants. If a detached garage is designed or used for habitation or conducting business,
or has multiple stories, then the building is not considered a detached garage under the NFIP.

Development means any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, demolition, excavation
or drilling operations, or storage either temporary or permanent of equipment or materials.

Elevated Building is a non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground level by means of
pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and
D, an “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter
walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters.

Enclosure refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building. Enclosures
below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage.

Erosion means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other natural
agents.

Existing Construction refers to structures for which the “start of construction” commenced before the
effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. It may also be
referred to as Existing Structures.

Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.

Existing Structures—see Existing Construction.

Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means the preparation of additional
sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be
affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or
the pouring of concrete pads).

FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Fill refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure, property, or
portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site, regardless of where the material was
obtained from. The common practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing with engineered
material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing conditions. Any fill placed or
used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not deemed as fill.

Flood or Flooding means:
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
            2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
            3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in this
                ordinance and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally
                dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the
                path of the current.
            4. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a
                result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
                anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a
                natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of
                nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
                unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined in this ordinance.

Flood Insurance Manual is the document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to write flood
insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions, policy rates, coverage
and limitations, application and insurance policy forms.

Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the Administrator
has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.

Flood Insurance Study (FIS) or Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation, and
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.

Floodplain Development Permit is a community issued permit or document that is used for any
development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the community. It is used to address the
proposed development to ensure compliance with the community’s ordinance.

Floodplain or Flood-Prone Area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding).

Floodplain Management means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, flood
control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations.

Floodplain Management Regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes,
health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for flood damage prevention and
reduction.

Flood Opening refers to an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters to
automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1.

Flood Protection System means those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized,
appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to
reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to an SFHA and to reduce the depths of
associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or
dikes. These specialized, flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both private and public, that have been certified by
a professional engineer or firm in which the certification shows that the levee have met and continue to
meet the minimum regulatory standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (44 CFR 65.10).

Floodproofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either be
accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels that
need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures applied to a structure
that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the
structure or area.

Floodway—(Regulatory Floodway) - means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Floodway encroachment lines mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state, and
local flood plain maps.

Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of flood
plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that could
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway
conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.

Functionally Dependent Use means a development that cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking facilities, port facilities that
are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and repair
facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.

Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade is
utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade and the depth of
the AO Zone. Reference: 19.74.060 L: Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones).

Historic Structure means any structure that is:
    1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
        Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting
        the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
    2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
        historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the
        Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
    3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation
        programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
    4. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
       preservation programs that have been certified either:
           a. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or
           b. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.

Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective FIRM. A
LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued because a property or
structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, when the property or structure is
actually on natural high ground above the BFE.

Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion of the
effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, or the
SFHA.

Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to an effective
FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or structure above the
BFE.

Levee means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as to
provide protection from temporary flooding.

Levee System means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in accordance
with sound engineering practices.

Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG) means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the lowest
point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks, stairs,
and basement windows.

Lowest Floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or
flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements
of Section 60.3.

Manufactured Home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to
the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”;
however, a manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential use.

Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into
two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

Map means the FHBM or the FIRM for a community issued by FEMA.
Mean Sea Level means, for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929,
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which BFEs shown on a community's
FIRM are referenced.

Mixed Use Structures are structures with both a business and a residential component, but where the
area used for business is less than 50 percent of the total floor area of the structure.

New Construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.

New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final
site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.

No-Rise Certifications are formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer licensed
to practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will not result in any
increase (0.00 feet) in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of a base flood event.

Physical Map Revision (PMR) is FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are physically revised
and republished.

Recreational Vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(a) Built on a single chassis;
(b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(d) Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, brook, creek,
etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.

Section 1316 refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, which
provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the Administrator finds has
been declared by a duly constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or local floodplain
management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property owner, and remains with
the property even after a change of ownership.

Special Flood Hazard Area—see Area of Special Flood Hazard.
Start of Construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include
the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of
the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.

Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert, bridge,
dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.

Structure, for insurance purposes, means:
(1) A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a
permanent site;
(2) A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a structure: built
on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and affixed to a permanent
foundation); or
(3) A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that is
regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws.
For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other
similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage tank.

Substantial Damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring
the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.

Substantial Improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the “start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.

The term does not, however, include:
    1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
       sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been identified by the local code enforcement
       official and are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
    2. Any alteration of a “historic structure”, if the alteration will not preclude the structure's
       continued designation as a “historic structure.”

Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a flood plain management
regulation. Reference: 19.74.050 E. Variance Procedures
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sections 44 CFR
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as
that documentation is provided.

Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies, such as the 1-
percent-annual-chance flood event, in the flood plains of coastal or riverine areas.

Watercourse means the channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream, river, ditch
or other similar feature.

19.74.050 - General Provisions.

    A. Lands to Which This Ordinance Applies

        The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within the
        jurisdiction of The Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

        1. Annexation
           When the community annexes any land from a neighboring jurisdiction, Emigration Canyon
           Metro Township will manage and regulate the annexed land under this ordinance.

    B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard

        The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
        scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Salt Lake County and
        Incorporated Communities," dated June 19, 2020, with accompanying FIRMs, and any revisions
        thereto are hereby automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
        ordinance.

    C. Establishment of Development Permit

        A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
        of this ordinance.

    D. Fees

        Standard fees may be charged for applications under these provisions. Additionally, fees for any
        engineering reviews will be billed to the applicant.

    E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions

        This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants,
        or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement,
        covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
        restrictions shall prevail.
F. Interpretation

     In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:
     1. Considered as minimum requirements;
     2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
     3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.

G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for
   regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare
   occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by human-made
   or natural causes.

     This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
     permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall
     not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any
     flood damages that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully
     made thereunder.

H. Severability

     If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
     court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.

I.   Compliance

     No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes
     or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with
     the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the
     Emigration Canyon Metro Township from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
     remedy any violations.

J.   Stop Work Order

     1. Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community official discovers any
        work or activity regulated by this ordinance being performed in a manner contrary to the
        provision of this ordinance, the floodplain administrator is authorized to issue a stop work
        order.

     2. Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the
        property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance
        of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state
        the reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
        resume.

     3. Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having been served
        with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
           violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by local or state law
           including but not limited to the penalties outlined in XX.XXX.XXX, J. Penalties for
           Noncompliance.

   K. Penalties for Noncompliance

       In accordance with Section 59.2(b) of CFR 44, Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulation, to qualify for the
       sale of federally subsidized flood insurance, a community must adopt floodplain management
       regulations that meet or exceed the minimum standards of Section 60. “These regulations must
       include effective enforcement provisions.” In accordance with Section 60.1(b) of CFR 44,
       Chapter 1, of the NFIP regulations, “These regulations must be legally-enforceable, applied
       uniformly throughout the community to all privately and publicly owned land within flood-prone
       (i.e. mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas, and the community must provide that the
       regulations take precedence over less restrictive conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes.”

       Therefore:

       No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered
       without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
       Violation of the provisions of this ordinance by failure to comply with any of its requirements
       (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions)
       shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to comply with
       any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $ 10,000.00 or
       imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both, for each violation assessed daily, and in
       addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall
       prevent the Emigration Canyon Metro Township from taking such other lawful action as is
       necessary to prevent or remedy any violation

19.74.060 Administration

   A. Designation of the Floodplain Administrator

       The Director of Planning and Development Services or Their Designee is hereby appointed the
       Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and
       other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR pertaining to floodplain
       management.

   B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator

       Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to,
       the following:

           1. Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when possible and
              increase the community’s resistance to future disasters.

           2. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of
              this ordinance, including the actual elevation of the lowest floor (including basement or
              crawlspace) of all new or substantially improved structures and any floodproofing
    certificates, including the data supporting such certificates.

3. Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate the
   boundaries of the SFHAs to which this ordinance applies, including, but not limited to,
   the FIRM.

4. Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building site,
   including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably
   safe from flooding.

5. Review, approve, or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption
   of this ordinance.

6. Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
   governmental agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
   Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973) from
   which prior approval is required.

7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
   watercourse is maintained.

8. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Agency
   which is State of Utah Engineers Stream Alteration office, prior to any alteration or
   relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.

9. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas
   of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
   mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make
   the necessary interpretation.

10. When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator shall
    obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data available from a
    federal, state, or other source including data provided by the applicant, in order to
    administer the provisions of this ordinance.

11. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, no new construction, substantial
    improvements, or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-
    30, AE, and AH on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
    effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
    anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
    more than 1.00* feet at any point within the community unless the community has
    adopted higher standard options.

12. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP Regulations, a
    community may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the
    community’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of the base flood by
    more than 1.00* foot, provided that the community first meets the requirements of
           Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA’s CLOMR process.

       13. If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse effect on the
           BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures, technical justification
           for the proposed development shall be submitted and the community may require a
           CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit approval or as a requirement of
           the permit.

C. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data

       1. The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR within 6
          months of project completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR from FEMA or
          when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries, or modified
          BFE.

       2. The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data to
          support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees
          to FEMA. The property owner or developer is responsible for submitting the CLOMR and
          LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data to FEMA if requested during the
          review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR is issued.

       3. The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community
          Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the
          applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this
          ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local laws.

D. Permit Procedures
      1. Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
          Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to:

               a. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                  elevation of proposed landscape alterations.

               b. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and
                  elevation of existing and proposed structures, including the placement of
                  manufactured homes.

               c. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs.

               d. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement
                  and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved structures, if applicable;

               e. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any nonresidential structure
                  (if applicable) shall be floodproofed.

               f.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the
                    nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the
                    floodproofing criteria of this ordinance and the NFIP Regulations.
              g. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be
                 altered or relocated because of proposed development, if applicable.

              h. At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for issuance of
                 floodplain development permits.

              i.   Copies of all floodplain development permits and the associated documents
                   shall become property of the community and a permanent record.

       2. Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be
          based on all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following relevant factors:

              a. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.

              b. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and
                 the effect of such damage on the individual owner.

              c. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
                 others.

              d. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
                 development.

              e. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
                 emergency vehicles.

              f.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions
                   including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and
                   facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems.

              g. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of
                 the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the
                 site.

              h. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable.

              i.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion
                   damage, for the proposed use.

              j.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.

E. Variance Procedures

       1. The Appeal Authority or Variance Authority, as established by the community, shall hear
          and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance
          after a floodplain development permit has been denied.
          a. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Authority may
             appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.

          b. The Appeal Authority, as established by the community, shall hear and render
             judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
             requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
             Administrator in the enforcement of administration of this ordinance.

          c. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an
             appeal and shall report variances to FEMA and the State Coordinating Agency
             upon issuing a variance.

          d. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements
             to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and
             surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base flood
             level, providing the relevant factors in this chapter have been fully considered.
             As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification
             required for issuing the variance increases.

          e. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
             ordinance, the Appeal Authority may attach such conditions to the granting of
             variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
             ordinance.

          f.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in
               flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.

          g. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures
             upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
             preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the
             variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
             design of the structure. The term ‘‘substantial improvement’’ does not include
             any alteration of a structure or facility listed on the National Register of
             Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.

2. Prerequisites for granting variances:

          a. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
             minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief. Variances
             shall only be issued upon:

                i.    Showing a good and sufficient cause.

               ii.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
                      exceptional hardship to the applicant.

               iii.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
                      increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
                        extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
                        victimization of the public, conflict with existing local laws or
                        ordinances, considers the need of ingress and egress during times of
                        floods, and does not jeopardize first responders’ health and welfare.

             b. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
               the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below
               the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
               increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.

             c. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial
                improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
                functionally dependent use provided that:

                  i.    The criteria outlined in 19.74.050 Variance Procedures are met; and

                  ii.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
                        minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
                        threats to public safety.

19.74.060 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction

A. General Standards

   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required for all new
   construction and substantial improvements:

       1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified)
          and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
          structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects
          of buoyancy.

       2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods
          and practices that minimize flood damage.

       3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
          materials resistant to flood damage.

       4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with
          electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
          service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
          entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.

       5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or
          eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.

       6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or
          eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the
           systems into flood waters.

       7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid impairment to
          them or contamination from them during flooding.

B. Substantial Improvement

   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
   building or structure, if the cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 50
   percent, unless a higher standard option is selected below, of the market value of the
   structure only (not of the structure and land value combined) before the improvement or
   repair is started then the work shall be considered as substantial improvement. If the
   structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
   improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. For Substantial Damage,
   refer to 19.74.060 C. The term does not, however, include either:

       1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health,
          sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official and that are the
          minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.

       2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not preclude
          the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.

C. Substantial Damage

   Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost
   of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of
   the market value of the structure only, unless a higher standard option is selected, before
   the damage occurred. This term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage
   that equals or exceeds 50 percent of the structure’s market value regardless of the actual
   repair work performed. When a structure or building has been determined as substantially
   damaged, any work or repair on said structure or building will be considered as substantial
   improvement and will be required to meet the development requirements set forth within
   this ordinance for substantial improvement.

D. Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination

   For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
   alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
   rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
   structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the applicable community
   officials and staff, shall:

       1. Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an appraisal of the
          market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the building or
          structure only, not of land and building, before the start of construction of the
          proposed work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
          shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
           made.

       2. Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged
          building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements and
          repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure.

       3. Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial
          improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination requires
          evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as specified in
          19.74.060 sections B and C.

       4. Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference when making
          any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial Damage.

       5. The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is proposed as
          the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore, the determination
          of the cost of the improvement should consider all costs of all phases of the work
          before issuance of the first permit.

       6. Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes substantial
          improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance with the flood,
          this ordinance is required.

E. Residential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the
   lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the BFE, unless a freeboard option is noted
   below. If a freeboard option is noted, new construction and substantial improvement shall
   have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the freeboard elevation. A registered
   professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the
   Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this ordinance are satisfied.

F. Nonresidential Construction

   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or other
   nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to
   the base flood level, unless a freeboard option is noted below, or together with attendant
   utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
   watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
   components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
   effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or
   review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
   the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
   practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification that includes the
   specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed
   shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building
   changes in the future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be
   used when determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of this
   ordinance. As such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be
   required to be brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of
   this ordinance.

G. Enclosures

   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the lowest
   floor that are to be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area
   other than a basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
   equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
   floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
   professional engineer or architect, or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

       1. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than 1 square inch
          for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

       2. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade.

       3. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
          devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

   The development and construction of the structure must conform with the provision in
   FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1 and 2. Certification and
   documentation from a professional, licensed engineer or architect is required if the
   structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE.

H. Crawlspace

   New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-grade (below
   grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and meets or exceeds
   the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not
   limited to the following:

       1. The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and adequately
          anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
          resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
          buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed
          in areas with flood velocities greater than 5 feet per second unless the design is
          reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a registered architect or
          professional engineer.

       2. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have openings
          that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
          floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more than 1 foot
          above the LAG.

       3. The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization of
          hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. To
            achieve this, a minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is required per 1 square
            foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.

        4. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials resistant
           to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the crawlspace used
           to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation, piers, or other materials that
           extend below the BFE. Ductwork, in particular, must either be placed above the BFE
           or sealed from floodwaters.

        5. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the BFE
           or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system
           components during flood conditions.

        6. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2 feet
           below the LAG.

        7. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior grade
           of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher floor
           cannot exceed 4 feet at any point.

        8. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the
           interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a
           reasonable time after a flood event.

        9. Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance premiums
           than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with the interior
           elevation at or above the LAG.

I.   Manufactured Homes

        1. Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's
           FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood
           damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
           elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods
           of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
           ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and local
           anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.

        2. Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
           Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites outside of a
           manufactured home park or subdivision;) in a new manufactured home park or
           subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
           or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured
           home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a
           permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
           elevated to or above the BFE, unless a higher standard option was selected, and be
           securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
           collapse, and lateral movement.
         3. In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, require that manufactured homes to be placed or
            substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park to be elevated so
            that the lowest floor is at or above the BFE, unless a higher standard option was
            selected; or the chassis is supported by reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in
            height above grade and securely anchored.

J.   Recreation Vehicles

     Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the
     community's FIRM either:

         1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days unless the community has
            elected a higher standard option and be fully licensed and ready for highway use;

                   a. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
                      system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
                      security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.

         2. Or meet the permit requirements of 19.74.050 D: Permit Procedures, and the
            elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this section.

K. Standards for Subdivision Proposals

         1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall be consistent with the provisions of this ordinance.

         2. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
            hazards.

         3. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of
            manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit
            requirements of this ordinance.

         4. BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
            development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions, which is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, or whichever is lesser.

         5. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
            hazards.

         6. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
            subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
            water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.

L. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   Located within the SFHAs established in 19.74.050 A, Lands to Which this Ordinance Applies,
   are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood hazards associated
   with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
   where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
   flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
       1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have
           the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
           least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at
           least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the community has elected a
           freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation must be elevated above the
           highest adjacent grade above the depth number specified in feet on the
           community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified) plus the
           freeboard height option selected below.

       2. All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential structures:

           a. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent
              grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's
              FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified). If the community has
              elected a freeboard standard, then the lowest floor elevation must be elevated
              above the highest adjacent grade above the depth number specified in feet on
              the community’s FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified) plus the
              freeboard height option selected below; or

           b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below
              the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
              impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having
              the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of effects of
              buoyancy.

       3. A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the
          Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this Section.

       4. Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on
          slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.

M. Floodways

   Floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood
   waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
   provisions shall apply:

       1. Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level more
          than 1 foot.

       2. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
          improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway
   unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
   performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
   encroachment would not result in any increase greater than 0.00 feet, unless higher
   standard option selected, in flood levels within the community during the
   occurrence of the base flood discharge.


3. All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable
   flood hazard reduction provisions in this ordinance.

4. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP Regulations, a
   community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway
   that would result in an increase in BFEs, provided that the community first applies
   for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA
To:    Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
From: Travis Hair, MSD Planner
Date: September 8, 2021
Re:    OAM2021-000425 – Flood Damage Prevention Code Amendment


Attached is the proposed revision of Chapter 19.74 regarding flood control and flood damage
prevention. When Emigration Canyon incorporated, it adopted the majority of the Salt Lake
County Code that existed at the time including the existing flood control ordinances. This chapter
is now outdated, and the MSD staff has reviewed and drafted new language that ensures
compliance with regulations outlined by the State of Utah as well as FEMA. This ordinance is
important to create standards for future possible development in those floodplains that do exist
within Emigration Canyon. It’s also important that acceptable Best Management Practices are in
place. If not, FEMA can possibly restrict emergency funds for other types of disaster relief such
as the Earthquake this past year, fires, and other natural disasters.
A summary of what this ordinance specifically puts in place can be found in Sections 19.74.030
and 19.74.040.
It is important to note that this ordinance does not include or impact existing FEMA floodplain
maps. Those maps need updating but are outside the scope of this ordinance. The Salt Lake
County Flood Control office and MSD Stormwater Construction Department are continuing to
work with the state to secure funding for the studies needed to update those.
Recommendation:
The MSD planning staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation for the proposed ordinance to the Emigration Canyon Township Council for
their consideration and approval.


Attachments:
Proposed Chapter 19.74




              2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                          msd.utah.gov
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
EXCISE TAX REVENUE BONDS
SERIES 2021

FINANCING OPTIONS*
September 13, 2021


  Project Amount:                                                  $16,000,000                                                            $20,000,000


  Method of Sale:                             Private Placement                     Public Offering                   Private Placement                 Public Offering



  Amortization:                             10-Year Amortization                10-Year Amortization                 10-Year Amortization           10-Year Amortization


  Par Amount:                                   $16,055,000                          $13,110,000                         $20,055,000                    $16,365,000

  Total Net Debt Service:                       $17,675,274                          $16,949,079                         $22,079,294                    $21,157,202

  Average Annual Debt Service:                   $1,767,527                          $1,694,908                          $2,207,929                      $2,115,720

  True Interest Cost:                               1.800%                              0.950%                               1.800%                        0.950%

  All-Inclusive Cost:                               1.866%                              1.074%                               1.852%                        1.049%

  Costs of Issuance:                               $55,000                            $158,440                               $55,000                      $171,460


*Estimated rates as of 9/13/2021. Stifel public offering scale estimate and private placement indicative rate from a bank.




                                                                                                                                                           Prepared by:
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
EXCISE TAX REVENUE BONDS
SERIES 2021
Class "B & C" Road Projects

PRIVATE PLACEMENT OPTION
As of September 13, 2021


Class "B & C" Revenues, Bonds, and Coverage

  PROJECT AMOUNT                                                      SERIES 2021 BONDS5
     $16,000,000                                                                                                                 Excess
                                        Class "B & C"                                              Annual                       Class "C"
                             Date       Revenues1,2,3,4       Principal           Interest       Debt Service    Coverage       Revenues

                           12/31/2017                     $               -   $              -   $           -      -       $            -
                           12/31/2018       10,171,304                    -                  -               -      -           10,171,304
      HISTORICAL
                           12/31/2019        7,338,926                    -                  -               -      -            7,338,926
                           12/31/2020        7,220,222                    -                  -               -      -            7,220,222

BUDGET (ADJ FOR COVID-19) 12/31/2021         6,117,672                 -                  -                  -       -           6,117,672
                           12/31/2022        4,980,420         1,490,000            278,554          1,768,554    2.82 x         3,211,866
                           12/31/2023        5,055,127         1,505,000            262,170          1,767,170    2.86 x         3,287,957
                           12/31/2024        5,130,954         1,535,000            235,080          1,770,080    2.90 x         3,360,874
                           12/31/2025        5,207,918         1,560,000            207,450          1,767,450    2.95 x         3,440,468
                           12/31/2026        5,286,037         1,590,000            179,370          1,769,370    2.99 x         3,516,667
     PROJECTIONS
                           12/31/2027        5,365,327         1,615,000            150,750          1,765,750    3.04 x         3,599,577
                           12/31/2028        5,445,807         1,645,000            121,680          1,766,680    3.08 x         3,679,127
                           12/31/2029        5,527,494         1,675,000             92,070          1,767,070    3.13 x         3,760,424
                           12/31/2030        5,610,407         1,705,000             61,920          1,766,920    3.18 x         3,843,487
                           12/31/2031        5,694,563         1,735,000             31,230          1,766,230    3.22 x         3,928,333


                           TOTAL        $   84,152,178    $ 16,055,000        $ 1,620,274        $ 17,675,274       -       $ 66,476,903


NOTES & ASSUMPTIONS

1. Class "B & C" Revenues Projections provided by the District.
2. Annual inflation multiplier 1.50% beginning in FY2023.
3. Unincorporated Salt Lake County reduced by 25% in 2021 and 50% in 2022 per SB150.
4. FY2020 receipts were 1.6% lower than 2019 due to COVID and lower gas prices. Therefore, FY2020 was used as a more
conservative baseline for projections.
5. Series 2021 Bonds assumed All Inclusive Cost (All-in-TIC): 1.87%. Estimated current market rates as of 9/13/2021.


                                                                                                                                     Prepared by:
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
EXCISE TAX REVENUE BONDS
SERIES 2021
Class "B & C" Road Projects

PUBLIC OFFERING OPTION
As of September 13, 2021


Class "B & C" Revenues, Bonds, and Coverage

  PROJECT AMOUNT                                                      SERIES 2021 BONDS5
     $16,000,000                                                                                                                 Excess
                                        Class "B & C"                                              Annual                       Class "C"
                             Date       Revenues1,2,3,4       Principal           Interest       Debt Service    Coverage       Revenues

                           12/31/2017                     $               -   $              -   $           -      -       $            -
                           12/31/2018       10,171,304                    -                  -               -      -           10,171,304
      HISTORICAL
                           12/31/2019        7,338,926                    -                  -               -      -            7,338,926
                           12/31/2020        7,220,222                    -                  -               -      -            7,220,222

BUDGET (ADJ FOR COVID-19) 12/31/2021         6,117,672                 -                  -                  -       -           6,117,672
                           12/31/2022        4,980,420         1,065,000            631,829          1,696,829    2.94 x         3,283,591
                           12/31/2023        5,055,127         1,090,000            602,250          1,692,250    2.99 x         3,362,877
                           12/31/2024        5,130,954         1,145,000            547,750          1,692,750    3.03 x         3,438,204
                           12/31/2025        5,207,918         1,205,000            490,500          1,695,500    3.07 x         3,512,418
                           12/31/2026        5,286,037         1,265,000            430,250          1,695,250    3.12 x         3,590,787
     PROJECTIONS
                           12/31/2027        5,365,327         1,330,000            367,000          1,697,000    3.16 x         3,668,327
                           12/31/2028        5,445,807         1,395,000            300,500          1,695,500    3.21 x         3,750,307
                           12/31/2029        5,527,494         1,465,000            230,750          1,695,750    3.26 x         3,831,744
                           12/31/2030        5,610,407         1,535,000            157,500          1,692,500    3.31 x         3,917,907
                           12/31/2031        5,694,563         1,615,000             80,750          1,695,750    3.36 x         3,998,813


                           TOTAL        $   84,152,178    $ 13,110,000        $ 3,839,079        $ 16,949,079       -       $ 67,203,099


NOTES & ASSUMPTIONS

1. Class "B & C" Revenues Projections provided by the District.
2. Annual inflation multiplier 1.50% beginning in FY2023.
3. Unincorporated Salt Lake County reduced by 25% in 2021 and 50% in 2022 per SB150.
4. FY2020 receipts were 1.6% lower than 2019 due to COVID and lower gas prices. Therefore, FY2020 was used as a more
conservative baseline for projections.
5. Series 2021 Bonds assumed All Inclusive Cost (All-in-TIC): 1.87%. Estimated current market rates as of 9/13/2021.


                                                                                                                                     Prepared by:
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
EXCISE TAX REVENUE BONDS
SERIES 2021
Class "B & C" Road Projects

PRIVATE PLACEMENT OPTION
As of September 13, 2021


Class "B & C" Revenues, Bonds, and Coverage

  PROJECT AMOUNT                                                      SERIES 2021 BONDS5
     $20,000,000                                                                                                                 Excess
                                        Class "B & C"                                              Annual                       Class "C"
                             Date       Revenues1,2,3,4       Principal           Interest       Debt Service    Coverage       Revenues

                           12/31/2017                     $               -   $              -   $           -      -       $            -
                           12/31/2018       10,171,304                    -                  -               -      -           10,171,304
      HISTORICAL
                           12/31/2019        7,338,926                    -                  -               -      -            7,338,926
                           12/31/2020        7,220,222                    -                  -               -      -            7,220,222

BUDGET (ADJ FOR COVID-19) 12/31/2021         6,117,672                 -                  -                  -       -           6,117,672
                           12/31/2022        4,980,420         1,860,000            347,954          2,207,954    2.26 x         2,772,466
                           12/31/2023        5,055,127         1,880,000            327,510          2,207,510    2.29 x         2,847,617
                           12/31/2024        5,130,954         1,915,000            293,670          2,208,670    2.32 x         2,922,284
                           12/31/2025        5,207,918         1,950,000            259,200          2,209,200    2.36 x         2,998,718
                           12/31/2026        5,286,037         1,985,000            224,100          2,209,100    2.39 x         3,076,937
     PROJECTIONS
                           12/31/2027        5,365,327         2,020,000            188,370          2,208,370    2.43 x         3,156,957
                           12/31/2028        5,445,807         2,055,000            152,010          2,207,010    2.47 x         3,238,797
                           12/31/2029        5,527,494         2,090,000            115,020          2,205,020    2.51 x         3,322,474
                           12/31/2030        5,610,407         2,130,000             77,400          2,207,400    2.54 x         3,403,007
                           12/31/2031        5,694,563         2,170,000             39,060          2,209,060    2.58 x         3,485,503


                           TOTAL        $   84,152,178    $ 20,055,000        $ 2,024,294        $ 22,079,294       -       $ 62,072,883


NOTES & ASSUMPTIONS

1. Class "B & C" Revenues Projections provided by the District.
2. Annual inflation multiplier 1.50% beginning in FY2023.
3. Unincorporated Salt Lake County reduced by 25% in 2021 and 50% in 2022 per SB150.
4. FY2020 receipts were 1.6% lower than 2019 due to COVID and lower gas prices. Therefore, FY2020 was used as a more
conservative baseline for projections.
5. Series 2021 Bonds assumed All Inclusive Cost (All-in-TIC): 1.87%. Estimated current market rates as of 9/13/2021.


                                                                                                                                     Prepared by:
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
EXCISE TAX REVENUE BONDS
SERIES 2021
Class "B & C" Road Projects

PUBLIC OFFERING OPTION
As of September 13, 2021


Class "B & C" Revenues, Bonds, and Coverage

  PROJECT AMOUNT                                                      SERIES 2021 BONDS5
     $20,000,000                                                                                                                 Excess
                                        Class "B & C"                                              Annual                       Class "C"
                             Date       Revenues1,2,3,4       Principal           Interest       Debt Service    Coverage       Revenues

                           12/31/2017                     $               -   $              -   $           -      -       $            -
                           12/31/2018       10,171,304                    -                  -               -      -           10,171,304
      HISTORICAL
                           12/31/2019        7,338,926                    -                  -               -      -            7,338,926
                           12/31/2020        7,220,222                    -                  -               -      -            7,220,222

BUDGET (ADJ FOR COVID-19) 12/31/2021         6,117,672                 -                  -                  -       -           6,117,672
                           12/31/2022        4,980,420         1,325,000            788,702          2,113,702    2.36 x         2,866,718
                           12/31/2023        5,055,127         1,365,000            752,000          2,117,000    2.39 x         2,938,127
                           12/31/2024        5,130,954         1,430,000            683,750          2,113,750    2.43 x         3,017,204
                           12/31/2025        5,207,918         1,505,000            612,250          2,117,250    2.46 x         3,090,668
                           12/31/2026        5,286,037         1,580,000            537,000          2,117,000    2.50 x         3,169,037
     PROJECTIONS
                           12/31/2027        5,365,327         1,660,000            458,000          2,118,000    2.53 x         3,247,327
                           12/31/2028        5,445,807         1,740,000            375,000          2,115,000    2.57 x         3,330,807
                           12/31/2029        5,527,494         1,825,000            288,000          2,113,000    2.62 x         3,414,494
                           12/31/2030        5,610,407         1,920,000            196,750          2,116,750    2.65 x         3,493,657
                           12/31/2031        5,694,563         2,015,000            100,750          2,115,750    2.69 x         3,578,813


                           TOTAL        $   84,152,178    $ 16,365,000        $ 4,792,202        $ 21,157,202       -       $ 62,994,976


NOTES & ASSUMPTIONS

1. Class "B & C" Revenues Projections provided by the District.
2. Annual inflation multiplier 1.50% beginning in FY2023.
3. Unincorporated Salt Lake County reduced by 25% in 2021 and 50% in 2022 per SB150.
4. FY2020 receipts were 1.6% lower than 2019 due to COVID and lower gas prices. Therefore, FY2020 was used as a more
conservative baseline for projections.
5. Series 2021 Bonds assumed All Inclusive Cost (All-in-TIC): 1.87%. Estimated current market rates as of 9/13/2021.


                                                                                                                                     Prepared by:
                    GREATER SALT LAKE MUNCIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT
                    Estimated Finance Schedule

  Private Placement


                                  Sept                                              Oct                                              Oct                                     Nov
                                   30                                               17                                               28                                      23
                                                    ADOPT SUPER
                                                    PARAMETERS                                      PUBLIC HEARING                            RECEIVE REQUEST
                                                    RESOLUTION                                                                                   FOR BIDS


                            INITIAL DRAFT                                  PUBLISH NOTICE OF                             DISTRIBUTE REQUEST                               BOND CLOSING
                             DOCUMENTS                                    BONDS TO BE ISSUED                                   FOR BIDS
                             DISTRIBUTED
                                                           Oct                                              Oct                                         Nov
                                                           13                                               27                                          11



  Public Offering


          Oct                                              Oct                                              Nov                                             Dec                              Dec
           7                                               17                                               17                                               6                               29
                            ADOPT SUPER
                            PARAMETERS                                     PUBLIC HEARING                                   RECEIVE RATING                                 BOND SALE
                            RESOLUTION



   INITIAL DRAFT                                PUBLISH NOTICE OF                                BOND RATING CALLS                                       POST POS                        BOND CLOSING
    DOCUMENTS                                  BONDS TO BE ISSUED
    DISTRIBUTED
                                  Oct                                              Oct                                             Dec 3                                      Dec
                                  13                                               27                                                                                         14



Note: The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Board of trustees holds its regular Board meeting on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 6:00 p.m.
                    EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
                         Regular Meeting Schedule for 2021



Meeting Place:    Emigration Canyon Fire Station (5025 E Emigration Canyon Road)
Staff Meeting:    7:00 PM
Public Meeting:   Begins Immediately After the Staff Meeting

                   The Public is Welcome to Attend Both Meetings

                             (Unless Otherwise Specified)
                                  January 28, 2021
                                  February 25, 2021
                                   March 25, 2021
                                    April 27, 2021
                                    May 25, 2021
                                    June 22, 2021
                                    July 27, 2021
                                   August 24, 2021
                                 September 28, 2021
                                  October 26, 2021
                                 November 23, 2021
                                 December 28, 2021
Calendar for Reference
    Purposes Only




                  Saturday
                             Sunday
                 Saturday
                             Sunday
Meeting Schedule for 2021
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Board of Trustees
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Board of Trustees holds its regular Board meeting on the
second and fourth Wednesday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at 2001 S. State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
via Zoom Conferencing.


The meeting dates for 2021 are:


January 13, 2021
January 27, 2021
February 10, 2021
February 24, 2021
March 10, 2021
March 24, 2021
April 14, 2021
April 28, 2021
May 12, 2021
May 26, 2021
June 9, 2021
June 23, 2021
July 14, 2021
July 28, 2021 Service Provider Budget Presentations to the MSD Board
July 30, 2021 (9:00am) Service Provider Budget Presentations to the MSD Board
August 11, 2021 Overview of Budget
August 25, 2021 Budget Update during Board Meeting
August 27, 2021 9:00am Budget Workshop – Special Board Meeting
September 1, 2021 Budget Workshop – Special Board Meeting (tentative)
September 8, 2021 Budget Discussion during Board Meeting
September 22, 2021 First Review of Proposed Budget with Board
October 6, 2021 Board shall have available proposed budget 7 days before adoption
October 13, 2021 Public Hearing, Possible Adoption of Proposed Budget
October 27, 2021 Final Adoption if Not Adopted at October 13th Meeting
November 10, 2021 (Only one MSD Board Meeting to be held in November because of holidays)
December 8, 2021 (Only one MSD Board Meeting to be held in November because of holidays)




Updated 12/01/2020
DATE            TUESDAY                              JUNE                                  22, 2021

           THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, JUNE 22, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON
TUESDAY, MAY 25, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: POLLY MCLEAN, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
                       By: NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items, which it will consider at its public meeting
to be held tonight or at a future public meeting:

      Residential fire interview
      General Plan update
      River Restoration update
      Emigration Canyon Metro Township Administrator
      Project updates

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦



                                                 1
DATE            TUESDAY                              JUNE                                 22, 2021

                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Citizen Public Input

              Fred Swanson stated his continuing concerns regarding the road noise from loud
vehicles. He would like to know what type of enforcement is taking place and what progress is
being made from discussions last fall.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Municipal Provider Reports

Emigration Canyon Community Council Report (ECCC)

               Bill Tobey stated a replacement for the fire danger sign that was stolen from the
bottom of the canyon has been received and will be installed. Eighty-five households have signed
up for chipping services. The services will be completed over the next 2 weeks; however, due to
the fire season the schedule may change. The shaded fuel break project at Acorn Hills is still
ongoing.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

               Officer Jake Elsasser reviewed the May 2021 call for service statistics.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

                 Captain Michael Conn stated if the Council decides to start meeting in-person,
the community room is available at the fire station, and they will need to book the room for the
rest of the year. The chipping event and Acorn Hills project is coming up. Defensible space
evaluation requests are up significantly this year. There is a high demand from fire crews to assist
in various situations. The new fire danger sign is at the station and is ready to go.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business

In-person Meetings

               Mayor Smolka asked the Council what its view is on holding Council meetings in-
person starting in July.

               Council Member Brems stated he is ready.

               Council Member Bowen stated he is ready.


                                                 2
DATE            TUESDAY                              JUNE                                 22, 2021


               Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked if a hybrid option is possible.

            Council Member Brems stated meetings should continue on Zoom until all
Council Members can be present.

               Council Member Harris stated she is concerned that the Council does not have
the proper technology to be able to conduct meetings in-person and on Zoom. Residents may not
be comfortable attending meetings due to the increase in the COVID-19 Delta variant.

               Council Member Brems stated to make a hybrid option work, the Council needs
the right technology like a large TV or projection screen.

               Mayor Smolka stated he does not think the Council has the capability to do a
hybrid option at this point.

               Council Member Harris stated she is not eager to go back to in-person meetings.

               Council Member Brems stated he is okay with doing Zoom a little while longer.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she is okay with doing Zoom meetings as well.

               Polly McLean stated the Council can continue meeting over Zoom and declare
the monthly findings that there is a health risk as long as there is still one. The hybrid option is
useful to the public and she has seen an increase in participation because of the online option.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Crosswalks

              Council Member Harris stated she has read the studies from Salt Lake County
Engineering and the Fehr & Peers studies, and both are recommending that other traffic calming
measures are considered before lowing the speed limit. There is a line of site problem at the
crosswalk near Ruth’s Diner.

                 Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated there have been various recommendations on to
help with traffic calming and to make the crosswalk safer; however, there have been no decisions
to implement those recommendations.

               Council Member Harris stated if crosswalks is put on next months agenda, it
would give the Council time to research the recommendations and costs.

               Deputy Mayor Harris stated she would like cost estimates by line item.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Firework Restriction




                                                 3
DATE            TUESDAY                               JUNE                                   22, 2021

              The Council reviewed the following Ordinance restricting fireworks within all
portions of Emigration Canyon Metro Township:

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-06-01                                                         Date: June 22, 2021

       ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR MUNICIPAL RESTRICTION OF FIREWORKS
       WITHIN ALL PORTIONS OF EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

       WHEREAS, Utah Code §53-7-225, prohibits the discharge of Class C common state
approved explosives (fireworks) except around certain holidays including beginning on July 2 and
ending on July 5, and beginning on July 22 and ending on July 25;

        WHEREAS, the fire official for ECMT has found that existing hazardous environmental
conditions exist within the entire ECMT (see Letter From Fire Marshal dated June 21, 2021,
attached as Exhibit A);

        WHEREAS, most of Salt Lake County is in the D-4, Exceptional Drought category with a
historic dry line and explosive potential;

      WHEREAS, the Council of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Council”) finds that
the Township, throughout all areas, contains innumerable mountainous, brush-covered, forest
covered, and dry grass-covered areas which historically and existing today are in an extremely
flammable condition;

        WHEREAS, if existing or historical hazardous environmental conditions exist within the
boundaries of Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“ECMT”), Utah Code § 15A-5-202.5 allows
the Council to prohibit the ignition and use of fireworks while these conditions exist in the following
areas: (1) mountainous, brush-covered, forest covered, or dry grass-covered areas; (2) within 200
feet of waterways, trails, canyons, washes, ravines, or similar areas; (3) wildland urban interface
area, which means the line, area, or zone where structures or other human development meet or
intermingle with undeveloped wildland or land being used for an agricultural purpose; or (4) a
limited area outside the hazardous areas;

       WHEREAS, the Council finds the entire ECMT consists of the above listed hazardous
areas and a map of the ECMT is attached hereto as Exhibit B;

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:

        SECTION I: Pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Code Ann. 15A-5-202.5, and based on
the findings as noted above, the use of Class C fireworks is hereby restricted in all areas of the
ECMT as shown in the attached map of the Metro Township in Exhibit B.

     SECTION II: Due to the extreme drought conditions, the following are prohibited until
November 15, 2021, unless earlier terminated by action of the Council.

       1. No cutting, welding or grinding metal in areas of dry vegetation unless the areas where
          the work is being done is thoroughly wetting down and the areas are kept wet
          throughout the process.



                                                  4
DATE           TUESDAY                              JUNE                                22, 2021

       2. No operating a motorcycle, chainsaw, ATV, other small internal combustion engine
          without an approved and working spark arrestor.

       SECTION III: Effective Date. For the protection and preservation of public health and
       safety, this Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage. The Town Clerk is
       hereby directed to publish and/or post this Ordinance forthwith.

               PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Metro Township Council of Emigration Canyon,
       Utah, this 22nd day of June in the year 2021.

                                                    EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                                    /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
SHERRIE SWENSEN

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Metro Township Clerk

             Council Member Smolka, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
Ordinance 2021-06-01 as written. The motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Signs to Indicate Fire Risk

                 Mayor Smolka asked the Council if they have any opinions on what the signs to
indicate fire risk should say. There are signs that say no fireworks or fireworks prohibited, does
there need to be more signs?

             Mayor Smolka motioned to have signs that say, “No Fireworks in Emigration
Canyon Metro Township” and reference Ordinance No. 2021-06-01.

               Polly McLean stated the signs are legally required they would be for education
purposes.

                Mayor Smolka withdrew his motion and suggested using the signs that are
currently there.

               Council Member Harris asked if there are signs at each entrance to the Canyon.
A sign that says “no fireworks” is a good idea.

               Captain Michael Conn, UFA, stated the fire risk signs are all marked at the highest
level and there are large banners that indicate fireworks are prohibited. He does suggest that if
there is another sign that it says something like no open flame or burning.

               Mayor Smolka stated he will get signs that indicate that there are no open fires.



                                                5
DATE           TUESDAY                              JUNE                                22, 2021


                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Municipal Elections

              Mayor Smolka stated there are two Council seats open for election this year, he
and Robert Pinon are the only ones that have filed to run. Because there are only two seats open
and two candidates that have filed, the Council may be able to cancel the election.

               Nichole Watt, Metro Township Deputy Clerk, stated if there no more candidates
than open seats, the Metro Township has the option to cancel the election. The deadline for write-
in candidates is August 27, 2021, so any action from the Council would need to take place after
that deadline.

                 Polly McLean stated since the Council will not have a meeting between the write-
in candidate filing deadline and when the ballots go out, there may need to be a meeting to cancel
the election in between those dates. She has sent an email to Sherrie Swensen, Salt Lake County
Clerk, to verify how she would like the Council to proceed.

               Mayor Smolka asked that this item be put on the next agenda.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legal Issues

               No further updates.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

               Mayor Smolka stated he approved expenditures from legal counsel, clerk
services, and payroll. He is waiting to see what funds the Metro Township will be getting from the
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). Salt Lake County Economic Development received a grant
for $50,000 from ARPA to study broadband in the township areas. They will be hiring a consultant
to complete the study.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Minutes

               Council Member Smolka, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
minutes of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council meetings held on April 27, 2021, and
May 18, 2021. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports



                                                6
DATE           TUESDAY                            JUNE                          22, 2021

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

             Council Member Brems stated the 2021-2022 budget was approved with
amendments. SLVLESA met and approved the ability to set a new tax rate and accepted an
independent audit that was completed.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

              Council Member Bowen stated the 2021 -2022 budget was approved with one
exception.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

              Council Member Bowen stated he received an email from the USDA, stating
canyon residents have access to its services.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

            Council Member Harris stated there is nothing to report from WFWRD. She has
dump vouchers if anyone needs one.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

            Council Member Harris stated she forwarded River Restorations’ summary to the
Council Members.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she will add the USDA information and Animal
Services’ information is on the website.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−


                                              7
DATE               TUESDAY                         JUNE                            22, 2021


CodeRED

             Council Member Hawkes stated she has been working with Captain Michael
Conn updating the residents on the red flag warning and will continue to do so. She may do a
message on the electronic message board to remind people about CodeRED.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

              Mayor Smolka stated MSD has moved to hybrid meetings. The position for
Executive Assistant has been posted and individuals are being interviewed.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Issues

               Nothing to report.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                     SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                     By: ____________________
                                       Deputy Clerk



MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                               8
DATE   TUESDAY                JUNE     22, 2021



                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                          9
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                  27, 2021

           THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, JULY 27, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON
TUESDAY, JUNE 22, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: POLLY MCLEAN, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
                       By: NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items, which it will consider at its public meeting
to be held tonight or at a future public meeting:

    General Plan update
    Emigration Canyon Road noise

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Citizen Public Input



                                                 1
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                 27, 2021


               Nichole Watt read the following email from resident Christopher Jones:

                The latest time of night that I was awakened by motor vehicle noise in
Emigration Canyon was approximately 01:30 A.M. The loudest nighttime vehicle noise
event I have heard felt like it was loud enough to damage my delicate elderly hearing
capability. In addition, I am also concerned that daytime loud neighborhood noise will
disrupt the afternoon naps that young children and the elderly could impair the much-
needed sleep that these more vulnerable populations need.

                Resident Bob stated his daughter has insomnia and has to wear earplugs
at night, the noise is an issue. The statute clearly states that exhausts have to be EPA
compliant. Officers needs smart phones that can be calibrated with a noise app. Officers
can pull over for noise but then check out what type of exhaust is on the vehicle.

                 Ms. Halbach stated it sounds like there is a challenge on the noise
confirmation; however, it is very clear when someone is speeding. There should be more
patrol for individuals that are speeding in the canyon.

              Mr. Halbach stated there is usually a police officer present by the
dumpsters across from his house in the morning when people are going to work. Officers
need to be there on weekends when people are coming up the canyon. Another issue to
consider is what effects does the noise have on wildlife.

               The following comments were submitted through Zoom chat during the
meeting:

               Mel Halbach posted, I live at 3748 Emigration Canyon and we can attest
to the increase of noise of motorcycles and vehicles on the road. I do not have a radar
gun, but speed of some vehicles is well over 80. It is now detrimental to back out of my
driveway without afraid of someone smashing into me.

              Janet Haskell posted, I live in Killyons Canyon, and we can hear the loud
motorcycles and racing cars on a regular basis and the noise is very loud and disruptive.

                Mel Halbach posted, great idea on stops at the bottom and top of canyon
for muffler compliance, you could also calculate ave speed form bottom to top of canyon
by how long it took them to get there.

                 Janet Haskell posted, Jake, are you aware of the racing cars that regularly
come to the canyon to race (twice a week or so in the evenings). Have you investigated
their activities? Very loud, and they race for quite a while each time.

               Bob posted, couldn’t a statutory fine be set, just like for speeding?

               Mel Halbach posted, they are also speeding.

                Bob posted, if people have non-compliant exhaust and break the noise law
can’t a fine be given. The measurement is not needed. If people have non EPA compliant
exhausts that’s illegal.


                                                 2
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                 27, 2021


              Fred Swason posted, I appreciate the patrol officers stepping up
enforcement. It seems like enforcing the exhaust system requirement is the key to this.
Could an statewide annual inspection system be adopted?

                 Bob posted, is there a way to push for a statutory fine for operating a
vehicle with an illegal exhaust? Non-EPA stamped exhausts, illegal aftermarket devices
that are for off road use only.

               Janet Haskell posted, thank you for hearing our concerns and working on
a proposal for addressing the problem.

               Robert Pinon posted, is there any comment on what happened a week
ago at the parking lot at the mouth of the canyon?

               Bob posted, the additional policing has been helpful. Thanks!

               Officer Jake Elsasser posted, there is a fine schedule for any of the
modified exhaust systems, though I don’t know how much it is. It was a suicide at the park,
I don’t know particulars as it was SLCPD’s area.

              Tim Harpst posted, Council could always hold meetings via Zoom even
when it goes back to in-person meetings. That would help max attendance.

              Jessica Steed posted, I’m looking at the website but don’t see anything
about racoons. What’s the scoop on raccoons or where can I find it?

               Robert Pinon posted, Steve Cornell just took a position with FFKR
Architects.

            Council Member Harris posted, Jessica, I think it’s in the most recent
ECCC newsletter.

               Jessica Steed posted, okay, thank you!

              Tim Harpst posted, the utility cut from last year in the new overlay just west
of Sunnydale Lane is failing and needs to be addressed. Quite a growing pothole.

               Council Member Harris posted, is this the area where there was a water
line break?

               Tim Harpst posted, yup.

              Council Member Harris posted, if so, I believe they’ll be addressing it at
the same time as they do the soft spots by the zoo and lower canyon road. Whenever that
is…

                Tim Harpst posted, I submitted a request to MSD a few weeks ago, but
haven’t heard anything back. Just needs to be repaired before winter. Drivers are veering
into bike lane to avoid the jolt. Thee must be a clear way to deal with the noise issue. I


                                                 3
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                  27, 2021

almost unmuted tonight more than once to let you hear the noise from my deck and I’m
1/3 mile above the road. Thanks, Council for all you do!

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Municipal Provider Reports

Emigration Canyon Community Council Report (ECCC)

               Bill Tobey stated the annual brush chipping service is completed, 110 households
participated this year. Information from households are being pulled to calculate time and
spending figures, those should be available by next month. The Acorn Hills shaded fuel break is
complete, the remaining tasks are preparing a maintenance plan and a commitment to ongoing
maintenance. The Forest Service Wildfire Research team has been working on surveying
household wildfire preparedness and perspective in Emigration Canyon and expects to have its
presentation in September. The newsletter was distributed on July 1 and the next one will be out
mid-August.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Officer Jake Elsasser reviewed call for service for the month of June 2021. There
were 101 calls for service with 27 initial reports. The Citizen Academy signup is available for those
that want to attend. It starts August 24, every Tuesday until November 2. There was a marathon
on July 23, there were a couple of issues with runners cutting corners and not staying on the
correct side of the road. He will be in contact with the event organizer to discuss some of the
concerns.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business

In-person and Hybrid Meeting Options

              Mayor Smolka asked what the Council’s opinion is on returning to in-person
meetings. He would like to continue with Zoom meetings because COVID-19 numbers are rising.

               Council Member Harris stated she agreed with Mayor Smolka.

             Council Member Brems stated the Council should watch the numbers and decide
on a month-by-month basis if it should return to in-person meetings and continue with Zoom.

             Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she prefers Zoom. There is more public
involvement when meetings are done over Zoom. She wants to assess the numbers and evaluate
moving forward.

               Mayor Smolka stated the August meeting will be held over Zoom.



                                                 4
DATE            TUESDAY                                 JULY                           27, 2021


                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

                Pam Roberts, General Manager, WFWRD, stated she is reaching out to the
municipalities to request funding for COVID-19 expenses. In regards to the reorganization of
WFWRD to a local district, all the municipalities have adopted resolutions in support of the
transition. The Salt Lake County Council will discuss the request at its next meeting.

                Council Member Harris, seconded by Deputy Mayor Hawkes, motion to approve
COVID-19 related expenses in the amount of $355.67. Mayor Smolka made a substitute motion
to include that funding comes from the CARES Act funds. Council Member Harris accepted the
substitute motion and Deputy Mayor Hawkes 2nd the substitute. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Electronic Meeting Policy

                The Council reviewed the following Resolution adopting an electronic meeting
policy:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-07-01                                                    Date: July 27, 2021

                          EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

          RESOLUTION FOR PARTICIPATION IN ELECTRONIC MEETINGS

        WHEREAS, the Township Council (“Council”) recognizes the need after holding electronic
meetings due to the COVID-19 pandemic over the last year and appreciates that the ability to
hold electronic meetings had expanded and the Council wishes to update its policy to increase
the ability to hold electronic meetings.

       WHEREAS, the purpose of this policy is to establish the means and procedures by which
the Township Council may conduct electronic meetings in accordance with the provisions of the
Open and Public Meetings Act (“Act”), and particularly §52-4-207 (UCA, as amended).

        WHEREAS, the Council finds it is in the best interest of the Council and the public to be
able to conduct telephonic or electronic meetings to assure that all members of the Council have
the opportunity to participate in meetings of the Township regardless of physical location of the
individual member of the Council.

      WHEREAS, the Council finds that the Township has adequate facilities to support the
conduct of a telephonic or electronic meeting.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township may allow
electronic meeting participation, and that the following rules shall be adopted:

          1.0   Application of the Act – definitions.



                                                  5
DATE        TUESDAY                            JULY                                27, 2021


           1.1    The Council hereby adopts those definitions of specific terms which appear
                  in the Act at §52-4-103 for application in this policy.

     2.0   Electronic Meetings

           2.1    The Council hereby determines that it may convene and conduct meetings
                  in which one or more Council Members attend and participate in the
                  meeting through electronic means.

           2.2    Electronic meetings may include meetings conducted by means of
                  telephone, telecommunications, or by other computerized, electronic, or
                  teleconferencing means and media.


     3.0   Notice and Quorum

           3.1    When conducting an electronic meeting, notice of the electronic meeting
                  shall be provided to the public and the members of the public body at least
                  24 hours before the meeting and a description of how the members will be
                  connected to the electronic meeting.

           3.2    The Council may participate electronically and be counted as present for
                  all purposes, including determination that a quorum is present.


     4.0   Public Attendance

           4.1    Staff shall provide sufficient and necessary space, equipment and other
                  means as required by the Act to allow the public to attend, monitor and,
                  where appropriate, participate in the public portion of any electronic
                  meeting conducted by the Council.

     APPROVED and PASSED this 27th day of July.

                                               Emigration Canyon Metro Township

                                               By: /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                   Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Township Clerk

              Mayor Smolka, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to approve
Resolution 2021-07-01. The motion passed unanimously.

                            −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                           6
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                  27, 2021

Legal Issues

               No updates.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

               Mayor Smolka stated invoices for CodeRED, Clerk services, and Workers
Compensation were approved. He presented a rough overview of the budget. There were some
additional funding for chipping services that will possibly come up next year and an increase in
legal funds.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the maintenance for the restrooms will need to be
included.

               Mayor Smolka stated he will look into it.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Brems stated he is the Chair for the Benefits and Compensation
Committee, and it has been working on getting officer compensation up to a competitive wage.
With Salt Lake City increasing officer pay by 30 percent, the committee is back to where it started.
SLVLESA has a reserve fund that has to be maintained and it has to maintain a certain amount
of funds, there is only about one-year before that fund is solvent. It will require a tax increase of
approximately 17 percent in order to meet the obligations of UPD.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

               Council Member Brems stated he has had conversations about what is going on
in the Planning Commission right now.

            Mayor Smolka stated the Planning Commission needs to start looking for a new
board member.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

               Council Member Bowen stated UFA did a fraud risk assessment and an audit
was done about three years ago by the State Auditor. An ethical and behavior statement has
been drafted for UFA employees to sign. UFA is sending volunteers all over the United States to



                                                 7
DATE            TUESDAY                              JULY                                  27, 2021

assist with various emergencies. UFSA discussed the design, remodeling, and complete rebuild
of several fire stations.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

               Nothing to report.

                                     −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               There are no further updates.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

                 Council Member Harris stated River Restoration is interested in getting more
information on its survey from canyon residents, and users of the canyon. They are gathering
information to outline the paths and responsibilities. Eric Hawkes, Emigration Improvement
District, is going to send out a reminder to residents to complete the survey. He will also provide
a monthly update for the newsletter.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she continues to update and maintain the website.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she continues to send CodeRED messages for
things like marathons, as they come in.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms

                 Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated two bids have come back higher than anticipated.
She is working on different ways to reduce the costs in the design build, site work contract, and
other areas. If the existing vault can hold water, it can be used and that will bring costs down. She
worked with DWQ to get the grant extended and is working with Polly McLean to get Salt Lake
County to contribute its matching funds. If Salt Lake County does not match the funds that they
promised, the Council will have to come up with additional funding.



                                                 8
DATE               TUESDAY                         JULY                                27, 2021


                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

                Mayor Smolka stated the application process for ARPA funds was completed and
the Metro Township will be getting the funds over a two-year period. The MSD has redone its
audit to find out what the issues there are. The budget is beginning, and the various departments
will be presenting their budgets to the Board of Trustees.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Issues

               Mayor Smolka stated he is working on H.B. 98 to try and keep inspection and
building permitting processes in the government entities instead of the private sectors.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                     SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                     By: ____________________
                                       Deputy Clerk



MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦



                                               9
DATE            TUESDAY                              AUGUST                               24, 2021

          THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 24, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT
ON TUESDAY, JULY 27, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: POLLY MCLEAN, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
                       By: NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items:

    Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan
    Emigration Canyon road noise.
    Septic Smart Week


                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING




                                                 1
DATE            TUESDAY                              AUGUST                                24, 2021

Citizen Input




                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Emigration Canyon Community Council Report (ECCC)

               Bill Tobey stated the cost for the Acorn Hills fire break was a little over $9,900.
The invoice has been mailed to the Metro Township. The Sustainability Alliance requested that
the ECCC fund a portion of the Watershed Celebration on September 18. Before the ECCC could
convene a meeting to discuss funding, the Emigration Canyon Improvement District (EID) Board
agreed to fund the Watershed Celebration in full. The ECCC is now going to help make the
celebration successful, they will work with UFA to provide information on wildfire preparedness.
The Council is going to try and hold the Firewise Open House this fall; however, with the rise in
COVID cases, it does not seem likely that it will be held before May 2022. The next issue of the
electronic newsletter is anticipated to be sent out on September 1.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                 Officer Jake Elsasser reviewed calls for service for July, there were 108 calls with
18 initial reports taken. The archery hunt started on Saturday, August 21. Several UPD units were
dispatched to Lambs Canyon to assist with the road closures caused by the fire up Parley’s
Canyon. There are continuing parking issues at Killyons Canyon, the cars are being issued
citations. Once the paving is done in that area, the gate will be locked to help prevent parking
issues.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

                Captain Michael Conn stated the fire in Parleys Canyon is official contained. It
was determined that it was human causes as is 55 percent of the fires this year. UFA decided
that they would open stations and being tours; however, with the current surge in COVID cases
the tours have been discontinued. Community events will be allowed as long as there are face
masks and social distancing is maintained. Fire crews have been deployed to Oregon,
Washington, Montana, and California among others to help with fires in those states. UFA
continues to get EMAC requests, especially from California. Each EMAC request is evaluated
individually and balanced so that services are not inhibited. Members of the Utah Task Force
teams have been deployed throughout the United States to help with the tropical storms. The 4th
and 24th of July saw an increase in calls and community complaints for fireworks. A couple
members retired in the last month and there have been promotions. UFA is trying to get Fire
School 101 started again and made available to the Council Members.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦


                                                 2
DATE           TUESDAY                              AUGUST                               24, 2021


Council Business

Resolution No. 2021-08-01 – 2021 General Election Cancellation

             The Council reviewed the following Resolution cancelling the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township’s November 2, 2021 election:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-08-01                                                   Date: August 24, 2021

       A RESOLUTION, PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE 20A-1-206, CANCELLING
       EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP’S NOVEMBER 2, 2021 LOCAL
       ELECTION AND DETERMINING THE UNOPPOSED DECLARED CANDIDATES
       TO BE ELECTED TO THE TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (hereafter “ECMT”) is a metro
township under Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-401 et seq., and

       WHEREAS, ECMT is governed by a five-member elected Council, each of whom is
elected at-large under Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-205.5, and

       WHEREAS, the terms of two members of the Council are set to expire at the end of 2021,
and

       WHEREAS, because of the expiration of terms, an election was called for November 2,
2021, pursuant to applicable sections of the Utah Code, to fill those two positions on the Council,
and

       WHEREAS, notice of the election was duly noticed to the public, and

        WHEREAS, only two candidates filed declarations of candidacy to run for the two open
positions on the Council, said candidates being ROBERT PINON and JOSEPH SMOLKA, and

        WHEREAS, as of August 24, 2021, no other individual gave notice of intent to run as a
write-in candidate, pursuant to Utah Code §20A-9-601, and

       WHEREAS, the deadline for write-in candidates to declare is August 30, 2021, and

       WHEREAS, due to ballot printing deadline requirements for mail in ballots the
determination of whether to print ballots is needed prior to September 17, 2021, and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Section 20A-1-206, municipal legislative body can
choose to cancel an election where the number of declared candidates, including declared write
in candidates, do not exceed the number of open council positions subject to election, and may
certify the unopposed declared candidates to be elected to the council and

        WHEREAS, a significant amount of money will be saved by ECMT by not holding a formal
election as allowed by the Utah Code, and




                                                3
DATE           TUESDAY                              AUGUST                              24, 2021

        WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Council wishes to inform the clerk of its
intention to cancel the election upon the expiration of the deadlines for others to declare for
candidacy, so ballots could be finalized, and committed to ratify the same at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.

NOW THEREFORE, IT WAS HEREBY RESOLVED, APPROVED AND CERTIFIED, by the
Council of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township that:

1.      The scheduled election for members of the Council, set for November 2, 2021 (the
“Election”) shall be cancelled if no write in candidates are submitted by August 30, 2021, and due
to the herein certified fact that in such case only two declared candidates are running, pursuant
to statutory requirements, for the two open positions on the Council that were to be chosen by the
Election.

2.     Effective January 3, 2022, the two unopposed candidates for the two open positions on
the Council, are hereby deemed to be elected to those positions, which unopposed candidates
are: ROBERT PINON and JOSEPH SMOLKA.

3.      Council’s clerk is instructed to take whatever action is required to give notice of the
cancellation of the election pursuant to Utah Code Section 20A-1-206 after August 30, 2021 if it
is determined that there are no write in candidates.

Approved this 24th day of August 2021.

                                                    By: /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                        Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Metro Township Clerk

              Council Member Bowen, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
the Resolution cancelling the November 2, 2021 election pursuant to there are no write-in
candidates. The motion passed 4 to 1, showing that Mayor Smolka abstained from the vote.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Resolution No. 2021-08-02 – 2022 SLVLESA Tax Increase

               The Council reviewed the following Resolution to approve the decision by the Salt
Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) Board of Trustees to increase the
property tax revenues:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-08-02                                                  Date: August 24, 2021

       A RESOLUTION OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
       COUNCIL APPROVING A DECISION, IF MADE BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
       OF THE SALT LAKE VALLEY LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICE AREA
       (SLVLESA) FOLLOWING PROCESSES REQUIRED BY UTAH LAW, TO



                                                4
DATE            TUESDAY                               AUGUST                                24, 2021

       INCREASE SLVLESA BUDGETED PROPERTY TAX REVENUES BY 16.5%
       FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2022 WHICH WOULD RESULT IN THE LEVY OF A
       PROPERTY TAX RATE IN EXCESS OF THE CERTIFIED TAX RATE
       PURSUANT TO SECTION 17B-2a-903 OF THE UTAH CODE.

       WHEREAS, the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (“SLVLESA”) was
created by Resolution of the Salt Lake County Council dated August 18, 2009; and

        WHEREAS, the area of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is included in the
boundaries of SLVLESA for the funding and provision of law enforcement services to the areas
within the boundaries of SLVLESA; and

       WHEREAS, SLVLESA contracts with the Unified Police Department (the “UPD”) to
provide law enforcement services within its boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the SLVLESA Board of Trustees, by a duly adopted Resolution dated August
19, 2021, stated its intent to increase its budgeted property tax revenues from prior year budgeted
property tax revenues by 16.5% for calendar year 2022 which would result in the levy of a property
tax rate in excess of the certified rate as defined in section 59-2-924 of the Utah Code; and

       WHEREAS, a report dated August 19, 2021 (the “Report”), a copy of which is attached,
was submitted to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council (the “Council”) pursuant to
section 17B-1-1003 of the Utah Code, providing the purposes for the increase in SLVLESA
budgeted property tax revenues; and

        WHEREAS, the purposes for the increase in SLVLESA budgeted property tax revenues
by 16.5% for calendar year 2022 as stated in the Report include the need to maintain the viability
of SLVLESA, increase compensation to be able to recruit and retain police officers, increase
staffing to meet rising caseloads, pay for the increased costs of cars, equipment and supplies, to
ensure that the target reserves for SLVLESA are met, to hedge against future loss of revenues
and unexpected expenditures and generally to meet the costs of law enforcement services for
SLVLESA members; and

       WHEREAS, the Council allowed time during the duly noticed meeting on August 24, 2021
for comment on the proposed tax increase from members of the Council and the public; and

         WHEREAS, section 17B-2a-903 of the Utah Code requires that before the SLVLESA
Board of Trustees can adopt a property tax levy for calendar year 2022 in excess of the certified
tax rate, it must have prior approval of the property tax increase from the legislative bodies of any
municipality and county whose territory is located within SLVLESA or approval of a majority of the
legislative bodies of the municipalities and two-thirds (2/3) vote of the county legislative body; and

        WHEREAS, before the SLVLESA Board of Trustees considers levying a property tax rate
that exceeds the certified tax rate, the SLVLESA Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on
December 16, 2021, to provide to all interested persons the opportunity to be heard regarding the
proposed property tax increase; and

       WHEREAS, SLVLESA shall provide notices of the public hearing as required by section
59-2-919 of the Utah Code; and



                                                  5
DATE           TUESDAY                             AUGUST                               24, 2021

        WHEREAS, after considering all public input from the public hearing and all other
information available to them, the SLVLESA Board of Trustees will vote on whether or not to
increase its budgeted property tax revenues for calendar year 2022 by 16.5% that would result in
the levy of a property tax rate that exceeds the certified tax rate.

        NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council as
follows:

   1. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council hereby reaffirms its authorization of the
      SLVLESA Board of Trustees to impose property taxes on the areas within the boundaries
      of SLVLESA.

   2. Pursuant to section 17B-2a-903 of the Utah Code, the Emigration Canyon Metro
      Township Council hereby approves a decision, if made by the SLVLESA Board of
      Trustees following the processes required by Utah law, to increase SLVLESA budgeted
      property tax revenues for calendar year 2022 in excess of prior year property tax revenues
      by 16.5% and to levy a property tax rate in excess of the certified tax rate to generate the
      increase in its budgeted property tax revenues as defined in section 59-2-924 of the Utah
      Code.

       DATED this 24th day of August 2021.

                                     EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
                                     COUNCIL

                                     /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                     Chair


ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN

             The Council opened the discussion to the public to receive input regarding the
SLVLESA tax rate increase.

              Bill Tobey asked to have the specific request reviewed.

               The resolution was shared during the meeting via Zoom, so the Council and those
in attendance could review it.

               Robert Macfarlane posted a comment in the chat section of the Zoom meeting.
He stated could SLVLESA look at an alternative total compensation plan that offered less of a
defined benefit program and increase the hourly wage.

              Council Member Brems, seconded by Deputy Mayor Hawkes, moved to approve
Resolution 2021-08-02. The motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−


                                               6
DATE            TUESDAY                             AUGUST                               24, 2021


Crosswalks

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she needs to coordinate with the engineers and
tabled the discussion until next month.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Special Event Permits

               Mayor Smolka stated there were some issues with the Deseret News marathon.
When the policy for permits was rewritten, there were requirements put in place for how many
cones needed to be place in the road to show that runners were on one side and cars were on
the other side of the road. The requirement on cones needs to be determined. There is an event
in September and the Haunted Half marathon in October.

                Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated there is a requirement that if there are over 400
participants then an electric sign needs to be placed at the bottom of the canyon. If there are an
additional 400 participants, then an electric sign needs to be placed at the top of the canyon as
well. These same guidelines could be followed with the cones.

                Mayor Smolka stated Salt Lake City needs to make sure they are better
coordinated.

                Officer Elsasser stated he will work with Salt Lake City and educate them on the
requirements.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Road Repairs

               Mayor Smolka stated a gas line was hit yesterday and today but were repaired
relatively quickly. There was a small issue during the rainstorm, work will be done on the
shoulders. There will be complete road closures as early as Thursday. Miller Paving received the
contract to pave Killyons Canyon and part of Pinecrest. The existing pavement and the dirt will all
be paved in Killyons Canyon. Miller Paving are doing some prep work with curbing and culverts.
He has not received a timeline on the restriping of the main road.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated Public Works is doing the regrading on Little
Mountain, is the drainage ditch by Pioneer Road going to be fixed.

                Mayor Smolka stated that is on Black Forest’s list.

             Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated there are areas where water is shooting across the
road because of the fill that came down from the jersey barriers.

                 Mayor Smolka stated he has talked to Public Works about it. Some of those
turnouts in Little Mountain keep getting bigger and bigger, there is no where to put the dirt. He




                                                7
DATE            TUESDAY                              AUGUST                                24, 2021

thought about having them fill the backside of the turnarounds so the dirt has some place to go
and cut down on the number of areas that people can pull out and park.

                Council Member Harris stated she drove the road during the rainstorms and mud
and water were coming from behind the jersey barriers. Is there an estimated timeframe that it
will be finished so Miller Paving can begin their work?

                Mayor Smolka stated Miller Paving will work on the lower part of Pinecrest, about
four or five houses below where the paving will stop. It will pick up again in upper Pinecrest, there
was not enough money to complete the entire road.

               Council Member Harris stated how will the residents be notified of the road
closures?

               Mayor Smolka stated there will be fliers and a message will be sent by CodeRED.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Hiring of an Administrative Assistant

               Mayor Smolka stated a job description needs to be created for an administrative
assistant and what the Council expectations are.

              Council Member Harris stated Council Member Hawkes and herself have been
working on defining what the duties and expectations are for an administrative assistant.

                Council Member Bowen stated the most effective way to determine a job
description is to sit down with the other townships that have administrative assistants and find out
what they are doing.

               This item will be discussed at a future meeting.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legal Issues

              Polly McLean stated the Planning Commission should convene to discuss
accessory dwelling units and if they need to be regulated. The flood insurance and FEMA
resolution needs to be updated to make sure the requirements are met.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

            Mayor Smolka reviewed the approved expenditures for July that include UFA for
Jim Woodward, Watershed Plan, and Clerk services. .

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                                 8
DATE           TUESDAY                              AUGUST                              24, 2021

Minutes

              Mayor Smolka, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve the
minutes of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township meetings held on May 24 and May 25. The
motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Brems stated there is nothing more to report.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

                Council Member Brems stated a couple members of the Planning Commission
attend tonight’s meeting, hoping that the Council is making progress on the General Plan.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

                Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she attend the UFA and UFSA Board meetings for
Council Member Bowen as he was unable to attend. The UFA Board reviewed invoices from the
ARPA fund in relation to COVID. The capital improvement fund has been depleted due to COVID
expenses and they are looking to member entities to replenish the fund. The mask guidelines
have been changed due to the increase in COVID cases. There will be a patch created with each
municipality’s logo and name that the firefighters will wear. The UFSA Board provided updates on
the building construction and budget, discussion on lease agreements and administrative reports.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

                 Council Member Bowen stated he received an email from the MSD regarding the
USDA program, he forwarded that to Deputy Mayor Hawkes. She recommended that rather than
posting it, the township will reference the service and then provide a link to the actual website.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

                 Council Member Harris stated WFWRD has initiated the process to become a
local district. The Salt Lake County Council voted to move forward with the reorganization. An
intent to reorganize will be drafted and then a comment period. After both of those take place



                                                9
DATE               TUESDAY                          AUGUST                              24, 2021

there be a resolution on the Salt Lake County Council agenda for approval. WFWRD is dealing
with a surge of COVID cases.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

              Council Member Harris stated she met with Eric McCulley, River Restoration,
and Bob Thompson, Salt Lake County, regarding the watershed project. Mr. Thompson
suggested to call this plan a supplement to the existing watershed plan. There will be some public
meetings held for canyon residents and other stake holders to discuss best practices.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she continues to update the website with
information that is provided to her.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

                Council Member Hawkes stated she sent out a CodeRED message regarding
the Parley’s Canyon fire. Captain Michael Conn and Chief Wayne Dial kept her informed of the
situation with the fire.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the restrooms are moving forward. She is working
with Polly McLean, Attorney, to get a cost-plus contract together.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Smolka stated Bart Barker, General Manager, MSD, is no longer with the
organization. The MSD has done a large reorganization and changed who is managing who.
August 27, there will be a session on capital improvement projects. Emigration Canyon has a
couple of projects on that list to be funded.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council




                                               10
DATE           TUESDAY                              AUGUST                             24, 2021

              Mayor Smolka stated the Board is looking at a slight rate increase at the transfer
station.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Issues

                Mayor Smolka stated there are two issues being worked on; one is the federal bill
for infrastructure and the other is HB98.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.




                                   SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                   By: ____________________
                                     Deputy Clerk



MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                               11
