                       Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
                              Staff/Public Meeting Agenda
                                                  January 25, 2022
                                                      7:00 PM

                                              Virtual Meeting Via Zoom

                                      https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408

                                      The Public May Attend Meetings
                         The Meeting May Be Closed for Reasons Allowed by Statute

Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(5) the undersigned, as Chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the electronic meetings of the Council will present a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

       The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under a “Moderate Level of Transmission” alert
stage for the COVID-19 pandemic; and

       The regular meeting place for the Council (the UFA Fire Station in the Canyon) does not have sufficient
space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing to keep people safe from infection.

        This written determination shall expire 30 days from today. This meeting will not have a physical anchor
location. All attendees will connect remotely via Zoom.com (https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408).

                                           −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Upon request with three working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District will provide free
auxiliary aids and services to qualified individuals (including sign language interpreters, alternative formats, etc.).
For assistance, please call 385-468-7130 – TTY 711.

                           The Public is Invited and Welcome to Attend the Staff Meeting



                                COUNCIL MEMBER SWEARING-IN CEREMONY

                                                    Joe Smolka
                                                    Robert Pinon




                                                 STAFF MEETING
       1.   Agenda Items (Discussion)

       2.   Utah Broadband Presentation Regarding Increasing Broadband Coverage (Discussion)

       3.   Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan Update (Discussion) – Matt Starley, Planner,
            MSD

       4.   Mayor Report (Discussion) – Mayor Smolka

       5.   Consideration of Resuming In-Person Meetings (Discussion)

       6.   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) Bond (Discussion)

       7.   Other Council Business (Discussion)



                                             PUBLIC MEETING

       1.    Welcome and Determine Quorum

             Joe Smolka, Mayor
             Jennifer Hawkes, Deputy Mayor
             David Brems, Council Member
             Catherine Harris, Council Member
             Robert Pinon, Council Member

       2.    Pledge of Allegiance

       3.    Recognize Visiting Officials

       4.    Public Hearing: None

8:15   5.    Election of Leadership

                   (a)     Election of Mayor (Motion/Discussion)
                   (b)     Election of Deputy Mayor (Motion/Discussion)

8:25   6.    Citizen Public Input

            (Individuals wishing to comment must access the meeting using the Zoom.com link above by the
            beginning of the “Citizen Comment” period. If an individual is unable to attend the meeting, they may
            email their comments to nwatt@slco.org to have them read into the record.)

       7.    Reports from other Municipal Providers

8:35        7.1    Emigration Canyon Community Council – Bill Tobey, Chair

8:40        7.2    Unified Police Department – Office Jake Elsasser

8:45        7.3    Unified Fire Authority – Captain Michael Conn

                   (a)     UFA Budget Presentation (Discussion)
        8.    Council Business

8:50         8.1   Appointment of Records Officer (Motion/Discussion)

8:55         8.2   Discussion and Possible Motion on the Hiring of an Emigration Canyon Metro Township
                   Administrator (Motion/Discussion)

9:00         8.3   Discussion and Possible        Motion    to   Assign/Reassign   Board   Appointments
                   (Motion/Discussion)

9:10         8.4   Discussion and Possible Motion to Appoint Jodi Geroux to the Emigration Canyon Metro
                   Township Planning Commission (Motion/Discussion)

9:15         8.5   Ordinance Enacting Title 12 Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code
                   Violations and Amending Section 1.12.010 (Motion/Discussion)

9:25         8.6   Legal Issues (Motion/Discussion) – Polly McLean, Legal Counsel

9:30         8.7   Budget Items

                   (a)    Approval of Expenditures (Motion/Discussion)

9:35         8.8   Consideration of Minutes

                    (a)   November 16, 2021
                    (b)   December 14, 2021

        9.    Council Member Reports

9:40          9.1 Council Member Brems

                    (a)   Unified Police Department & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
                    (b)   Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission

9:45          9.2 Council Member

                    (a)   Unified Fire Authority & Unified Fire Service Area
                    (b)   Salt Lake County Animal Services Advisory Board

9:50          9.3 Council Member Harris

                    (a)   Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
                    (b)   Watershed Plan

9:55          9.4 Deputy Mayor Hawkes

                    (a)   Website
                    (b)   CodeRED
                    (c)   Restrooms

10:00         9.5 Mayor Smolka

                    (a)   Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                    (b)   Landfill Council
                    (c)   Legislative Update
10:05   10.    Other Announcements:

        11.    Future Metro Township Council Agenda Items:

               10.1 Noise Ordinance

               10.2 Night Sky Ordinance

10:10   12.    Motion to Adjourn Meeting

Topic: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meeting
Time: January 25, 2022, 07:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

Join Zoom Meeting
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83328451408


Meeting ID: 833 2845 1408
One tap mobile
+16699009128,,83328451408# US (San Jose)
+12532158782,,83328451408# US (Tacoma)
To:      Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor and Council
From: Polly McLean, Cameron Platt
Date: January 24, 2022
Re:      Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code Violations


The documents for Item 8.5 of the January 25, 2022, Council meeting consist of the following:
1. An enacting ordinance to create an administrative code enforcement program for Emigration
   Canyon Metro Township.

      The enacting ordinance creates Title 12 Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4. The ordinance also amends
      existing code 1.12.010 “Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions” to allow the Township to
      enforce a violation of Township code through either a criminal (misdemeanor) or civil
      administrative process.

2. Exhibit A to the ordinance contains the language for the administrative code enforcement
   program.

      Exhibit A is an updated draft of an administrative code enforcement program that went
      through the Township Planning Commission in late 2019 but was never passed as an
      ordinance. The program allows the Township to issue violation notices, order abatement of
      conditions that violate Township code, and provides for appeal hearings and other processes
      to enforce Township code.

3. This staff report.
                                   ORDINANCE #2022– 01-01
  ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 12 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT FOR
    METRO TOWNSHIP CODE VIOLATIONS AND AMENDING SECTION 1.12.010

       WHEREAS, Utah Code 10-3b-501 vests the powers of municipal government with the
Metro Township Council (“Council”) and Mayor; and

       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“ECMT”) Council has enacted
ordinances to protect the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life within the Town, and

        WHEREAS, the Council finds that the enforcement of township ordinances, policies,
regulations, and applicable state statutes is an important public function vital to the protection of
the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:
       SECTION I: Title 12 “Administrative Code Enforcement For Metro Township Code
Violations,” Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4 are enacted as written in Exhibit A.
       SECTION II: Title 1, Chapter 12, Section 010 is amended as follows:
1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
        Any person found to have violated any provision or provisions of an ordinance included
in these revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor or a civil violation of Township code, and punished as provided by Township code
or state criminal code for Class B misdemeanors. The township has sole discretion in deciding
whether to file a civil or criminal case for the violation of any of its ordinances.
       Section III: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication.

        PASSED AND APPROVED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council, Utah,
this _____ day of ____________ in the year 2022.


                                               EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP



                                               Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST:


Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
                                            EXHIBIT A

            TITLE 12 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               FOR METRO TOWNSHIP CODE VIOLATIONS

                               CHAPTER 12.1 – GENERAL
12.1.010       SHORT TITLE.
This Title shall be known as the “Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code
Violations.” This Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Municipal Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation.

12.1.020      AUTHORITY.
The Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702– 703.7;
10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or successor
statute(s).

12.1.030         DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council finds that the enforcement of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Municipal Code and applicable state codes throughout the municipality
is an important public service. Code enforcement and abatement of illegal or dangerous conditions
are vital to the protection of the public’s health, safety, and quality of life. The Council recognizes
that enforcement starts with the drafting of precise, comprehensive, fair, and equitable regulations
that can be effectively applied in administrative hearings and judicial proceedings. The Council
further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial
and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a manner that
is fair and equitable to the Metro Township and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Metro Township Attorney to file a judicial
action to gain compliance.

12.1.040      SCOPE.
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Code. It has been designed as an additional remedy for the Metro Township to use in
achieving compliance with its ordinances.

12.1.050        EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED.
The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any provision of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Code but shall be read in conjunction therewith as an additional mechanism available
for the enforcement of the Code together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict
between this Title and another provision of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code, this
Title shall control. The provisions of this Title and all proceedings hereunder shall be construed
to give effect to the purpose of this Title and to promote justice.

12.1.060        CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.
The Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case, or
both, for the violation of any of its ordinances. The pursuit of the administrative remedies set forth
in this Title shall in no way interfere with the Metro Township’s right to prosecute ordinance
violations as criminal offenses in a court of law. If the Metro Township chooses to file both civil
and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other
remedies will be available.

12.1.070      EFFECT OF HEADINGS.
Headings contained in this Title are for reference purposes and shall not be deemed to limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or interpretation of any part or provision
hereof.

12.1.080         VALIDITY OF TITLE – SEVERABILITY.
If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining portions
of this Title. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this Title.

12.1.090       NO MANDATORY DUTY – CIVIL LIABILITY.
In establishing performance standards for or an obligation to act by Metro Township officers,
employees, or designees, the provisions of this Title shall not be construed as creating a mandatory
duty for purposes of tort liability.

12.1.100      GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.
For purposes of this Title:

(1)   Any gender pronoun includes the pronoun for any other gender(s).

(2)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

(3)   “Or” is always inclusive.

(4)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.

(5)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.

(6)   Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed
      according to their context and ordinary usage.

(7)   The term “include” is not exhaustive and does not create an exclusive list.

12.1.110        DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in
this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:

(1)   “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Emigration Canyon Metro Township may
      take on public or private property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove
      or alleviate a violation, including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding,
      and securing or replacement of property.

(2)   “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative Law
      Judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and


                                                   2
      administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
      applicable state codes.

(3)   “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
      Emigration Canyon Metro Township § Code 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4)   “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
      established in Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code § 8.1.

(5)   “Chief Building Inspector” means the official responsible for planning, directing, and
      managing the building inspection activities within the Metro Township.

(6)   “Council" means the Council of Emigration Canyon Metro Township

(7)   “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
      administrative fees, and costs.

(8)   “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
      ensure compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action,
      or an administrative code enforcement order.

(9)   “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(10) “Department” means the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department, or its designee.

(11) “Director” means the director of the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
     agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(12) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce the Metro Township Code
     or applicable state codes.

(13) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
     a property.

(14) “Fire Department” means the entity that is authorized and responsible for providing fire and
     emergency services to the Metro Township.

(15) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
     to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
     causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
     acts.

(16) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
     immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(17) “Legal Interest” means any interest represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
     quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic’s lien, or other
     similar instrument recorded with the County Recorder.


                                                3
(18) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
     of Emigration Canyon Metro Township, and such territory outside of this Metro Township
     over which the Emigration Canyon Metro Township has jurisdiction or control by virtue of
     any constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.

(19) “Minor violation” means nuisance violation, as defined by Utah state statute, regulation, or
     judicial opinion, to include:

      a.       Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning;

      b.       Unauthorized collections of unlicensed, unregistered, or inoperable motor vehicles;

      c.       Illegal dumping or accumulation of trash, litter, or weeds;

      d.       Nuisance noise and lighting;

      e.       Illegal advertising; and

      f.       The unauthorized erection and use of news racks, merchandise displays, mobile
               food vending, and other illegal uses.

(20) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Metro Township, representing that
     a property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(21) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
     Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
     have been either paid in full, or that the Metro Township has negotiated an agreed amount,
     or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In
     addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with
     the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
     informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
     correct the violations.

(23) “Person” means a natural person or a firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other
     association, or the authorized agent or employee of any of them, or any other entity
     recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.

(24) “Program” means the Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code
     Violations authorized under this Title.

(25) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor’s
     records.

(26) “Public Nuisance” means, in addition to the definition set forth in Utah Code § 76-10-801(1),
     any condition that constitutes a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, or that
     significantly obstructs, injures, or interferes with the reasonable use of property.

(27) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,


                                                 4
     dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as
     an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the
     person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a
     responsible person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.

(28) “Treasurer” means the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Treasurer as designated
     pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(29) “Written” means transcribed in comprehensible words or pictograms, and includes
     handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

(30) “Emigration Canyon Metro Township” means Emigration Canyon Metro Township, a
     municipal corporation under state law. May also be referred to “the Metro Township” and/or
     “the Municipality” pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).

12.1.111        ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

12.1.200       PART 2 – SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210       SERVICE OF PROCESS.

      A. Whenever service is required to be given under this Title for enforcement purposes,
         the document shall be served by any of the following methods, unless different
         provisions are otherwise specifically stated to apply:
              1. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the owner(s) or
                 other responsible person(s);
              2. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. If not
                 inhabited, the notice must also be mailed as in Paragraph A,1,a above. The
                 form of the posted notice shall be approved by the Town Ordinance
                 Enforcement Officer or his or her designee;
              3. Personal service pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 4(e)(1) or
                 rule 4(e)(5); or
              4. Published in a newspaper of general circulation where the identity or
                 whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be
                 ascertained through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable
                 under the circumstances, or where there exists good cause to believe that
                 the person to be served is avoiding service of process.
      B. Service by regular mail in the manner described above shall be deemed served on
         the third day after the date of mailing.
      C. If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid
         service even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect
         the validity of any proceedings taken under this Title.


                                                5
      D. The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any
         proceedings.


12.1.220       CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.

12.1.300       PART 3 – GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.

12.1.310        GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate
administrative enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any
designated enforcement official is authorized to enforce the provisions of the Metro Township
Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue notices of violation and
administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances and unlawful or
dangerous conditions upon public and private property, and use whatever judicial and
administrative remedies are available under the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.1.320        ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop and submit to the Metro Township Council for
approval such policies and procedures, relating to hearing scope and procedure, subpoena powers,
and such matters, as shall afford equal protection of the law to and protect the due process rights
of all parties.

12.1.330       AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

      A. The Director or any designated enforcement official, may, enter upon any property
         or premises to ascertain whether there has been a violation of any of the provisions
         of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code or applicable state codes and to
         examine or survey the property or premises, or to take such samples, photographs,
         or evidence as may be necessary to this end.

      B. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be (a) based upon
         reasonable cause and (b) carried out in a reasonable manner with reasonable prior
         oral notice to the responsible person and the property occupant. If the responsible
         person requests it, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before
         entering upon the property or into the premises.

12.1.340       POWER TO ISSUE CITATION.
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation to a person whenever any such official has reasonable cause to believe
(1) that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code has been or applicable state codes have
been violated and (2) that the person to be cited is responsible for the violation.


                                                6
12.1.350        FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Metro Township official
or agent, including but not limited to the Director and/or any authorized enforcement officials,
when in the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation
of this Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.1.360        FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.
It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.

       CHAPTER 12.2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                          PROCEDURES
12.2.010      AUTHORITY.
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the Metro
Township pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.20 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

      A. Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation
         of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist,
         the Director or enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to the responsible
         person. The notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply
         with Utah Code § 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

               1. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County
                  Recorder;

               2. Street address of violation;

               3. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

               4. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;

               5. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that
                  violates the applicable codes;

               6. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently
                  correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs,
                  demolition, removal, eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;

               7. A specific date by which the responsible party must correct the violations listed
                  in the notice of violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of
                  service unless the Director determines that the violation requires emergency


                                                 7
                  abatement under Section 12.2.200;

               8. An explanation of the consequences of failure to comply with the terms of the
                  notice of violation, which may include, but are not limited to, (i) civil penalties,
                  (ii) assessment of administrative fees or other costs incurred by the Metro
                  Township, (iii) recordation of the notice of violation, (iv) revocation of permits,
                  (v) withholding of future municipal permits, (vi) criminal prosecution, or (vii)
                  abatement of the violation by the City and the property owner’s repayment to the
                  City of the costs of the abatement; ;

               9. A statement that civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately upon expiration
                  of the date set in Subsection (A)(7) for correction of the violations;

               10. The amount of the civil penalty for each violation that will accrue daily until
                 the property is brought into compliance;

               11. An explanation of (i) the procedures to follow to appeal the notice and request
                 a hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530, and (ii) the consequences of failure to
                 request such a hearing; and

               12. An explanation of the procedures to follow to request an inspection after a
                 violation has been abated pursuant to Section 12.2.040

      B. More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if
         it encompasses different dates, or different violations.

      C. If a notice of violation is issued on the same property for a violation of the same provision
         of the Metro Township Code or Utah law within 12 months following the later of (i) the
         date of issuance of the first notice of violation or (ii) the date of the request for inspection
         under Section 12.2.040 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code, then the civil
         penalties associated with the second violation shall be doubled.

12.2.030       FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

      A. If the responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance
         period specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall accrue for each and every
         subsequent day of violation.

      B. Civil penalties accruing pursuant to Subsection (1) shall be immediately due and payable
         to the Metro Township.

      C. Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040         INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing
an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence
that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties shall
accumulate daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-
inspection fees shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.


                                                   8
12.2.200       PART 2 – EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210AUTHORITY.

      A. Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists, the Director
         may exercise the following powers without prior notice to the responsible person:

              1. Order the immediate removal of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry
                 until all repairs are completed, provided that any order prohibiting entry shall
                 specify how entry is to be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve
                 personal property, or for any other purpose, if any, during the abatement process.

              2. Post visible notice on the exterior of the property or structure that is deemed
                 unsafe that the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

              3. Board, fence, or otherwise secure the building or site;

              4. Raze or grade that portion of the property or premises necessary to prevent
                 collapse or remove any hazard to the public;

              5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent
                 life safety hazard; or

              6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the imminent life safety hazard.

      B. The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the
         property without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to
         abate the imminent life safety hazard.

      C. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the
         imminent life safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220       PROCEDURES.

      A. The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as
         necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the imminent life safety hazard. Costs incurred
         by the Metro Township during the emergency abatement process shall be assessed and
         recovered against the responsible person through the procedures outlined in Chapter 12.3
         of this Title.

      B. The Director may also pursue any other legal remedy to abate any remaining violations.

12.2.230       NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
Within 10 days after completion of an emergency abatement, the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township shall provide notice of the abatement action taken in accordance with the notice
provisions of Utah Code § 10-11-2(2). This notice shall describe in reasonable detail the abatement
action(s) taken and the cost thereof.



                                                9
12.2.300       PART 3 – DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310       AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may
demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section
12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to the responsible person pursuant to the Uniform
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining
the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition. Such
costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320       PROCEDURES.
Once the Director has determined that the Metro Township Chief Building Inspector or the Fire
Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property
shall be demolished.

12.2.400       PART 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal
remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes.

12.2.420       AUTHORITY.

      A. Any person violating any minor provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
         state codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as
         provided in this Part.

      B. A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
         enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Metro Township Treasurer’s
         Office, or other offices designated to receive payment on behalf of the Metro Township.

      C. Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance
         with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12.2.430.      PROCEDURES.

      A. Upon discovering any violation of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes,
         an enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to the responsible person in
         the manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The
         administrative citation shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.



                                                 10
      B. If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
         business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the
         enforcement official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative
         citation may be given to the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative
         citation may also be mailed to the business owner or any other responsible person in the
         manner prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      C. Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to
         obtain the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person
         refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not
         affect the validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

      D. If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation,
         then the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner
         prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      E. If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted
         in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the
         responsible person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      F. The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

      G. The failure of any person with a legal interest in the property to receive notice shall not
         affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440      CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

      A. State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

      B. Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
         and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450       CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

      A. The Metro Township Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil
         penalties for administrative citations.

      B. Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the
         administrative citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee
         Schedule.

      C. Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violation(s), nor shall it
         bar further enforcement action by the Metro Township.

12.2.500       PART 5 – HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510      DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code


                                                  11
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code. It is
the purpose and intent of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly
affected by an administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to
participate in the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the
administrative action. These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently,
expeditiously, and fairly resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520       AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS.
The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Metro Township Code violations.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing
process for any violation of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are handled
pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the
demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the
appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the
Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

      A. A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request
         an administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar
         days from the date of service of one of the following notices:

              1. Notice of violation;

              2. Notice of itemized bill for costs;

              3. Administrative citation;

              4. Notice of emergency abatement;

      B. The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law
         Judge. The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the
         signature of the responsible party.

      C. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
         Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

      D. Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing
         and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12.2.540       HEARINGS AND ORDERS.

      A. If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
         deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law
         Judge shall schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place
         of the hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.




                                                 12
     B. A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
        penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Metro Township before collection, if a
        hearing on that case has not already been held.

     C. At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to
        show that good cause exists, as defined in this Title, to do one or more of the following
        in addition to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Metro Township
        Code or applicable law:

             1. Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

             2. Postpone an abatement action by the Metro Township; or

             3. Excuse the responsible person’s failure to request a hearing within the 20-day
                period.

     D. If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions
        set forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of
        violation and any other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative
        Law Judge shall not accept any other evidence.

             1. If the preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations existed, the
                Administrative Law Judge shall enter an order requiring abatement of the
                violations, and the payment of all fines and fees. Fines shall accrue until the
                Director or other duly authorized representative of the Metro Township issues a
                Notice of Compliance stating the date on which the violations were actually
                abated.

12.2.550      NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
              HEARING.

     A. Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to the responsible
        person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

     B. The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and
        policies promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

     C. The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
        12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

     A. The responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law
        Judge for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may
        be disqualified in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an
        affidavit or unsworn declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable
        successor statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:

             1. State that the motion is filed in good faith;


                                                13
             2. Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other
                reason that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and

             3. State when and how the responsible person came to know of the reason for
                disqualification.

     B. The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the
        action to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew
        or should have known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

     C. The responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law
        Judge, unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible
        person did not know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

     D. The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
        taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the
        motion to the Metro Township Council.

     E. Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Metro Township Council will schedule and
        notice the matter for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Metro Township
        Council may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a special meeting to hear the motion
        before its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council shall first
        review the motion to disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs
        (1) and (2) of this Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements
        of this Section, the Council will deny the motion and remand the matter for review to the
        Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies
        the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section, the Metro Township Council
        shall determine whether the motion is legally sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the
        Metro Township Council determines that disqualification is warranted, it will assign the
        matter to another Administrative Law Judge. If the Metro Township Council determines
        that the motion to disqualify is not legally sufficient, it will remand the matter back to
        the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570      POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

     A. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations
        of Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Metro Township ordinances,
        and enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions
        of the Title.

     B. The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by
        one of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record
        the good cause on which a continuance is granted.

     C. The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign
        subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the
        witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the
        hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be
        borne by the party requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop


                                                14
           policies and procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code
           enforcement hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

     D. The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
        administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance;
        ordering compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any
        remedies available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the
        right to authorize the Metro Township to enter and abate a condition and/or violation;
        modifying an administrative code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary
        circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.

     E. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require the responsible person to post
        a code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
        enforcement order.

12.2.580        PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                HEARING.

     A. Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal
        rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of
        discovery may be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery
        shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not
        be released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing or such release is otherwise
        required by law. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing shall follow the
        procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

     B. The Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement
        hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable
        state codes.

     C. The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues
        at an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
        violations exist.

     D. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence
        in support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may
        be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or
        other electronic means.

     E. All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may
        be held at the location of the violation.

     F. The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
        representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney’s name, address,
        and telephone number must be given to the Metro Township at least one day prior to the
        hearing. If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Metro Township’s
        request, and all costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.

     G. No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that


                                               15
           extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590.       FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                HEARING.
Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will
result in a default judgment for the Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the hearing
has been provided.

12.2.591        ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

      A. Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue
         an administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or
         citation. The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of
         civil penalties and costs that are due pursuant to the Metro Township’s fee schedule and
         the procedures in this Title.

      B. The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties.
         This agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order.
         Entry of this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to
         appeal.

      C. The Administrative Law Judge may order the Metro Township to enter the property and
         abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles,
         garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Metro Township Code.

      D. The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the
         right to possess animals as provided in the Metro Township Code.

      E. As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
         condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person’s
         ability to complete compliance by specified deadlines.

      F. The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
         necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
         administrative code enforcement order.

      G. The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance
         bond to ensure compliance with the order.

      H. The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing
         of the order.

      I. The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of
         the methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.595        FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.




                                                 16
     A. Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set
        forth in the administrative code enforcement order, the Metro Township may abate the
        violation as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means
        to recover the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

     B. After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
        Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the actions taken to abate the relevant conditions
        and/or violations and determine compliance with the order.

12.2.600      PART 6 – ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS

12.2.610      APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
              DECISION.

     A. Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of
        this Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court
        within 30 days after the decision is rendered.

     B. No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
        officer’s decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

     C. Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall
        request a copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when
        necessary. The Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts
        to the reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs.
        The petitioning party’s failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the
        full costs for the record within 180 days after the petition for review was filed, shall be
        grounds for dismissal of the petition.

             1. If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is
                incomplete or unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the
                matter to the Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to
                complete the record. The district court may limit the scope of the supplemental
                proceeding to issues that, in the court’s opinion, need to be clarified.

     D. The district court’s review is generally limited to the record of the administrative decision
        that is being appealed.

     E. The district court shall:

             1. Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer’s decision and
                orders are valid; and

             2. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary,
                capricious, illegal, or an abuse of discretion.
    CHAPTER 12.3 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
12.3.100      PART 1 –RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION



                                                17
12.3.110       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the
issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.3.120       AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record
the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder’s
Office.

12.3.130        PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

      A. Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the
         property remains in violation after the deadline for compliance established in the notice
         of violation, and no request for an administrative hearing has been filed, the Director
         shall record a notice of violation with the County Recorder’s Office.

      B. If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Metro Township’s favor,
         the Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County
         Recorder’s Office.

      C. The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the
         legal description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

      D. The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested
         parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140       SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.
A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.150        FAILURE TO REQUEST.
The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160        NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE – PROCEDURES.

      A. When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person and/or property owner
         may request an inspection of the property from the Director.

      B. Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon


                                                   18
           as practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the
           order have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
           inspections have been performed.

      C. The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property
         owner in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines
         that:

      D. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

      E. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

      F. All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

      G. The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

      H. If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
         shall serve the responsible person and/or property owner with a written explanation
         setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of
         the methods of service listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.170       WITHHOLDING OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANT
               PROPERTIES.
The Metro Township may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that has been
requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code until the
Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s) pursuant to this Title. The
Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of satisfaction or
that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180        CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder’s Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.

12.3.200        PART 2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210        AUTHORITY.

      A. Any person violating any provision of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state
         codes, may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

      B. Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code or
         applicable state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil
         penalties.

      C. Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date
         and violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.



                                                  19
      D. Interest shall be assessed per Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate provided in
         Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Metro Township policy, on all outstanding
         civil penalties balances until the balance has been paid in full.

      E. Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
         state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Metro Township’s applicable fee schedule.

12.3.220       ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
         of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for each
         and every subsequent day of violation.

      B. Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Metro
         Township Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230       DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Metro
         Township fee schedule.

      B. Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
         compliance with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240       MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. Upon compliance with the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
         responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties based on good cause
         as defined in this Title or other extenuating circumstances.

      B. Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or
         her discretion, if the Administrative Law Judge finds good cause for such modification
         or waiver.

12.3.250        FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.
The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the
Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300       PART 3 – ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310        AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized
to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320       PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.


                                                 20
     A. The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under
        Section 12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or
        any applicable successor statute(s) if the responsible person:

             1. Does not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued
                pursuant to Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

             2. Did not file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing under
                Section 12.2.530.

     B. The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
        12.2.504, but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate
        the violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or
        applicable successor statute(s).

     C. The Director may use Metro Township personnel or by a private contractor acting under
        his or her direction or the direction of the Metro Township to abate the violation.

     D. Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
        reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation
        or administrative code enforcement order.

     E. If the responsible person abates the violation before the Metro Township performs the
        actual abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement
        order, the Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Metro Township against the
        responsible person.

     F. When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
        work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
        successor statute(s).

     G. The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance
        with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

     H. The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by the responsible person in
        response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals
        and any related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
        successor statute(s).

12.3.400      PART 4 – COSTS

12.3.410      DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

     A. The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials
        and other Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-
        inspecting properties throughout the Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance
        with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

     B. The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover


                                               21
           expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees,
           attorney fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred
           by the Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs
           shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines
           for violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420        AUTHORITY.

      A. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Metro Township on a property to obtain
         compliance with provisions of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes, the
         Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

      B. Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
         additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable
         Metro Township fee schedule as adopted in the Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430        NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

      A. Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Metro Township shall
         be provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

      B. Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
         other costs assessed. Re-inspection fees shall be assessed after two failed inspections.

      C. The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
         affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.

12.3.440        FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs, including re-inspection fees, by the deadline
specified in the invoice shall result in a late fee pursuant to Metro Township policy.

12.3.500        PART 5 – ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510        ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fees assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Metro Township fee schedule.


12.3.600        PART 6 –- INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610        CIVIL VIOLATIONS – INJUNCTIONS.
In addition to any other remedy provided under the Metro Township Code or state codes, including
criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Metro Township Code may
be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by the Metro
Township.



                                                  22
12.3.700       PART 7 – PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710       PERFORMANCE BOND.

      A. As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
         authority to require the responsible person to post a performance bond to ensure
         compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

      B. If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the performance
         bond will be forfeited to the Metro Township. The performance bond will not be used to
         offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with the case.

 CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
                        AND COSTS
12.4.100       PART 1 – CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

12.4.110        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil
penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Metro Township’s code enforcement system. The
procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial
remedies that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.4.120       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

      A. Once the Metro Township has abated a condition or violation on public or private
         property involving but not limited to weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or deleterious
         objects or structures, the Director shall prepare three copies of the Itemized Statement of
         Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the relevant conditions and deliver them
         to the Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the abatement.

      B. The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner’s last known address,
         a copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing him or her that a code enforcement
         tax lien is being recorded for the amount of the actual costs of abatement. Payment shall
         be due within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

      C. Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs, the Metro Township Mayor shall record
         a Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property subject to the abatement action(s)
         with the County Treasurer’s office.

      D. The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the
         notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect
         the outstanding costs of abatement.



                                                  23
12.4.130      PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.
Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real
property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140.       CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.
Once payment in full has been received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount
is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall
either record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial
institution with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the
County Recorder’s Office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same
information as provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction
of judgment shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200       PART 2 – COLLECTION BY WRIT
After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means, including (a) filing a writ with an applicable court for execution on personal property
owned by the responsible person, or (b) the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and
other income or financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400       PART 4 – ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER
               ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410        ABATEMENT FUND.
There is hereby established a revolving fund to be known as the “Abatement Fund” to defray costs
of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from the
responsible person and/or property owner as specified in this Title. The Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit, and collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered
or authorized under the abatement provisions of this Title.

12.4.420.       REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.
All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for actual abatement
costs shall be paid to the Metro Township Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to
the Abatement Fund.

12.4.430         CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.
Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant
to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Metro Township Council. Fees and costs
deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Metro
Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the Metro Township Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection.

12.4.440        ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Metro
Township. Civil penalties deposited in the fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the Metro Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish

                                                24
accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection.




                                                25
DATE            TUESDAY                              NOVEMBER                             16, 2021

          THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF
UTAH, MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2021, PURSUANT TO
ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA
ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                 POLLY MCLEAN, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      CAMERON PLATT, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

               The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical
distancing to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items:

    Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan

    Mayor Smolka updated the Council on the following items:
       • Installation and removal of power poles.
       • Pinecrest Canyon paving project has been delayed while a culvert is replaced.
       • An additional $600,000 has been allocated for repaving in Pinecrest Canyon.
       • The turnaround for the fire trucks in Killyons Canyon had its final inspection.
       • The sinkhole at the bottom of Sunnydale has been repaired.



                                                 1
DATE             TUESDAY                             NOVEMBER                           16, 2021

          •      Applications for the MSD General Manager position have been received and four
                 of fifty qualify.
          •      MSD bond documents are in the process of being completed.

    Public Notice postings

    Assign a Record’s Officer

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Public Hearing

2021 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Budget Adjustment

             THIS BEING THE TIME heretofore set for a public hearing to consider the 2021
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Budget Adjustment.

               Council Member Bowen, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to open
the public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

             Mayor Smolka reviewed the 2021 budget adjustment is to recognize the CARES
Act and ARPA funding.

                 No one spoke in favor of or in opposition to the 2021 budget adjustment.

               Council Member Bowen, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to close
the public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

               Council Member Bowen, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
the following Resolution 2021-11-01, opening and amending the 2021 annual budget:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-11-01                                              Date: November 16, 2021

       A RESOLUTION OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
       COUNCIL OPENING AND AMENDING THE ANNUAL BUDGET FOR THE
       YEAR 2021 FOR THE OPERATION OF THE TOWNSHIP.

       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council has previously adopted a
budget for the 2021 budget year; and

      WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township needs to open and amend the
adopted budget because of changes that have occurred during the year; and

       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council has held a public hearing
on the proposed amended 2021 amended annual budget for the Township;




                                                 2
DATE          TUESDAY                              NOVEMBER                          16, 2021

     NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE EMIGRATION
CANYON METRO TONWSHIP:

   1. That the attached exhibit A is hereby adopted as the amended 2021 annual budget for
      the operation of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township for the 2021 calendar year.

   2. This resolution shall take effect upon passing.

                                                          Mayor

                                                          /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                          Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN

The motion passed unanimously.

                               −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
2022 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Budget

             THIS BEING THE TIME heretofore set for a public hearing to consider the 2022
Emigration Canyon Metro Township annual budget.

              Mayor Smolka reviewed the 2022 annual budget.

               Council Member Harris, seconded by Deputy Mayor Hawkes, moved to open the
public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

              No one spoke in favor of or in opposition to the 2022 annual adjustment.

               Council Member Harris, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to close
the public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

               Council Member Brems, seconded by Council Member Bowen, moved to
approve the following Resolution 2021-11-02, considering the 2022 annual budget:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-11-02                                            Date: November 16, 2021

      A RESOLUTION OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
      COUNCIL ADOPTING THE ANNUAL BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2022 FOR THE
      OPERATION OF THE TOWNSHIP

        WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council has previously adopted a
tentative budget for the 2022 budget year; and

        WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township has made the tentative budget
available to the public for review and consideration as required by law; and



                                               3
DATE            TUESDAY                            NOVEMBER                          16, 2021


       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council has held a public hearing
on the proposed 2022 annual budget for the Township;

     NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE EMIGRATION
CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP:

   1. That the attached exhibit A is hereby adopted as the 2022 annual budget for the
      operation of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township for the 2022 calendar year or until
      such time as it may be amended.

   2. This resolution shall take effect upon passing.

                                                          Mayor

                                                          /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                          Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN

The motion passed unanimously.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Citizen Input

                None

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Rocky Mountain Power Community Renewable Energy Program

               Lindsay Beebe, Senior Campaign Representative, Utah Sierra Club, stated she
has worked with city advocates and Rocky Mountain Power to help draft legislation to create the
Community Renewable Energy Program. The program is the first of its kind in Utah that allows
for community directed renewable energy development that would achieve 100 percent net
renewable electricity for participating communities by 2030. There is an opportunity to build
close to 7,200 gigawatts of clean energy in Utah, which would provide benefits to the local
economy as well as reduce the load on long transmission lines. Salt Lake and Summit County
were the original participants that brought Rocky Mountain Power to the table to negotiate.
Since then, there have been 15 other municipalities, cities, and counties across Utah that have
signed on to join the program. The program is voluntary and allows municipalities to exit the
program during the opt out period. If Emigration Canyon Metro Township joins the program it
would be responsible to pay an administrative cost of $456 in phase one. During phase two
there would be another cost of $456 and then a second payment of $446. The Council would
need to pass a resolution approving the governance agreement. The deadline to join is May 31,
2022.




                                               4
DATE           TUESDAY                              NOVEMBER                            16, 2021

               Council Member Brems asked how many homes in Emigration Canyon
currently have photovoltaic arrays or the amount of renewable energy that is being produced in
the Canyon.

               Ms. Beebe stated she does not have that information.

              Council Member Brems stated he would like Emigration Canyon Metro
Township to support and be part of this program.

               Mayor Smolka stated he does not think the Council should support the program.
The Metro Township will have to pay into the program for quite a few years and it locks the
residents into a higher rate on their power bills. The Council passed a resolution in 2019 to
acknowledge its intent to study and consider participation in the program. The Council
requested additional information from Rocky Mountain Power but has never received it.

               Council Member Brems stated the funds being asked for will be used to allow
the Metro Township to remain active in the program and gather more information. Even if the
Metro Township chooses to participate in the program, individuals can opt out. This is a good
deal for residents in the canyon.

                Ms. Beebe stated the cost for the first and second year is $456 per year for
administrative fees that will help determine program rates and cost projections. During the
program design phase, the Utah Public Service Commission will be presented with more
detailed information on impact rates for municipalities and individual residents. In approximately
two years, municipalities that want to participate will need to pass an ordinance to finalize its
participation in the program.

                Council Member Harris stated it makes sense to be involved in a program like
this. It does require a small financial commitment that works out to be about $.30 per resident.
There has not been a lot of discussion since the program was introduced in 2019. It would be
beneficial to get regular updates to keep the Council informed.

                Council Member Bowen stated given the growth of other technology, he
questions if this program is worth participating in.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she is inclined to support the program for the next
two years so she can get more information. The presentation that Rocky Mountain gave to the
Council in 2019, was not informative and the Council has not been given information since. If
the Council decides to participate, it needs more information and will need to be continuously
updated.

              Council Member Brems stated the Council needs to be kept updated on the
program, how it is working, and how it effects residents.

             Ms. Beebe stated the Community Renewable Energy Agency has a public
meeting once a month and if the Metro Township joins the program, it will have a voting seat on
the Agency.




                                                5
DATE            TUESDAY                               NOVEMBER                              16, 2021

               Mayor Smolka stated because nobody has reached out to the Council to provide
information is a big negative. The Council was promised it would receive additional information
and it has not heard anything.

               Council Member Brems asked what is being requested from the Council
tonight.

                Ms. Beebe stated there are a couple of different options the Council can take. If
it would like more information about the program, there are representatives from the Agency
that can present and answer questions. If the Council feels it has enough information at this
time, it can proceed with a resolution approving the governance agreement.

              Council Member Brems suggested that the Council review the information that
Ms. Beebe emailed to the Council and then have a representative attend the next meeting to
provide a more thorough explanation of the program and answer questions. In the meantime,
Polly McLean can review the governance agreement.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Emigration Canyon Community Council Report (ECCC)

               Mayor Smolka stated Bill Tobey is unable to update the Council tonight.

               Council Member Harris stated she will forward the email with Bill Tobey’s
update to the Council.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Detective Jake Elsasser reviewed calls for service for the month of October. In
future reports, he will include the time that the incident took place.

               Cameron Platt asked if there are any updates on the resolution of the citations
that were issued for noise.

                 Chief Wayne Dial stated the court report is showing that individuals that were
issued a citation are paying the fine and not fighting it in court. He will continue to follow-up with
the courts to see how the other cases are being finalized. As the warmer months approach and
more people are out, UPD will continue to monitor and enforce the noise ordinance. As the
Council considers funding for the next year, he would like it to consider purchasing a sign board
for the top of the canyon to educate people on enforcement actions.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)




                                                  6
DATE           TUESDAY                             NOVEMBER                            16, 2021

                Captain Michael Conn updated the Council on Captain Merrill Bone’s passing.
UFA and Salt Lake County Fire is celebrating its 100th anniversary in November 2021. Several
new employees have been hired including paramedics that have been hired on a lateral process
from other organizations. There will be a lot of movement within UFA after the first of the year
with several promotions and retirements. Recruit camp starts in February with 30 new members.
Some of the older UFA fire stations are going through a seismic retrofit. He has put in a request
for an operations chief to attend the next meeting to discuss and answer questions regarding
the budget process.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business

Resolution 2021-11-03 – 2022 Consolidated Fee Schedule

              The Council reviewed the following Resolution adopting the 2022 fee schedule:

RESOLUTION NO. 2021-11-03                                             Date: November 16, 2021

       A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A FEE SCHEDULE FOR FEES AND OTHER
       ASSESSMENTS FOR SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON
       METRO TOWNSHIP FOR 2022 AND REPEALING AND REPLACING
       RESOLUTION 2020-11-03

                                          RECITALS

   A. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) is a municipality
      pursuant to Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq. and as such has the
      power to assess and collect fees for services and to recover the reasonable cost of
      regulating certain activity within the Township.

   B. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal
      legislative body of Emigration Canyon pursuant to UCA §10-3b-501.

   C. The Township provides services and regulates activity within the Township and in this
      regard has previously established or been the successor of Salt Lake County to
      previously established fees and assessments for these services and activities.

   D. The Council feels it is necessary to repeal and replace the previously adopted fee
      schedule to reflect increase costs and other changes in the Township activities.

                                         RESOLUTION

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council that the attached Exhibit A hereto is hereby adopted as the Fee Schedule for the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township to be in effect on January 1, 2022 until amended or
replaced pursuant to law and Resolution 2020-11-03 is hereby repealed.




                                               7
DATE           TUESDAY                            NOVEMBER                          16, 2021

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah, this 16th day of November 2021.

                                                         MAYOR

                                                         /s/ JOE SMOLKA
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Clerk

              Council Member Bowen, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2021-11-03. The motion passed unanimously.

                               −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Ordinance 2021-11-01 – 2022 Meeting Schedule

             The Council reviewed the following Ordinance adopting the 2022 Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council meeting:

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-11-01                                            Date: November 16, 2021

       AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
       COUNCIL APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE 2022 EMIGRATION CANYON
       METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REGULAR MEETING SCHEDULE

       WHEREAS, Utah Code 10-3-502 requires the council by ordinance prescribe the time
and place for holding its regular meeting and hold a regular meeting at least once each month;
and

      WHEREAS, Utah Code 52-4-101 et seq. requires that metro township council meetings
be compliant with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act; and

        WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council (“Council”) met in regular
session on November 16, 2021 to consider adopting Emigration Canyon Metro Township’s 2022
regular meeting schedule;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council, the Council adopts the attached 2022 Emigration Canyon Metro Township Regular
Meeting Schedule.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah, this 16th day of November 2021.

                                                         MAYOR

                                                         /s/ JOE SMOLKA
ATTEST:



                                              8
DATE           TUESDAY                            NOVEMBER                              16, 2021


/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Clerk

             Council Member Harris, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to approve
Ordinance 2021-11-01. The motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legal Issues

             Polly McLean stated if Robert Pinon, Council Member elect, has any questions,
he can reach out to her. She will also send out the training information for newly elected
officials.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

               Mayor Smolka reviewed the Clerk’s and Acorn Hills fire break invoices.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Minutes

              Council Member Brems, seconded by Deputy Mayor Hawkes, moved to approve
the minutes of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council meeting held on October 26,
2021. The motion passed unanimously.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Brems stated UPD is working with a lobbyist to help research
different sources of revenue to fund UPD.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

               Council Member Brems stated he and Robert Pinon will meet with a
prospective planning commission member in the next week or so.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)



                                              9
DATE           TUESDAY                              NOVEMBER                            16, 2021


                Council Member Bowen stated the seismic upgrade to the Emigration Canyon
fire station has been completed, the upgrades were very minimal. There will be a major remodel
of the plumbing system at the Emigration Canyon fire station and will be completed early next
year. The process of replacing Chief Dan Peterson has begun.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

               Nothing to report

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

               Council Member Harris stated the 2022 budget was passed by the Board
without a fee increase. For the last three months, it is earning money for recycling and that is a
huge turnaround.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

              Council Member Harris stated she will be meeting with Sandy Wingert, UDWQ,
and River Restoration to discuss future items.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she has made some updates and will be posting
the Emigration Canyon Metro Township 2022 budget. The domain name needs to be
transferred to the program that is used for the Council’s website. She will try and get that
transferred over a holiday weekend.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she would like to send a CodeRED message to
residents regarding the helicopters.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms




                                               10
DATE               TUESDAY                          NOVEMBER                           16, 2021

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated while cleaning the restroom vault it was
discovered that there are two vaults. She asked the Council for its thoughts on if it wants to
leave the configuration the way it is. She will be attending an upcoming grant workshop to see if
there are additional opportunities to fund the restrooms.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               The MSD report was given in the Staff Meeting.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Mayor Smolka stated the next meeting is on December 8.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Update

              Mayor Smolka stated he is watching H.B. 1003 that will take jurisdiction away
from municipalities on home inspections and plan permitting.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Other announcements

              Captain Michael Conn recognized Council Member Bowen for being a
supporter of UFA and thanked him for always being informed and engaged.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this
time, the meeting was adjourned.




                                   SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                   By: ____________________
                                       Deputy Clerk



MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                               11
DATE   TUESDAY                NOVEMBER   16, 2021



                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                         12
DATE            TUESDAY                              DECEMBER                             14, 2021

          THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2021, PURSUANT TO
ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA
ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      GARY BOWEN
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                 CAMERON PLATT, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

               The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under an “Yellow” alert
stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items:

     Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan.
     Discussion on the Emigration Canyon Metro Township budget.
     Mayor Smolka updated the Council on the following items:
        • Proposed limestone quarry in Parleys Canyon.
        • Repair work from a leak on Sunnydale.
        • Installation of power poles in the canyon.
        • Installation of CenturyLink fiber optic lines.
    Consideration of resuming in-person meetings.




                                                 1
DATE            TUESDAY                              DECEMBER                              14, 2021

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Recognize Visiting Officials

              Robert Pinon, Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission,
introduced Jodi Geroux and stated she is being considered for the appointment of Planning
Commissioner for the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission.

             Jodi Geroux stated she has lived in Utah since 2005 and moved to Emigration
Canyon about seven months ago.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Citizen Input

               Eliza Cowie, Government Relations, o2 Utah, stated she is following up with the
Council on the status of the Community Renewable Energy Program.

                Mayor Smolka stated the Council will be discussing this item later in the meeting.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from Municipal Service Providers

Emigration Canyon Community Council Report (ECCC)

                Mayor Smolka stated Bill Tobey sent an email updating the Council on the
Firewise grants. The U.S. Forest Wildfire Research team has scheduled a meeting on January
26, 2022, to present the findings of its study regarding wildfire.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Detective Jake Elsasser reviewed November calls for service stating there were
77 calls for service with 22 initial reports taken. He will put the time that the call was dispatched
for the Councils reference.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

               Captain Michael Conn reviewed the November monthly report. Twenty-one
recruits have been offered jobs and will begin camp in February. Construction continues for five
stations and the was a ground-breaking at station 102 in Magna. UFA vaccination rate is at 90
percent and efforts to get employees a vaccination booster is underway. A committee was formed


                                                 2
DATE               TUESDAY                           DECEMBER                              14, 2021

to begin the process of replacing Chief Dan Peterson who is retiring in the Spring. The scheduling
and payroll software that UFA uses were breached and is being held up by ransomware.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business

Resolution 2021-12-01 – Community Renewable Energy Program

                Christopher Thomas, Community Renewable Energy Agency, presented a
PowerPoint presentation regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program Governance
Agreement and progress update. He reviewed what the community renewable energy program
is, participation status of municipalities, comparisons between different renewable energy
programs, the governance agreement, program implementation expenses, Community
Renewable Energy Agency voting, project timeline, and the Agency structure.

                   Council Member Brems stated if the program is implemented what does the costs
look like.

                 Mr. Thomas stated it is hard to determine what the cost is right now; it will depend
on a lot of different factors.

                   Council Member Bowen asked what is the source of the renewable energy that
is will be used.

              Mr. Thomas stated state law defines what type of resources are considered
renewable for the program. Wind, solar, geothermal, and other enabling technology will all be
considered.

               Council Member Bowen stated he does not think this program will serve the
residents of Emigration Canyon.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the presentation stated that the estimated rates
would be available in the spring; however, the deadline to sign up for the program is May 31. The
Council will need the rate information to compare to the existing costs that residents are paying
now. Will the estimates be available in the spring?

                 Mr. Thomas stated the Agency board is doing its best to get those estimates out
by May 31. This is a new program and one of its kind in the country, so it is inventing the wheel
as it goes. If the rate estimates are delayed, the deadline date will be extended.

                 Council Member Harris stated the Agency Board is very large and will continue
to get bigger if fall the municipalities join. How will the Board work with it being so large?

               Mr. Thomas stated there can be up to 23 participating communities and that does
make for a big board. Since the board is larger, it has been separated into working committees
that the board members sit on and then the final decision will go to the full board.




                                                 3
DATE           TUESDAY                              DECEMBER                             14, 2021

              Emily Quinton, Secretary, Community Renewable Energy Agency, stated the
board has come up with a good process. The entire board meets monthly and the committees
meeting more frequently depending on the issue.

               Mayor Smolka stated he is concerned about the weighted voting. Because of the
size of Emigration Canyon, its vote is not considered as strongly. The rates and impacts to
residents are unknown at this time. Many of the residents in the canyon already have solar and
this program may impact their bills. The presentation was more about the Agency and not about
the program, he needs more information about the program.

             Council Member Brems stated the cost to continue with the program and get
answers to questions is nominal. If the Council does not like the information presented, then it
can opt out.

               Council Member Harris stated since the Council will get a new Council Member
in January, she would like to table the decision and revisit it in February.

               Cameron Platt stated if the Council approves the agreement and resolution, it
preserves its ability to join at a future date. The state statute requires that the board produce a
plan and allow municipalities to withdraw. The weighted voting is likely to be the general rule.
There will be about five municipalities that will control the vote. The metro township can join now
and withdraw later.

              Mr. Thomas stated the Council can make the first payment and if the Council is
not happy with the progress, it can opt out of making the second payment.

               Mayor Smolka stated the discussion will continue in February.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Administrator

                Mayor Smolka stated he invited Brooke Barnes, Human Resources and Payroll
Specialist, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD), to the meeting to help the Council
with the hiring of an administrator.

               Brooke Barnes stated she sent job descriptions from Magna, White City Metro
Townships, and the Town of Brighton to Mayor Smolka. She would like the Council to review the
job descriptions and pick and choose what items they want to include in the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township Administrator job description. She will then put together a job description and
when the Council ready, she will post the job description and help with the interview process.

            Council Member Brems asked how much money is allocated to an administrator
and how many hours would that person work?

               Mayor Smolka stated the Council has budgeted approximately $20,000 - $25,000
annually.

               Council Member Bowen asked if that amount includes benefits and salary.



                                                4
DATE           TUESDAY                              DECEMBER                            14, 2021


               Ms. Barnes stated that amount would be for wages only, there is not a benefit
option.

               Council Member Brems asked if this position would be part-time.

             Ms. Barnes stated it would be part-time, 10 – 15 hours a week, depending on how
much work you have for that person. The average hourly rate is $18.00 - $20.00 per hour.

             Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated FICA and Medicare will need to be factor in when
deciding wages.

                Ms. Barnes stated the FICA and Medicare taxes would need to be matched and
are the only benefits that would be matched. An employee needs to work 30 hours or more to be
benefit eligible. If the Council decided to offer benefits, it would need to work through the Utah
Local Governments Trust and join the large group association to get full-time positions signed up
for benefits. The employee can also be hired through a contract; however, the salary would be
paid through accounting instead of payroll.

              Council Member Bowen suggested having one or two Council Members work
with Ms. Barnes to finalize the job description.

               Council Member Brems stated he would help.

               Council Member Harris stated she would be able to help after the first of the year.

              Ms. Barnes stated she will reach out to Council Members Brems and Harris to set
up a time to meet.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Assign / Reassign Board Appointments

                Mayor Smolka stated board assignments are typically done in January; however,
there will be a Unified Fire Authority (UFA) and Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Board meeting
prior to a Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council meeting. He would like to appoint someone
to the UFA and UFSA Boards, effective January 3, 2022.

               Council Member Harris stated she is interested in being appointed to these
boards.

               Mayor Smolka, seconded by Council Member Bowen, moved to appoint Council
Member Harris to the Unified Fire Authority and Unified Fire Service Area Boards. The motion
passed 4 to 1, showing Council Member Harris abstained from the vote.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission Appointment




                                                5
DATE           TUESDAY                            DECEMBER                           14, 2021

              Mayor Smolka stated the Council will consider the appointment of Jodi Geroux at
the January, 2022 Council meeting.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) Bond

               Mayor Smolka stated the bond is moving forward and will be going with a private
offering as opposed to a public offering. The availability of money and potential of having an
almost equal interest rate is right now.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
ARPA Funds

             Mayor Smolka stated getting funding for the restrooms has been difficult. ARPA
funds may be able to be used for the restrooms.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she has looked at outdoor recreation grants. A lot
of the available grant money is for new construction. She wants to move forward and possibly
propose building restrooms at a location the Council has previously discussed. She is also
working with Helen Peters, Director, Salt Lake County Regional Transportation, Housing, &
Economic Development, on other resources to get the restrooms completed. ARPA funds would
be a good to fall back on.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

              Mayor Smolka stated invoices from Polly McLean, Clerk servicers, Acorn Hills,
and payroll have been approved. He expects an invoice for the first installment of snowplow
services.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Brems stated SLVLESA adopted a tentative budget and will be
working with lobbyists to find sources of income for UPD officers.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Planning Commission

               Nothing to report.




                                              6
DATE           TUESDAY                              DECEMBER                            14, 2021

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

               Council Member Bowen stated he will make sure UFA and UFSA gets notice that
Council Member Harris will be the representative for Emigration Canyon Metro Township. UFA is
in the process of creating a special committee to hire the next fire chief.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

               Nothing to report.

                                     −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

                  Council Member Harris stated the decision on if WFWRD will be able to convert
to a local district is still an ongoing concern. WFWRD is waiting Salt Lake County Council to make
a decision. Several homes in upper Pinecrest did not get their garbage collected. She spoke to
Pam Roberts, General Manager, WFWRD, and she will try and get crews up there tomorrow if
the storm is not too bad.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

               Council Member Harris stated she will not be meeting with Sandy Wingert,
UDWQ, and River Restoration until after the first of the year to discuss the progress and goals.
She spoke with Eric McCulley about the timeline for grant applications and he thinks there will be
some information coming out of the report that will help obtain grants. The third best practices
session will be on January 11, 2022, via Zoom.com.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she updated the website with information on the
last watershed meeting.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she sent a message out regarding garbage pickup.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−


                                                7
DATE               TUESDAY                         DECEMBER                       14, 2021


Restrooms

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she thinks two separate grants can be applied for:
one for new construction and one for restoration of the existing restroom.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Smolka stated a new General Manager was hired and will be announced
on Thursday.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Update

               Mayor Smolka stated the MSD is getting ready for several items that will be
discussed at the legislature in 2022. He is also watching H.B. 98.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.




                                     SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                     By: ____________________
                                         Deputy Clerk



MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                               8
DATE   TUESDAY                DECEMBER   14, 2021


                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                          9
