                                         Request: Recommendation of Approval

                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         matthewstarley@Msd.utah.gov




               2022 General Plan Summary and
                     Recommendation
Public Body: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council

Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meeting Date: March 22, 2022

Location: All locations within Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council

Request: Approval and Adoption of General Plan

Applicant Name: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Plan Steering Committee

Planner: Matthew Starley

Planning Staff Recommendation: Approve General Plan with Revisions as Outlined




1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting a recommendation of approval to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council of the Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022. This General Plan is Emigration Canyon’s first
comprehensive plan since the community incorporated as a metro township in 2017. The Plan
synthesizes data and public feedback to describe current conditions, establish a vision for Emigration
Canyon’s future, and guide Emigration Canyon from its present conditions toward its desired vision. This
General Plan meets the required State laws for general planning, including elements on Land Use and
Transportation. It also includes the following supplemental elements: Introduction, Economic
Development Considerations, Environment, and Resilience and Infrastructure. The General Plan and its
Appendix can be found here: http://bit.ly/lrp-ec
                      Request: Recommendation of Approval

                      Planning and Development Services
                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                      matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov


2 SUMMARY

2.1 BACKGROUND
Emigration Canyon became an independent municipality with its own governing authority in 2017 after
a vote of Emigration Canyon residents in 2015. Emigration Canyon is governed by an elected legislative
council. The Council has the authority to enact laws and ordinances to carry out its responsibilities such
as land use and development regulations (zoning), as long as these laws and ordinances are consistent
with the Utah Municipal Code and other state statutes.

Emigration Canyon is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD), a special local
district established in 2015. The MSD provides Emigration Canyon with planning and development,
business license, building inspection, and code enforcement services as part of its membership
agreement. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council appoints a Planning Commission, working
with MSD Planners, to make recommendations regarding land use decisions to the Council. The Council
also appoints a General Plan Steering Committee to work with MSD Long Range Planners on the
development of Emigration Canyon’s General Plan.

The General Plan Steering Committee and Planning Commission make recommendations to the Council
regarding the adoption and amendment of the General Plan. The Council can adopt, reject, or revise a
recommended General Plan. To support the development of this Plan, the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council appointed the following members of the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission and
residents from the community to serve on the Steering Committee: Robert Pinon (Chair), Andrew
Wallace (Vice Chair), Dale Berreth, Steve Borst, Paul Brown, Tim Harpst, Willy Stokeman, and Bill Tobey.


2.2 DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION
Emigration Canyon’s General Plan 2022 is a guide for the Municipality’s development decisions; holds a
long-term perspective; communicates the wants and needs of the community to elected officials and to
prospective residents; includes a transportation element and a land use element, per Utah State Code
10-9a-401; and is a “living” document that can be updated and altered as deemed necessary.


2.3 KEY CONTENT WITHIN THE PLAN
2.3.1   Vision Statement
    •   Emigration Canyon is a progressive, family-oriented community with many opportunities for its
        residents to enjoy active, healthy, and modern lifestyles.
    •   Emigration Canyon is comprised of distinct neighborhoods with residents who are dedicated to
        fostering a sense of community and are actively involved in public activities.




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             matstarley@msd.utah.gov
                      Request: Recommendation of Approval

                      Planning and Development Services
                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                      matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov

    •   Emigration Canyon is a nationally recognized historic landmark, and its residents embrace that
        heritage.
    •   Emigration Canyon residents enjoy and value the Canyon’s many excellent, cherished, well-
        maintained recreational amenities.
    •   Emigration Canyon residents are committed to maintaining and protecting the Canyon’s
        important ecosystems and resources.

2.3.2 Land Use
Emigration Canyon’s current zoning designations largely reflect land use desires expressed in General
Plan Steering Committee meetings and public surveys. The Future Land Use and Character Area Map
generated for this Plan (see page 39 of the General Plan) conveys the land use patterns envisioned for
Emigration Canyon’s future. Expressed desires include preservation of the existing character of the built
environment, the cultural heritage of the area, and the ecological features of the area including
viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open space. Support for preserving and enhancing existing
commercial areas, and carefully considering how to enhance commercial activities that could encourage
community connectedness, sense of place, and sustainability, is also expressed in the Plan. It is
recommended that careful management of new developments and visitation to Emigration Canyon is
needed to protect the natural environment and limit noise and nuisance factors. See pages 133-137 of
the General Plan for the Land Use Work Program.

2.3.2.1 The community’s goals for Land Use are as follows
    • Goal 2.1: Preserve the culture, identity, and character of Emigration Canyon’s built environment.
    • Goal 2.2: Enhance community connectedness and sense of place.
    • Goal 2.3: Preserve and enhance ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open
       space.
    • Goal 2.4: Preserve and enhance existing commercial activities.

2.3.3 Character Areas
The Land Use element of Emigration Canyon’s General Plan includes several character areas: these are
specific geographic areas that have unique or special characteristics that should be preserved; have
potential to evolve into a unique area when provided specific guidance; or require attention suitable to
their uniqueness. Four distinct character areas have been identified in this Plan with input from the
General Plan Steering Committee and the Planning Commission. Specific assets, opportunities, and
challenges are associated with each character area, and the Plan establishes vision statements and
future zoning considerations for each. See page 49 of the General Plan for the Future Land Use and
Character Area Map.




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             matstarley@msd.utah.gov
                      Request: Recommendation of Approval

                      Planning and Development Services
                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                      matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov

2.3.4 Transportation
The transportation vision included in Emigration Canyon’s General Plan aligns closely with the expressed
land use desires. Participants in public meetings and surveys expressed a desire to plan for and better
manage projected increased use of both roads and trails by visitors in the years to come, and to improve
road safety for all types of users (especially bicycles). Mitigating the effects of high volumes of visitor
usage on Emigration Canyon’s roads, residents, and natural environment through the management of
light, noise, and air pollution, and by increasing trailhead parking and other related infrastructure
improvements, are considered a high priority. See pages 138-140 of the General Plan for the
Transportation Work Program.

2.3.4.1 The community’s goals for Transportation are as follows:
    • Goal 3.1: Enhance the existing character, integrity, and environmental management of the
       Canyon roads.
    • Goal 3.2: Provide a safe, efficient transportation network for all users.

2.3.5 Economic Development Considerations
Although not required by State Code, economic development is a critical component of Emigration
Canyon’s General Plan. This element does not intrinsically support economic development, but instead
examines options that could support responsible, equitable, and sustainable economic activities in the
area, especially as part of a wider regional context. It also clarifies the kinds of economic development
that would not be appropriate for Emigration Canyon. Market data, community input, and related
planning initiatives helped to inform the content of this element. The vision for economic development
in Emigration Canyon follows the vision for land use, in that enhancing economic activity within
Emigration Canyon should only be undertaken in keeping with the existing character and values of the
area. Any expansion or enhancement of economic activity should therefore support community
connectedness and sustainability goals, preserve the culture and identity of the Canyon, and enhance
the quality of life of residents and visitors. Improvements to digital infrastructure and consideration of
economic activities that do not require brick and mortar developments are highlighted as priorities for
future work. See page 141 of the General Plan for the Economic Development Considerations Work
Program.

2.3.5.1 The community’s goals for Economic Development are as follows:
    • Goal 4.1: Foster responsible, equitable, and sustainable economic development in keeping with
       the character and values of Emigration Canyon.

2.3.6 Environment
The environment element is not required by the State Code, but it is an essential element for Emigration
Canyon to include in its General Plan due to the close relationship that exists between the residents of
the area, their built environments, and the natural environment that surrounds and sustains them. The




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             matstarley@msd.utah.gov
                      Request: Recommendation of Approval

                      Planning and Development Services
                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                      matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov

vision for the environment outlined in this element aligns closely with the land use desires expressed by
Emigration Canyon residents, particularly in terms of the desire to preserve ecological features and
enhance community connections and sense of place. Participants in public meetings and surveys
expressed a desire to consider current and future environmental impacts and prevent significant
adverse effects on the valuable natural resources of Emigration Canyon when making land use decisions.
See pages 142-146 of the General Plan for the Environment Work Program.

2.3.6.1 The community’s goals for the Environment are as follows:
    • Goal 5.1: Protect and enhance clean, clear air quality.
    • Goal 5.2: Preserve and enhance the health of the watershed to ensure that it has adequate
       quality and capacity to fulfill the needs of all those who depend upon it for life and well-being,
       both human and non-human.
    • Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional and
       diverse.
    • Goal 5.4: Foster healthy, balanced relationships between humans and nature.

2.3.7 Resilience and Infrastructure
The resilience and infrastructure element is not required by the State Code, but it is an essential
element for Emigration Canyon to include in its General Plan as It encourages the community to plan for
the management of hazards and risks associated with a range of infrastructure types (i.e. physical,
digital, and social). The element draws from relevant literature and strategy documents, as well as
community input to develop a vision that aligns with the land use vision and supports improving
infrastructure and resilience in Emigration Canyon. The element highlights the importance of preparing
for, mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change, natural disaster risk, and other hazards by
maintaining and improving existing infrastructure; enhancing digital infrastructure and associated
connectivity; and by supporting and enhancing social cohesion. See pages 147-152 of the General Plan
for the Resilience and Infrastructure Work Program.

2.3.7.1 The community’s goals for Resilience and Infrastructure are as follows:
    • Goal 6.1: Practice fiscal responsibility and sustainability in all decision-making.
    • Goal 6.2: Maintain the infrastructure system in good working condition and ensure that it meets
       the needs of current and future residents and visitors.
    • Goal 6.3: Mitigate the effects of climate change, natural disaster risk, and other hazards.
    • Goal 6.4: Adapt to climate change, natural disaster risk, and other hazards.
    • Goal 6.5: Ensure that all community members enjoy a sense of belonging and high levels of social
       connectedness and trust.




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             matstarley@msd.utah.gov
                      Request: Recommendation of Approval

                      Planning and Development Services
                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                      matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov

2.3.8 Key Recommendations from the Work Programs
Seven key recommendations arose from this planning process. These recommendations address major
challenges identified for Emigration Canyon, and propose opportunities for mitigating, adapting to, or
otherwise improving upon, those challenges. Key challenges associated with progressing the Emigration
Canyon community vision and upholding the community values include; managing the use of the
Canyon’s roads and trails by visitors, managing development pressures, managing pressures that effect
water quality and quantity, and managing wildfire risk and other hazards.

    •   Recommendation 1: Preserve and enhance the ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors,
        and open space of Emigration Canyon for future generations.
    •   Recommendation 2: In land management decision making, protect watershed quality and ensure
        sustainable use of all water resources.
    •   Recommendation 3: Improve the safety, sustainability, and resilience of the built environment,
        including trails and other outdoor recreation infrastructure.
    •   Recommendation 4: Provide a safe, efficient transportation network for all users.
    •   Recommendation 5: Enhance community connectedness, engagement, and sense of place.
    •   Recommendation 6: Prepare for, mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change, natural
        disaster risk, and other hazards.
    •   Recommendation 7: Foster responsible, equitable, and sustainable economic development in
        keeping with the character and values of Emigration Canyon.

The Work Programs associated with each chapter of the Plan expand upon these recommendations.


3 SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
All properties and lands within Emigration Canyon Metro Township’s boundaries are considered in and
affected by this Plan.


4 PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
The MSD Planning Staff and the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission recommend approval and
adoption of the Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022, with the revisions outlined on Emigration
Canyon_General Plan Update ConceptBoard.com site; (Link:
https://app.conceptboard.com/board/54a9-uy77-bq8a-ym0c-fhox ).

Staff has determined that the following findings are in support of the application.

    1. The document follows Utah State Code Requirements for General Plans.




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                             matstarley@msd.utah.gov
                  Request: Recommendation of Approval

                  Planning and Development Services
                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                  matthewstarley@msd.utah.gov

2. The document is data-driven, utilizing reputable sources such as the United States Census
   Bureau, ESRI Business Analyst, and others.
3. The document is community-driven, reflecting communicated desires of residents. It follows
   extensive public engagement from July 2019 through November 2020. See page 18 of the
   General Plan for details on the General Planning Process timeline.
4. The document is a living document and should be revisited and updated as circumstances
   necessitate.




     MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

                                         matstarley@msd.utah.gov
