                                                    Greater Salt Lake Municipal Development Services
                                                    Planning and Development Services
                                                    2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                    Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                    msd.utah.gov




Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Night Sky Ordinance Discussion Memo

To: Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
From: Matthew Starley, MSD Long Range Planner / Jim Nakamura, MSD Planner II
Date: May 6th, 2022
Re: Night Sky Ordinance Discussion Outline

Issue: The Metro Township desires to encourage outdoor lighting practices that will minimize light
pollution, glare, light trespass, and sky glow to curtail the degradation of the night-time environment.
The Metro Township has also expressed interest in promoting lighting practices which encourage energy
conservation. Revisions to Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting ordinance are necessary to improve
the night-time visual environment.

Background: Emigration Canyon Metro Township is interested in updating it’s Night Lighting
Ordinance and Code.! This is a worthy project, as the benefits of improving the quality of the night-time
environment for community members and the natural environment are well documented and
numerous.

This effort is well supported by our recently adopted general plan. Supporting the adoption of a dark sky
ordinance is mentioned twice in the General Plan Work Program.

General Plan Link: https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/

    •   Goal 2.3: Preserve and enhance ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open
        space.
            o Objective 2.3.2: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for
                 nocturnal wildlife.
                     Support the adoption of a Dark Sky compliant light-pollution control ordinance.
    •   Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional and
        diverse.
            o Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for
                 nocturnal wildlife.
                     Support the adoption of a Dark Sky compliant light-pollution control ordinance.

MSD planning staff have received comments from members of the planning commission on the issue of
a Dark Sky Ordinance, as well as feedback on some example ordinances that were circulated to the
planning commission. MSD Planning Staff would like to present to the planning commission what have
heard and learned so far, and work with them to chart a path forward toward creation, adoption, and
application of and updated Night Sky Ordinance.

Following is a brief outline of what we hope to cover:
    o   Dark Sky Overview
           o What is a dark sky ordinance?
           o Why apply a dark sky ordinance?
           o How is a dark sky ordinance effectively enforced?
    o   General plan guidance
    o   Breakdown of Planning Commission Comments
           o Statements in support of the ordinance.
           o Things that the Ordinance Should Include.
                        Elements and Content
                        Ordinance Layout and Design
                        Example that should/could be followed
                        Specific lighting issues
           o Things that the ordinance should not include
           o Questions that should be addressed
    o   Next Steps


Proposal: It is in the best interest of the Metro Township to update current code regarding Night
Lighting and establish lighting standards, requirements, and processes that are substantially consistent
throughout Metro Township Municipal Code.




         MSD Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
                                                  msd.utah.gov
