DATE            TUESDAY                              APRIL                                26, 2022

           THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON
TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2022, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      ROBERT PINON
                                      CATHERINE HARRIS
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                 POLLY MCLEAN, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      CAMERON PLATT, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

              The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under a “Low Level of
Transmission” alert stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        STAFF MEETING

               The Council reviewed the following items:

      Watershed preliminary report update
      Watershed grant application
      Community Renewable Energy Program
      Dark Sky ordinance
      Parking enforcement
      FEMA flood plain map
      Hiring of an administrator
      Broadband




                                                 1
DATE            TUESDAY                               APRIL                                 26, 2022

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Citizen Input

                None.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from other Municipal Providers

Emigration Canyon Community Council

                  Bill Tobey stated the Fire Day Open House will be held on May 7, 2022, from 9:00
am to 12:00 pm at the UFA fire station on Emigration Canyon Road. There will be a pancake
breakfast and fire pan demonstration. Other fire risk reduction activities are in process but due to
UFA’s budget and staffing issues, the scope of work may change. The newsletter went out on
April 10, 2022. Due to resignations on the communication team, they are recruiting people to help
with the newsletter. Canyon clean-up will take place on May 21, 2022, at 8:30 am, and will meet
at the fire station. The first hybrid in-person/virtual meeting was held last month. They participated
in the annual business meeting of Utah Neighborhoods.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD)

              Detective Jake Elsasser reviewed Emigration Canyon calls for service stating
there were 37 calls for service with 12 initial reports.

               Council Member Pinon asked if a trailer could be placed at the mouth of the
canyon, notifying people coming into the canyon about the noise restrictions.

              Detective Elsasser stated he is trying to get a grant to fund an additional trailer
so the canyon has two. Messages on the new trailers can be changed remotely.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

                Council Member Harris introduced Chief Bryan Case as Emigration Canyon’s
liaison. Chief Case is over the Special Operations Division and Search and Rescue.

                Chief Bryan Case reviewed the quarterly report and calls for services.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Council Business



                                                  2
DATE           TUESDAY                              APRIL                                26, 2022


Resolution No. 2022-04-01- Hazardous Environmental Conditions and Restrictions of Fireworks

              The Council reviewed the following Resolution, restricting fireworks within all
portions of Emigration Canyon Metro Township:

RESOLUTION NO. 2022-04-01                                                     Date: April 26, 2022

       RESOLUTION FINDING HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND
       RESTRICTION OF FIREWORKS WITHIN ALL PORTIONS OF EMIGRATION
       CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

       WHEREAS, Utah Code §53-7-225, prohibits the discharge of Class C common state
approved explosives (fireworks) except around certain holidays including beginning on July 2 and
ending on July 5, and beginning on July 22 and ending on July 25;

         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 15A-5-202.5(1)(b) allows municipalities to “close a defined area
to the discharge of fireworks due to a historical hazardous environmental condition” if the
“historical hazardous environmental condition has existed in the defined area before July 1 of at
least two of the preceding five years;”

       WHEREAS, the fire official for Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”)
has found that existing hazardous environmental conditions have existed within Emigration
Canyon before July 1 of at least two of the preceding five years. (see Letter From Fire Marshal
dated April 5, 2022, attached as Exhibit A);

       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council (“Council”) finds that the
Township, throughout all areas, contains innumerable mountainous, brush-covered, forest
covered, and dry grass-covered areas which historically and, for at least two of the preceding five
years before July 1st, are in an extremely flammable condition;

        WHEREAS, if existing or historical hazardous environmental conditions exist within the
boundaries of the Township, Utah Code §15A-5-202.5 allows the Council to prohibit the ignition
and use of fireworks while these conditions exist in the following areas: (1) mountainous, brush-
covered, forest covered, or dry grass-covered areas; (2) within 200 feet of waterways, trails,
canyons, washes, ravines, or similar areas; (3) wildland urban interface area, which means the
line, area, or zone where structures or other human development meet or intermingle with
undeveloped wildland or land being used for an agricultural purpose; or (4) a limited area outside
the hazardous areas;

        WHEREAS, the Council finds that the entire Emigration Canyon Metro Township consists
of the above listed hazardous areas and a map of the Township is attached hereto as Exhibit B;

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:




                                                3
DATE           TUESDAY                              APRIL                                26, 2022

        SECTION I: Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. 15A-5-202.5, and based on the
findings as noted above, the use of Class C fireworks are hereby restricted in all areas of
Emigration Canyon Metro Township as shown in the attached map in Exhibit B.

      Section II: Effective Date. This resolution shall be effective upon receipt of the attached
map (Exhibit B) by Salt Lake County and publication of the Resolution by the Township Clerk.

       PASSED AND APPROVED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council, Utah, this
26th day of April in the year 2022.

                                                    EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

                                                    /s/ JOE SMOLKA
                                                    Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Township Clerk

              Council Member Brems, seconded by Council Member Harris, moved to approve
Resolution No. 2022-04-01. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
2022 Conflict of Interest Disclosures

               Polly McLean reviewed the Conflict of Interest Disclosures Policy.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the language in the policy needs to be corrected to
reference the metro township.

                Council Member Harris, seconded by Council Member Hawkes, moved to approve
the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Policy with amendments to the language. The motion passed
unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Improvement District Grant Application

               Council Member Harris stated a letter has been drafted to support Emigration
Canyon Improvement District’s (EID) grant application with the Bureau of Reclamation. The grant
will fund improved water meters and pressure regulating valves throughout the water distribution
system in Emigration Canyon. She would like the Council’s direction on whether to send the letter.

              Mayor Smolka, seconded by Council Member Hawkes, moved to approve the letter
to support the EID grant application with amendments as discussed. The motion passed
unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                                4
DATE            TUESDAY                              APRIL                                26, 2022

Legal Issues

               Polly McLean stated she continues to work on the civil enforcement process.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

               Mayor Smolka reviewed the bills for the Clerk, legal counsel, and Zoom. Council
Member Harris was reimbursed for Captain Michael Conn’s dinner. Unified Fire Authority will be
increasing Emigration Canyon’s fee for the emergency coordinator. There should be enough in
the administrative budget to cover the fee increase; however, the budget will need to be increased
next year.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

                 Council Member Brems stated UPD needs a new mobile command center and
may ask member entities for a portion of their ARPA funds to make the purchase. Work on officer,
staff, and civilian compensation is ongoing. Legislation was passed for the inland port, and it will
take funds away from SLVLESA. They closed on a $12.5 million tax anticipation note with Zion’s
Bank. The UPD one-on-one will be held on Thursday, April 28, 2022, at 9:00 am. The Council will
have the opportunity to discuss its concerns and what unique problems it has.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission

               Council Member Brems stated there is nothing to report.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

                  Council Member Harris stated the Benefits and Compensation Committee
recommended a 7 percent cost of living (COLA) increase for employees. Dominic Burchett was
selected as the new Chief of UFA. She attended the 100-year anniversary celebration. She is
working with Deputy Mayor Hawkes to create an Emigration Canyon Metro Township patch that
fire fighters will wear on their uniforms. The Western Fire Chief Association will hold a summit on
May 3 and 4, 2022.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)




                                                 5
DATE           TUESDAY                              APRIL                                26, 2022

                Council Member Pinon stated WFWRD will evaluate employee experience, years
of service, and education to determine compensation. Residents will receive a postcard to sign
up for the free dumpster program.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she received free dump vouchers for those that
need them.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Association of Municipal Governments

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated there was a presentation on commercial real
estate.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated in recent months, she has been approached about
linking the Council website with businesses or a cause. The Council needs to discuss a policy
that addresses what can be put on the website.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she sent out a CodeRED message regarding the
marathon.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms

                Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated a tarp has been placed over the roof to keep the
moisture out and will eventually need to be replaced. Soil tests were completed, and the vaults
were inspected. The entryway will be reconstructed to there will not be a need for a handrail. A
grant application was submitted last month and awarded by the first week of May.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Smolka stated the MSD is in the process of looking for a Chief of Finance
Officer. A booth will be set up at Fire Days to provide information about the MSD and its relation
to Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The fee is going up for the metro townships use of the
Emergency Municipal Planner, Jim Woodward. Mr. Woodward keeps all the emergency plans up
to date.




                                                6
DATE               TUESDAY                          APRIL                                26, 2022

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Mayor Smolka stated the projected revenue is up approximately $900,000 this
year. With the increased revenue, they may be able to purchase additional equipment to replace
the old equipment.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Regional Council

                 Mayor Smolka stated he had a discussion about applying for additional grants
that will help fund the widening of the road to accommodate better bike lanes. There have been
applications for grants submitted and one was award for $2 million. The grant funds 60 percent
with the metro township funding 40 percent. The bond may be able to be leveraged but the
location of the grant funds would need to be moved. If the 40 percent match is maxed out, it would
provide approximately $5 million total. If that amount can be approved, the road could be widened
from the fire station to Red Hill. He will update the Council as he gets more information.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Council of Governments (COG)

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legislative Update

              Mayor Smolka stated there may be legislation that will affect the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District (MSD).

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Closed Session

               Council Member Harris, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to close the
meeting to discuss imminent or pending litigation. The motion passed unanimously.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
               The Council voted to re-open the meeting during the closed meeting.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.


                                                7
DATE        TUESDAY                      APRIL                       26, 2022




_____________________________________________________
MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL




                                  SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                   By: ______________________________________
                                       Deputy Clerk


                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                     8
