                                                 Planning and Development Services
                                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                 https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/



                   Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                               Public Meeting Agenda

                          Thursday, June 16, 2022 8:30 A.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Andy Wallace has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the
ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments
where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                               BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the May 12, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Dark Skies Ordinance Working Update. Planner(s): Jim Nakamura/Matt Starley
    3) Other Business Items. (As needed)




June 16, 2022                                           Page 1 of 2                     AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
                                  PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2022-000601 – An Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill
Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection.”
The proposed amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor Setback for Buildings,
accessory structures, and parking lots from 100’ to 50’ measured from the ordinary high-water
mark. The proposed amendment will eliminate setback requirements for on-site wastewater
disposal systems, which are regulated by Salt Lake County Health Department. Planner: Jim
Nakamura (Motion/Voting)


                                        ADJOURN




June 16, 2022                             Page 2 of 2            AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



June 16, 2022                                           AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
    Dark Sky Ordinance
             Emigration Canyon Metro Township




Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Planning and Development Services
Dark Sky Ordinance: Table of Contents
We have cobbled together a first draft of the ordinance. We would like to come to you to present progress made
and get feedback on general construction of the ordinance, potential graphic creation, and a short list of ordinance
specifics.


Purpose:                                                  Prohibited Lighting:
Definitions:                                              Hillsides, Ridgelines and Special Cases:
Scope and Applicability:                                  Towers:
Outdoor Lighting - Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements:   Exemptions:
Conditions and Standards Generally:                       Application and Review Procedures:
Specialized Outdoor Lighting:                             Violations:
Purpose:

The purposes of this chapter are to:
•   Encourage outdoor lighting practices that will minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and sky glow to
    curtail the degradation of the night sky visual environment.
•   Encourage lighting practices that promote energy conservation.
•   Maintain nighttime safety, utility, and security, prevent unnecessary or inappropriate outdoor lighting, and
    lighting nuisances on properties.
•   Maintain the rural atmosphere and village character of the Metro Township. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
Definitions:

For the purpose of this chapter, certain words, phrases
and terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned
to them by this section:
Definitions:
Scope and Applicability

Compliance: All exterior outdoor lighting installed after lighting. However, light trespass from interior lighting that
the effective date hereof in all zones in the Metro       negatively impacts adjacent properties is also prohibited .
Township shall conform to the requirements established That is basically the intent, but we will maybe want to get a little more
by this chapter. This chapter does not apply to indoor    articulate about indoor lighting on slope, which might require us to
                                                                change this wording…
Outdoor Lighting - Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements
•   Spotlights controlled by motion sensors having a light                • The lights controlled by motion sensors
    output less than one thousand (1000) lumens per                          shall not be triggered by movement or
    lamp (allowing a maximum of a 60 watt incandescent,                      activity located off the property on
    43 watt halogen, 13 watt compact fluorescent bulb, or                    which the light is located.
    a 10 watt LED ) are exempt from the full cutoff              o The fixture must be hooded or shielded to the
    requirement, provided:                                         extent necessary to prevent glare on adjacent
      o The fixture is a spotlight or other type of directed       properties or roadways.
        light that shall be directed at a forty-five degree •    Pathway lights less than eighteen inches (18") in
        (45°) angle or less, where the zero angle is            height are exempted from the full cutoff fixture
        pointing straight down, and                             requirement, if the total light output from each
            The fixture must not be placed in such a           pathway light is less than three hundred (300) lumens
             manner that results in illumination being          and the lights have opaque caps that direct light
             directed outside the property boundaries           downward.
             where the light fixtures are located, and
Conditions and Standards Generally
•   Commercial Properties - The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed
    twenty-five thousand (25 000) lumens per net acre.
•   Residential Properties - Five thousand (5000) lumens per net acre. Partially and unshielded lighting on a property
    shall not exceed One thousand (1,000) lumens per lot and shall be included in the total outdoor light output
    calculations. Residential units used for overnight accommodations or other commercial uses shall comply with
    the residential standards for total light output.
•   Multi-Family Residential Properties - Total outdoor light output of any apartment development shall not exceed
    twenty thousand (20,000) lumens of lighting per net acre.
Specialized Outdoor Lighting:

Roadway/Streetlights: Roadway and streetlights are         glow, light trespass, and other unintended impacts of
prohibited unless recommended by the City engineer or artificial lighting. All streetlights shall utilize the lowest
required by UDOT to provide for the safety of the public. illuminance levels acceptable to the City Engineer and/or
When deemed necessary, streetlights shall utilize lamp UDOT.
types that are fully shielded luminaires that minimize sky
Prohibited Lighting:

The following are prohibited:
•   Uplighting to illuminate buildings and other structures, or vegetation, except as allowed by other provisions in
    this chapter.
•   Flashing, blinking, intermittent or other lights that move or give the impression of movement, not including
    holiday lighting between November 15 and January 15.
•   Floodlights or spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of lighting parking lots or sales display lot areas.
•   Searchlights, laser source lights or any similar high intensity light.
•   Except when used in window signage pursuant to subsection 9-4-7F4 of this chapter, neon or luminous tube
    lighting, either when outdoor mounted or indoor mounted if visible beyond the property boundaries. (Ord., 3-
    10-2016)
Hillsides, Ridgelines and Special Cases

In certain cases (such as, but not limited to, properties on or near ridgelines or hillsides), additional
shielding may be required to mitigate glare or light trespass. The need for additional shielding will be
considered as part of the review process performed by the planning commission prior to approval of any
business or residence.


We will want to add some information to this…. What is critieria that could define a hilside? >15% slope? How close to a hillside? Maybe this is FCOZ
stuff?
Towers

All monopole, antenna, tower, or support facility lighting not required by the federal aviation administration (FAA)
or the federal communications commission (FCC) is prohibited.
When lighting is required by the FAA or the FCC, such lighting shall not exceed the minimum requirements of those
agencies. Collision markers should have a dual mode for day and night to minimize impact to the night sky and
migrating birds.
 C. All other lighting used on the property not regulated by the FAA or FCC shall conform to this chapter.
Exemptions:

The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
Holiday lighting from November 15 to January 15 as long as it does not create a hazard or nuisance to surrounding
businesses or residences.
Traffic control signals and devices.
Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement or government agencies, or at their direction.
Low voltage LED lights and solar lights used to illuminate pathways in residential areas, provided the lights are
installed no more than eighteen inches (18") above the adjacent ground level and have caps that direct the light
downward.
The planning commission, as part of its review as outlined in this chapter, may approve lighting that does not
conform to these standards if need is established. An applicant requesting such lighting is required to provide proof
of requirements of property insurance or findings of competent research demonstrating the need for the requested
lighting. The planning commission may attach other conditions to the approval of such lighting that will make the
lighting comply with the spirit of this chapter. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
                                                             lighting fixtures are also required. In the event
Application and Review Procedures                            photometric diagrams are not available, the applicant
                                                             must provide sufficient information regarding the light
Lighting Plans Required: All sign permit applications,       fixture, bulb wattage, and shielding mechanisms for the
building permit applications and design/development          planning commission to be able to determine compliance
review applications within any zoning district shall include with the provisions of this chapter.
a lighting plan that shows evidence that the proposed
                                                                 3. A table showing the total amount of proposed
lighting fixtures and light sources will comply with this
                                                             exterior lights, by fixture type, wattage, lumens and lamp
chapter.
                                                             type.
Lighting Plan shall include the following:
                                                             Approval Procedure:
    1. Plans or drawings indicating the proposed location
                                                                 1. The lighting plan for all new development shall be
of lighting fixtures, height of lighting fixtures on the
                                                             submitted for approval concurrent with the associated
premises, and type of illumination devices, lamps,
                                                             application process. (Ord., 3-10-2016)
supports, shielding and reflectors used and installation
and electrical details.                                          2. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until
                                                             such time as the property is subject to a post installation
    2. Illustrations, such as contained in a manufacturer's
                                                             nighttime inspection by the building inspector. (Ord., 3-
catalog cuts, of all proposed lighting fixtures. For
                                                             10-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
commercial uses, photometric diagrams of proposed
Violations

The following constitute violations of this chapter:
The installation, maintenance, or operation of any lighting fixture not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter if such fixture is installed subsequent to the date when this chapter is formally adopted.
The alteration of outdoor lighting fixtures after a certificate of occupancy has been issued without the review and
approval of the planning commission when such alteration does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed, operated, maintained or altered in violation of this
chapter.
                                     Planning & Development Services


                                          File # OAM2022-000601


                                    Ordinance Amendment
                                  Related to Stream Setbacks
                          in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
 Public Body            Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
 Meeting Dates          June 16th, 2022
 Proposal               An Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons
                        Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands
                        Protection.” The proposed amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor
                        Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots from 100’ to 50’
                        measured from the ordinary high-water mark.
 Planner                Jim Nakamura
 Recommendation         Approve the ordinance as proposed

                                       DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL
The Emigration Canyon Planning Commission has been engaged in the process of assessing and considering
amendments to the Foothill Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). The Planning Commission recognizes the need for
consistency with partner agency standards and the standards in the FCOZ. As such, the MSD Planning staff was
directed to craft an ordinance to amend the FCOZ for the health, safety, and well-being of its residents and visitors.
The purpose of the proposed code amendment to the FCOZ is to adjust the setback standard for development
from a perennial stream to be consistent with the Salt Lake County Health Department and Salt Lake City Public
Utilities water shed regulations. As such, the proposed amendment reduces the setbacks to a perennial stream
corridor from 100 feet to 50 feet. Mention of the 100’ Setback from a onsite wastewater system to a perennial
stream corridor will be removed from chapter 19.72.130 as this Setback is regulated by the State of Utah and
Health Department rules and regulations

                                       PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT
Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 17-27a-205. Public notice was mailed to affected
entities, notice was posted in three public locations, and notice was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at
least 10 days prior to the public hearing on June 16, 2022.
At the time of writing this report, no written comments have been received by the MSD Department of Planning
and Development Services.

                                 OPTION FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed ordinance amendment:

                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                  2001 S. State Street #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • (385) 468-6700
Proposal: Stream Set Back Ordinance Amendment                                  File #: OAM2022-000601




Option 1:       Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:       Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:       Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

                                         STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission recommend approval of the ordinance as
proposed.

EXHIBITS
1. Public Notice
2. Illustration of set back from perennial stream corridor




                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
exhibit 1
exhibit 2




            50 feet
