                                     Planning & Development Services


                                          File # OAM2022-000601


                                    Ordinance Amendment
                                  Related to Stream Setbacks
                          in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
 Public Body            Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
 Meeting Dates          June 16th, 2022
 Proposal               An Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons
                        Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands
                        Protection.” The proposed amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor
                        Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots from 100’ to 50’
                        measured from the ordinary high-water mark.
 Planner                Jim Nakamura
 Recommendation         Approve the ordinance as proposed

                                       DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL
The Emigration Canyon Planning Commission has been engaged in the process of assessing and considering
amendments to the Foothill Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). The Planning Commission recognizes the need for
consistency with partner agency standards and the standards in the FCOZ. As such, the MSD Planning staff was
directed to craft an ordinance to amend the FCOZ for the health, safety, and well-being of its residents and visitors.
The purpose of the proposed code amendment to the FCOZ is to adjust the setback standard for development
from a perennial stream to be consistent with the Salt Lake County Health Department and Salt Lake City Public
Utilities water shed regulations. As such, the proposed amendment reduces the setbacks to a perennial stream
corridor from 100 feet to 50 feet. Mention of the 100’ Setback from a onsite wastewater system to a perennial
stream corridor will be removed from chapter 19.72.130 as this Setback is regulated by the State of Utah and
Health Department rules and regulations

                                       PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT
Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 17-27a-205. Public notice was mailed to affected
entities, notice was posted in three public locations, and notice was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at
least 10 days prior to the public hearing on June 16, 2022.
At the time of writing this report, no written comments have been received by the MSD Department of Planning
and Development Services.

                                 OPTION FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed ordinance amendment:

                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                  2001 S. State Street #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • (385) 468-6700
Proposal: Stream Set Back Ordinance Amendment                                 File #: OAM2022-000601




Option 1:      Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:      Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:      Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

                                     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission recommend approval of the ordinance as
proposed.

ATTACHMENTS:
1. Public Notice
2. Proposed Ordinance 19.72.130




                                                                                               Page 2 of 2
Attachment 1
Attachment 2



                                         ORDINANCE NO. 2022-___

            ORDINANCE AMENDING EMIGRATION CANYON CODE, SECTION 19.72.130
                    STREAM CORRIDOR AND WETLANDS PROTECTION

       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) Township
       Council ("Council) is authorized to enact ordinances for the health, safety, and well-being of its
       residents and visitors; and

       WHEREAS, consistency with partner agency standards is an objective in Emigration Canyon;
       and

       WHEREAS, the State of Utah and the Salt Lake County Health Department have rules
       requirements governing setbacks for onsite wastewater disposal systems; and

       WHEREAS, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone standards for setbacks for onsite
       wastewater disposal systems are unnecessary due to those State of Utah and Health Department
       rules and regulations; and

       WHEREAS, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone standards for setbacks from perennial
       streams should be amended from 100 feet to 50 feet to be consistent with partner agencies;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
       as follows:

       SECTION 1. AMENDED. Section 19.72.130 is amended as redlined in Exhibit A.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.


                     PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ Day of _______, 2022.


                                                                    EMIGRATION CANYON
                                                                    METRO TOWNSHIP

                                                                    By: _______________________
                                                                        Joe Smolka, Mayor


       ATTEST:


       ______________________________
       Town Clerk
19.72.130 Stream Corridor And Wetlands Protection

A. Purpose

The following requirements and standards are intended to promote, preserve, and enhance the
important hydrologic, biological, ecological, aesthetic, recreational, and educational functions of
stream corridors, associated riparian areas, and wetlands.

B. Applicability

Unless previously delineated by Township, boundaries for stream corridors and wetland areas are
delineated according to the following standards:

1. Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by a qualified engineer or other
qualified professional with demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct the required site
analysis. Delineations are subject to the approval of the Director.

2. Stream corridors shall be delineated at the ordinary high-water mark. Stream corridors do not include
irrigation ditches that do not contribute to the preservation and enhancement of fisheries or wildlife.

3. Boundary delineation of wetlands are established using the current Federal Manual for Identifying
and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands jointly published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Soil Conservation Service.

C. Prohibited Activities

No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills, dredges, clears, destroys, or
alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation, except for restoration and maintenance
activities allowed in this Chapter as approved by Salt Lake County Flood Control, the Utah State
Engineer’s Office (Division of Water Rights), and other applicable authorities.

D. Setbacks

1. Perennial Stream Corridors

All buildings, accessory structures and, parking lots, and all on-site wastewater disposal systems shall
be set back at least one-hundred fifty (100 50) feet horizontally from the ordinary high-water mark of
perennial stream corridors. (See Figure 19.72.7: Setback from Stream Corridor)

FIGURE 19.72.7: SETBACK FROM STREAM CORRIDOR
2. Wetlands

All buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet, and all on-
site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one-hundred (100) feet horizontally from
the delineated edge of a wetland.

3. Ephemeral Streams

Leach fields shall be set back 100 feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. All buildings, accessory
structures, and parking areas or parking lots shall be set back at least 50 feet from the channel of an
ephemeral stream. The Director may recommend to the land use authority modifications to this
prohibition upon finding that the modification is likely to cause minimal adverse environmental impact
or that such impact may be substantially mitigated. For properties located within the Salt Lake City
watershed, the Director shall consult with Salt Lake City Public Utilities prior to making a
recommendation.

4. Natural Open Space/Landscape Credit for Setback Areas

All setback areas are credited toward any relevant private natural open space or landscape
requirements, but are not credited toward public trail access dedication requirements.

E. Preservation of Vegetation

All existing vegetation within the stream corridor or wetland setback area shall be preserved to provide
adequate screening or to repair damaged riparian areas, supplemented where necessary with
additional native or adapted planting and landscaping.
F. Bridges

Any bridge over a stream corridor and within the stream setback area may be approved, provided the
Director affirms that the bridge is planned and constructed in such a manner as to minimize impacts on
the stream corridor.

G. Modification of Setbacks

1. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively reduce the perennial
stream corridor and wetlands setbacks by a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) where applicable
upon satisfaction of the following criteria:

a. The modification is designed to yield:

i. More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock outcrops, or
other significant natural features of the site;

ii. Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or

iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,

b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.

H. Perennial Stream Corridor and Wetland Setback Requirements for Lots of Record

1. Existing Legally-Established Structures

A structure legally existing on the effective date of this Ordinance that is within fifty (50) feet of a
perennial stream corridor or wetland may be renovated, altered, or expanded or reconstructed if
damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or act of nature as follows:

a. Renovations or alterations or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that will not
increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure are permitted.

b. Renovations, alterations, or expansions that will increase the gross floor area of the original, existing
structure are limited to a cumulative total expansion of no more than 250 square feet of gross floor
area located closer than 50 feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland.

c. Renovations, alterations, expansions, or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that
increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure but which are no closer than fifty (50)
feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland are permitted, subject to compliance with all other
applicable regulations and standards.

2. New Structures

For new developments, the Director may authorize construction to no closer than fifty (50) feet from a
perennial stream corridor or to no closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a wetland subject to the
following criteria:

a. Denial of an encroachment of more than the twenty-five percent (25%) into the stream or wetlands
setback area allowed by 19.72.130(G) would render the site
undevelopable.

b. No alternative location for the development further away from the stream or wetland

is feasible or available.

c. Creative architectural or environmental solutions have been incorporated into the

development proposal in order to ensure that the purposes of stream corridor

protection, as set forth in Subsection 19.72.130 are achieved.

d. No federal or state laws, or other County ordinances or regulations are violated.

3. Limitation

In allowing for the preceding improvements, the Director may not:

a. Increase the maximum limits of disturbance set forth in Subsection 19.72.160.

b. Authorize the encroachment of more than five-hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area of
structural improvements (cumulative total) within the land area between seventy-five (75) feet and
fifty (50) feet from a perennial stream corridor or within the land area between fifty (50) and twenty-
five (25) feet of a wetland
