May 31, 2022

Dear Emigration Canyon Metro Township,
After careful review of the Utah League of Cities and Towns Constitution and bylaws, along with
our League Board’s contemplation, we are excited to officially offer full membership to the metro
townships of Utah. You’ll find two important documents attached here. We are excited to share
with you all we have accomplished for our membership in our 2021-2022 Advocacy, Engagement,
and Operations Report. Therein, you will find information about our legislative successes during
the session, the scope of our membership engagement throughout the year, and how to enhance
your involvement with the League. Our strength lies in our unity, and we are proud of the fact
that 99% of Utah’s municipalities are League members.
You’ll also find the invoice for your membership dues in the 2022-2023 year. To improve
communication to cities about membership dues, the Board intends in 2022 to change our
bylaws, which currently require that dues be adopted at the April Board meeting, to accelerate
the dues setting process to earlier in the fiscal year.
Please notify us if your metro township will join the League for 2022-2023 by contacting me at
cdiehl@ulct.org as soon as possible. Likewise, please send your dues payment by September 30,
2022.
While League staff has significantly increased our revenue from conference sponsors and
exhibitors, membership dues are the primary source to fund our operations and personnel.
The number of bills and year-round commissions and task forces that the Legislature generates is
increasing significantly, requiring League analysis, research, engagement, and advocacy. For
example, the staffing in the Utah House of Representatives has almost tripled since 2010, the
average number of bills we track during the session has doubled since 2010, and the League
engages with dozens of state task forces and commissions year-round.
The League expanded our internal legislative staff this year for the first time during that time
frame. In 2022, the League hired a Deputy Director and a second Legislative Research Analyst so
that we could cover more issues at the capitol and provide support to communities with the
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA). We also
strategically partnered with subject matter experts on economic development, taxation, and land
use to boost our advocacy and research efforts. The League faces the same challenges as
municipalities in recruiting and retaining our dedicated and capable staff.
The League has many major legislative policy challenges ahead related to population growth.
Please engage with us as we tackle challenges about housing, land use, economic development,
taxes, transportation, public safety, and water. We believe it would be difficult for cities acting
alone to equal the effectiveness of our collective lobbying efforts. Please contact Cameron for
more information about how to engage in the League at cdiehl@ulct.org.
This last spring, we hosted a record number of municipal leaders—more than 500—at our
Midyear Conference in St. George along with selling out our sponsor and exhibitor spaces. We
know that metro township leaders have attended League trainings and we are excited to have
you participate as League members. We look forward to seeing you at the Annual Convention at
the Salt Palace in Salt Lake City on October 5-7, and at Legislative Policy Committee meetings or
other events. In the meantime, you can contact us anytime to discuss League advocacy,
engagement, and operations. Cities work to ensure the quality of life of today and tomorrow’s
residents. The strength of the League is within our membership. Join us today!




Cameron Brady Diehl
Executive Director
Utah League of Cities and Towns




Mayor Dawn Ramsey, South Jordan                              Mayor Jeff Silvestrini, Millcreek
League President                                             League 1st Vice President




Mayor Michelle Kaufusi, Provo                                Mayor Mike Caldwell, Ogden
League 2nd Vice President                                    League Immediate Past President




Gary Hill, Bountiful City Manager
UCMA Representative
