DATE           THURSDAY                              APRIL                               28, 2022

            THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT
ON TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 2022, AT THE HOUR OF 9:00 A.M., AT THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
SHERIFF’S OFFICE, 3356 SOUTH 900 WEST, SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84119.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      ROBERT PINON
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

COUNCIL MEMBER EXCUSED:               CATHERINE HARRIS

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                 LISA DUDLEY, UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT
                                      JASON MAZURAN, UNIFIED POLICE DEPARTMENT
                                      FRANK NAKAMURA, SALT LAKE VALLEY LAW
                                      ENFORCEMENT SERVICE AREA
                                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Police Department (UPD) and Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
(SLVLESA) Funding and Services

              Lisa Dudley, Fiscal Manager, UPD, reviewed a handout regarding changes to the
various fund balances from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2022.

               Council Member Brems stated the fund balance and why it is important is
confusing to understand.

              Ms. Dudley stated the rules for state and local government accounting require that
revenues are equal to expenditures. The anticipated revenue and expenditures need to be the
same amount to be a balanced budget. If the estimated revenues are lower than the estimated
expenditures, then the difference needs to be made up through the fund balance. The fund
balance is essentially a savings account or “piggy bank”. The fund balance comes from previous
revenues.

She was asked to create a city-like budget, a way for member entities to understand where the
money is going for each precinct. In fiscal year 2020, funds were created for each precinct; shared
services, Millcreek, Holladay, Midvale, SLVLESA (Emigration Canyon, Copperton, White City,
Kearns, and Magna Metro Townships, Town of Brighton, and unincorporated Salt Lake County)
and countywide – Salt Lake County. UPD will tell SLVLESA how much it needs to fund each
precinct and then SLVLESA cuts a check to UPD.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked if SLVLESA is where the metro townships sit.

               Ms. Dudley stated yes, including the Town of Brighton and unincorporated Salt
Lake County.




                                                1
DATE           THURSDAY                              APRIL                               28, 2022

              Council Member Brems stated the cost of an officer for Emigration Canyon is
approximately $125,000 a year, UPD shared services is approximately $125,000 a year.
Emigration Canyon pays roughly $250,000 a year for Detective Jake Elsasser and other services.

               Ms. Dudley stated she would like to take a minute and have everyone introduce
themselves.

               Frank Nakamura, Administrator, SLVLESA, introduced himself.

              Chief Jason Mazuran, UPD, introduced himself and explained the organizational
structure of UPD. The UPD Board consists of elected officials that represent participating
communities. The executive management is Sheriff Rosie Rivera, CEO, Undersheriff Jake
Peterson, Chief of Staff, and Jason Mazuran, COO. They take direction from the UPD Board and
work with command staff to make sure operations get carried out in a cost effective and efficient
manner.

               Council Member Brems stated he is hoping to address several concerns in
Emigration Canyon. When he first joined the UPD Board, there was not a lot of transparency on
how much Emigration Canyon contributes compared to services it receives. Since he has been
asking questions, he has been able to see what those costs are; however, when asked about
where the rest of the funds goes, he has not been given an acceptable answer.

During COVID, people started going outside to recreate more in Emigration Canyon. The road
that runs through the canyon has become a real problem with speeding vehicles and noise
pollution. Detective Elsasser is in the canyon for 40 hours a week or less during normal business
hours. There are six months out of the year that the canyon does not need Detective Elsasser
more than that. When the weather warms up the canyon sees a lot of cyclists, motorcycles, car
clubs, etc. that use the canyon on weekdays after 5:00 p.m. and on weekends. During these times
there are a lot of problems occurring and there is not an officer to enforce them. This has been
brought to UPD’s attention several times and it needs to be discussed again. There should be an
option for Emigration Canyon to negotiate service levels and costs. Can Mr. Nakamura negotiate
a better deal for Emigration Canyon, something different than what it is currently receiving.

             Mr. Nakamura stated SLVLESA operates as a whole, not as individual
memberships. Salt Lake County and Kennecott contribute 41 percent of the total revenue to
SLVLESA and that money goes into a pool for everyone to use. SLVLESA is one unit that is based
on economy of scales. The difficulty is breaking down the benefit of shared services.

              Council Member Brems stated if Emigration Canyon wanted to negotiate a deal
with Salt Lake City Police, could SLVLSEA help with those negotiations. He does not feel that
Emigration Canyon is getting what it needs for the amount it pays. Better service is needed in the
canyon.

               Ms. Dudley stated Emigration Canyon would need to deannex from SLVLESA.

             Chief Mazuran stated Council Member Brems could approach the SLVLESA
Board and express its need for an additional officer in the canyon.

              Mr. Nakamura stated Council Member Brems is free to bring his concerns up to
the Board. The Board would then need to provide direction on what it wants to do.


                                                2
DATE              THURSDAY                            APRIL                               28, 2022


               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated when she served on the Board, it would discuss
the needs of its members, and then there would be negotiations. How does it work if Emigration
Canyon needs more services?

               Mr. Nakamura stated the focus should be on the need for more services rather
than focusing on how much revenue is being generated.

                Ms. Dudley stated Chief Wayne Dial needs to be involved in the conversation. He
would make a request to the SLVLSEA Board at which time it would decide whether to fund
another officer.

               Council Member Brems stated there is a problem that is not being solved and he
believes there is enough money to solve the problem.

               Mr. Nakamura stated the SLVLESA Board has the authority to amend the budget
to fund an additional officer. The request for an additional officer can be made to the Board and it
would need to agree to pay for the additional officer.

                  Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked to be provided with the cost of an additional officer
for six months.

                Ms. Dudley stated Chief Dial needs to be involved in the conversation so he can
help with that cost estimate and present the information to the SLVLESA Board.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated there is data to backup the concerns that are being
expressed. Data shows that 35,000 cyclists visit the canyon in a six-month period. That number
does not include the residents that live in the canyon or other types of visitors.

              Ms. Dudley stated she is not involved in the operations, that would be something
that Chief Mazuran and Chief Dial would need to be involved with. If the SLVLESA Board
approves the expenditure, UPD can respond right away.

              Mayor Smolka stated there might be a simpler solution. Detective Elsasser works
four days, each with ten-hour shifts. Some of those hours could be shifted to cover weeknights
and weekends. There is not much going on between 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Whether it is Detective
Elsasser or another office, the hours that someone is in the canyon can be shifted.

             Council Member Brems stated it would be great if the hours could be shifted;
however, he believes the canyon needs another officer also.

                Chief Mazuran asked what 6-month period would Emigration Canyon need an
additional officer, May – September?

                  Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated as soon as the snow melts and the weather gets
warmer.

             Council Member Brems stated an additional officer would need to be in the
canyon when the weather becomes warmer, after 5:00 p.m., and on weekends. The noise
ordinance cannot be enforced. Detective Elsasser pulls over motorcycles for modified mufflers.


                                                 3
DATE            THURSDAY                               APRIL                                28, 2022

Vehicles making the most noise are generally speeding, there are multiple infractions when there
is excessive noise coming from a vehicle. There are 1,600 homes in Emigration Canyon, these
nuisances are coming through the neighborhoods.

             Mayor Smolka stated a solution needs to be determined, whether that is additional
manpower, a shift in hours, or coming up with something entirely different.

               Chief Mazuran stated he has some thoughts that he will speak to Chief Dial about.

               Mayor Smolka asked if the fund balance has a cap of 25 percent.

               Ms. Dudley stated the legislature raised it to 35 percent for the general fund. She
reviewed the following budget items:

    Fiscal year 2020 and 2021 fund balance by component for shared services, precincts, and
     countywide.
    History of UPD change in fund balance for fiscal years 2010-2021 (audited) through 2022
     (projected).

                Council Member Brems stated going forward with the current tax structure and
the amount of revenue, funding is going to run out. A lobbyist was at the state legislature this year
discussing funding options, it did not approve a change in formula or a tax increase. In the next
three to five years, it could get really serious, and the legislature is the only one that can control
the funding.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked if the member cities are going to stay with UPD.

               Chief Mazuran stated there are no indicators right now that member cities are
leaving.

               Ms. Dudley reviewed the following budget items:

    Fiscal year 2023 draft member assessment with four different options if the member
     assessment percentage was increased.
    Various UPD accounts 2021-2022 current year budget, 2022-2023 future year budget and
     an explanation of each account.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.


_____________________________________________________
MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL




                                                  4
DATE   THURSDAY            APRIL                       28, 2022

                    SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                     By: ______________________________________
                         Deputy Clerk


              ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

              ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

              ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                       5
