                                                 Planning and Development Services
                                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                 https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                   Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                               Public Meeting Agenda

                           Thursday, July 14, 2022 8:30 A.M.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Andy Wallace has determined in his capacity as Chair of the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without an anchor location given the
ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments
where indicated in the agenda, please use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                               BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the June 16, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As needed)




July 14, 2022                                           Page 1 of 2                     AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
                                   PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2022-000601 (Continued from June 16, 2022) - An Ordinance amending the Emigration
Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream
Corridor and Wetlands Protection.” The proposed amendment will amend the Perennial Stream
Corridor Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots from 100’ to 50’ measured
from the ordinary high-water mark. The proposed amendment will eliminate setback requirements
for on-site wastewater disposal systems, which are regulated by Salt Lake County Health
Department. Planner: Jim Nakamura (Motion/Voting)


                                         ADJOURN




July 14, 2022                              Page 2 of 2             AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



July 14, 2022                                          AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                     Planning and Development Services
                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                             MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               EMIGRATION CANYON PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                        Thursday, June 16, 2022 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 10 minutes                            *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                        found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                         Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wallace

                                                      ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                    Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
        Commissioners                                     Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                     Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
     Andrew Wallace (Chair)           x           x
                                                                                   Wendy Gurr                     x            x
        Alex Pacanowsky                                     x
                                                                                  Jim Nakamura                    x            x
           Jim Karkut                 x           x
                                                                                   Matt Starley                   x            x
          Dale Berreth                x           x
                                                                                     Lilian Taft
     Tim Harpst (Vice Chair)          x           x
                                                                                    Adam Long                     x            x




                                                      BUSINESS MEETING

                                                  Meeting began at – 8:31 a.m.

    1) Approval of the May 12, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve May 12, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Harpst
             2nd by: Commissioner Karkut
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Dark Skies Ordinance Working Update. Planner(s): Jim Nakamura/Matt Starley

        Mr. Starley provided a PowerPoint presentation of the Dark Sky Ordinance Draft.

        Commissioners and Staff had a brief discussion regarding non-conforming uses, use providing
        information, rather than providing assistance. Indoor lighting regulations, use intrusion rather than
        trespass as a violation of a vested property right. Legal should review the term “trespassing”.

        Commercial properties should consider removing ”Unshielded”, as that would be used for large
        parking lots.


Emigration Canyon Planning Commission – June 16, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                               Page 1 of 3
        Include permanent tower for municipal fire or police radio towers or phone company towers to
        come in and put up a tower with heavy lighting with FAA.

        Commissioner Harpst said would like the time flushed out before first draft sent out. Definitions,
        the more the better. Approval process for applications, should be put into a position as much as
        possible is review and approved at an administrative level. Will there be requirements in existing
        lighting coming into compliance. Not have indoor lighting discussion until the ordinance is further
        along. Evaluate the content of drafts against dark skies internationals.

        Commissioner Karkut said agrees with Mr. Harpst to the degree being precise with terms and rule
        out uncertainty, and who makes technical evaluations. Be precise about enforcement and using
        exceptions and variances. Likes the idea and the concept may allow lighting going forward not in
        compliance. Mulling things over and touching base with others and working on the draft before
        review and take the time to review moving forward and be part of this and works.

    3) Other Business Items. (As needed)

        No other business items to discuss.



                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2022-000601 – An Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons
Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection.” The proposed
amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and
parking lots from 100’ to 50’ measured from the ordinary high-water mark. The proposed amendment will
eliminate setback requirements for on-site wastewater disposal systems, which are regulated by Salt Lake
County Health Department. Planner: Jim Nakamura (Motion/Voting)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jim Nakamura provided an analysis of the staff
report.

Commissioners and Staff had a brief discussion regarding Mayor Smolka request regarding citizens
restriction and the 100’ have caused problems, perennial stream definition, Emigration stream issues
different from other streams and studies done and to be done.

Commissioners are concerned with the lack of input and response from EID and the Health Department
and think should be continued until the July meeting. Consideration needs to be completed, nothing wrong
with more protection.

Commissioner Wallace motioned to open the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public present to speak.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To continue file #OAM2022-000601 to the July 14th Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
with regards to an Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons Overlay

Emigration Canyon Planning Commission – June 16, 2022 – Meeting Summary                         Page 2 of 3
Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection.” The proposed
amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and
parking lots from 100’ to 50’ measured from the ordinary high-water mark. The proposed amendment will
eliminate setback requirements for on-site wastewater disposal systems, which are regulated by Salt Lake
County Health Department to allow Emigrations Canyon Improvement District and Salt Lake County
Health Department an opportunity to submit comments regarding the proposed ordinance amendment.
       Motion by: Commissioner Wallace
       2nd by: Commissioner Karkut
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Wallace adjourn.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 9:41 a.m.




Emigration Canyon Planning Commission – June 16, 2022 – Meeting Summary                      Page 3 of 3
                                     Planning & Development Services


                                          File # OAM2022-000601


                                    Ordinance Amendment
                                  Related to Stream Setbacks
                          in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
 Public Body            Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
 Meeting Dates          July 14th, 2022
 Proposal               An Ordinance amending the Emigration Canyon Land Use Code, Foothill Canyons
                        Overlay Zone (FCOZ), Section 19.72.130, “Stream Corridor and Wetlands
                        Protection.” The proposed amendment will amend the Perennial Stream Corridor
                        Setback for Buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots from 100’ to 50’
                        measured from the ordinary high-water mark.
 Planner                Jim Nakamura
 Recommendation         No Recommendation

                                       DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL
The Emigration Canyon Planning Commission has been engaged in the process of assessing and considering
amendments to the Foothill Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). The Planning Commission recognizes the need for
consistency with partner agency standards and the standards in the FCOZ. As such, the MSD Planning staff was
directed to craft an ordinance to amend the FCOZ for the health, safety, and well-being of its residents and visitors.
The purpose of the proposed code amendment to the FCOZ is to adjust the setback standard for development
from a perennial stream to be consistent with the Salt Lake County Health Department and Salt Lake City Public
Utilities water shed regulations. As such, the proposed amendment reduces the setbacks to a perennial stream
corridor from 100 feet to 50 feet. Mention of the 100’ Setback from an onsite wastewater system to a perennial
stream corridor will be removed from chapter 19.72.130 as this Setback is regulated by the State of Utah and
Health Department rules and regulations

                                       PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT
Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 17-27a-205. Public notice was mailed to affected
entities, notice was posted in three public locations, and notice was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at
least 10 days prior to the public hearing on June 16, 2022.
At the time of writing this report, several comments have been received by the MSD Department of Planning and
Development Services. The Emigration Improvement District is recommending approval of the ordinance but Salt
Lake County Health, Salt Lake County Watershed Planning and the Salt Lake County Stormwater Manager all
express concerns or recommend denial. These comments are included in this staff report as attachments 3, 4, 5
and 6.


                               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                  2001 S. State Street #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • (385) 468-6700
Proposal: Stream Set Back Ordinance Amendment                                     File #: OAM2022-000601




                                OPTION FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed ordinance amendment:
Option 1:      Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:      Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:      Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

                                        STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Due to the varied reactions from the agencies submitting comments, staff has decided not to make a
recommendation. The ordinance at issue is a policy decision for the Emigration Canyon Township.

ATTACHMENTS:
1.   Public Notice
2.   Proposed Ordinance 19.72.130
3.   EID (Emigration Improvement District) email in response to setback change
4.   Salt Lake County Watershed response to setback change
5.   Salt Lake County Stormwater Manager response to setback change
6.   Salt Lake County Health Department response to setback change




                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
Attachment 1
Attachment 2



                                         ORDINANCE NO. 2022-___

            ORDINANCE AMENDING EMIGRATION CANYON CODE, SECTION 19.72.130
                    STREAM CORRIDOR AND WETLANDS PROTECTION

       WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) Township
       Council ("Council) is authorized to enact ordinances for the health, safety, and well-being of its
       residents and visitors; and

       WHEREAS, consistency with partner agency standards is an objective in Emigration Canyon;
       and

       WHEREAS, the State of Utah and the Salt Lake County Health Department have rules
       requirements governing setbacks for onsite wastewater disposal systems; and

       WHEREAS, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone standards for setbacks for onsite
       wastewater disposal systems are unnecessary due to those State of Utah and Health Department
       rules and regulations; and

       WHEREAS, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone standards for setbacks from perennial
       streams should be amended from 100 feet to 50 feet to be consistent with partner agencies;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
       as follows:

       SECTION 1. AMENDED. Section 19.72.130 is amended as redlined in Exhibit A.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.


                     PASSED AND APPROVED this ____ Day of _______, 2022.


                                                                    EMIGRATION CANYON
                                                                    METRO TOWNSHIP

                                                                    By: _______________________
                                                                        Joe Smolka, Mayor


       ATTEST:


       ______________________________
       Town Clerk
19.72.130 Stream Corridor And Wetlands Protection

A. Purpose

The following requirements and standards are intended to promote, preserve, and enhance the
important hydrologic, biological, ecological, aesthetic, recreational, and educational functions of
stream corridors, associated riparian areas, and wetlands.

B. Applicability

Unless previously delineated by Township, boundaries for stream corridors and wetland areas are
delineated according to the following standards:

1. Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by a qualified engineer or other
qualified professional with demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct the required site
analysis. Delineations are subject to the approval of the Director.

2. Stream corridors shall be delineated at the ordinary high-water mark. Stream corridors do not include
irrigation ditches that do not contribute to the preservation and enhancement of fisheries or wildlife.

3. Boundary delineation of wetlands are established using the current Federal Manual for Identifying
and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands jointly published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Soil Conservation Service.

C. Prohibited Activities

No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills, dredges, clears, destroys, or
alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation, except for restoration and maintenance
activities allowed in this Chapter as approved by Salt Lake County Flood Control, the Utah State
Engineer’s Office (Division of Water Rights), and other applicable authorities.

D. Setbacks

1. Perennial Stream Corridors

All buildings, accessory structures and, parking lots, and all on-site wastewater disposal systems shall
be set back at least one-hundred fifty (100 50) feet horizontally from the ordinary high-water mark of
perennial stream corridors. (See Figure 19.72.7: Setback from Stream Corridor)

FIGURE 19.72.7: SETBACK FROM STREAM CORRIDOR
2. Wetlands

All buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet, and all on-
site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one-hundred (100) feet horizontally from
the delineated edge of a wetland.

3. Ephemeral Streams

Leach fields shall be set back 100 feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. All buildings, accessory
structures, and parking areas or parking lots shall be set back at least 50 feet from the channel of an
ephemeral stream. The Director may recommend to the land use authority modifications to this
prohibition upon finding that the modification is likely to cause minimal adverse environmental impact
or that such impact may be substantially mitigated. For properties located within the Salt Lake City
watershed, the Director shall consult with Salt Lake City Public Utilities prior to making a
recommendation.

4. Natural Open Space/Landscape Credit for Setback Areas

All setback areas are credited toward any relevant private natural open space or landscape
requirements, but are not credited toward public trail access dedication requirements.

E. Preservation of Vegetation

All existing vegetation within the stream corridor or wetland setback area shall be preserved to provide
adequate screening or to repair damaged riparian areas, supplemented where necessary with
additional native or adapted planting and landscaping.
F. Bridges

Any bridge over a stream corridor and within the stream setback area may be approved, provided the
Director affirms that the bridge is planned and constructed in such a manner as to minimize impacts on
the stream corridor.

G. Modification of Setbacks

1. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively reduce the perennial
stream corridor and wetlands setbacks by a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) where applicable
upon satisfaction of the following criteria:

a. The modification is designed to yield:

i. More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock outcrops, or
other significant natural features of the site;

ii. Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or

iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,

b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.

H. Perennial Stream Corridor and Wetland Setback Requirements for Lots of Record

1. Existing Legally-Established Structures

A structure legally existing on the effective date of this Ordinance that is within fifty (50) feet of a
perennial stream corridor or wetland may be renovated, altered, or expanded or reconstructed if
damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or act of nature as follows:

a. Renovations or alterations or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that will not
increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure are permitted.

b. Renovations, alterations, or expansions that will increase the gross floor area of the original, existing
structure are limited to a cumulative total expansion of no more than 250 square feet of gross floor
area located closer than 50 feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland.

c. Renovations, alterations, expansions, or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that
increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure but which are no closer than fifty (50)
feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland are permitted, subject to compliance with all other
applicable regulations and standards.

2. New Structures

For new developments, the Director may authorize construction to no closer than fifty (50) feet from a
perennial stream corridor or to no closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a wetland subject to the
following criteria:

a. Denial of an encroachment of more than the twenty-five percent (25%) into the stream or wetlands
setback area allowed by 19.72.130(G) would render the site
undevelopable.

b. No alternative location for the development further away from the stream or wetland

is feasible or available.

c. Creative architectural or environmental solutions have been incorporated into the

development proposal in order to ensure that the purposes of stream corridor

protection, as set forth in Subsection 19.72.130 are achieved.

d. No federal or state laws, or other County ordinances or regulations are violated.

3. Limitation

In allowing for the preceding improvements, the Director may not:

a. Increase the maximum limits of disturbance set forth in Subsection 19.72.160.

b. Authorize the encroachment of more than five-hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area of
structural improvements (cumulative total) within the land area between seventy-five (75) feet and
fifty (50) feet from a perennial stream corridor or within the land area between fifty (50) and twenty-
five (25) feet of a wetland
Attachment 3


        From:                Eric Hawkes
        To:                  Wendy Gurr
        Cc:                  Jim Nakamura
        Subject:             Re: Emigration Canyon Improvement District
        Date:                Thursday, June 23, 2022 8:29:00 AM
        Attachments:         image001.png
                             OAM2022-000601 Notice Emigration.pdf
                             Ordinance-Stream Setback 19.72.130 for 6-16-2022.pdf


        Hi Wendy,

        Thanks for reaching out. The Emigration Improvement District is in full support of the
        proposed changes and have no concerns.

        Thank you!
        Eric Hawkes
        801-243-5741

        Sent from my iPhone


               On Jun 22, 2022, at 8:00 AM, Wendy Gurr <WGurr@msd.utah.gov> wrote:


               ﻿
               Good morning, Eric,

               We had mailed notice of a public hearing to the Emigration Canyon Improvement
               District as an Affected Entity on June 3rd. We held this public hearing on June 16th with
               the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission. The results of that meeting were to
               continue the item, until we receive a response from ECID, whether there are concerns
               or not. Would you be so kind to review the attached notice, draft ordinance, and
               provide any feedback to be presented to the Planning Commission at our July meeting?

                   Please let myself or Jim Nakamura know if you have any questions.

                   Thank you for your time.


               Wendy Gurr
               Planning Coordinator
               Planning & Development Services
               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
               2001 S. State St., Suite N3-600
               Salt Lake City, UT 84190
               Email: wgurr@msd.utah.gov
               Phone: 385.468.6707
This email and any files transmitted with it are confidential and intended solely for the
use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received
this email in error, please notify the system manager. This message contains
confidential information and is intended only for the individual named.
Attachment 4



      SLCo Watershed Planning and Restoration Comments:

      The proposed changes in “Staff Report 601” reduce the already inadequate stream buffers in the
      Emigration Canyon FCOZ Ordinance. This action runs contrary to published recommendations in
      Watershed Plans and industry accepted scientific recommendations. As a result, it is recommended the
      Emigration Planning Commission reject proposed FCOZ changes.

      Emigration Creek is listed as impaired for not meeting Water Quality standards for E. coli on the EPA list
      of impaired waters (303(d) list) and has been since 2011. Numerous studies have been conducted that
      indicate failing septic systems located within the canyon are the likely source of the impairment. Salt
      Lake County Watershed Planning and Restoration has collected data in Emigration Canyon for over a
      decade and identified numerous stressors to the water quality in Emigration Creek. These stressors
      include an unstable stream corridor, development on floodplains, lack of riparian corridor preservation,
      and urban development pressures. These stressors lead to increased stormwater pollution loads and
      increased pollution from on-site waste disposal systems as documented in the State of Utah and EPA
      accepted Integrated Watershed Plan (Salt Lake County, 2015). This plan also provides recommendations
      to protect against identified stressors including floodplain re-establishment, riparian buffer restoration
      and/or enhancement and channel restoration/enhancement among others.

      According to the peer-reviewed publication “Scientific Recommendations on the Size of Stream
      Vegetated Buffers Needed to Protect Water Quality” (Montana DEQ, 2008), a publication that reviewed
      77 scientific studies detailing the widths of vegetated buffers needed to protect water quality, a
      VEGETATED buffer width of 100’ is recommended to protect water quality from fecal Coliform pollution
      (which includes E. coli). The existing FCOZ ordinance provides only a building setback of 100’ which does
      not meet the scientific recommendation. Furthermore, the Scientific Recommendations publication
      discussed structural setbacks and vegetated buffers on page 3. In summary, building or structural
      setbacks need to be wide enough to preserve the recommended vegetated buffer but also provide
      space for use areas like lawns and gardens outside the vegetated buffer width to protect water quality.
      The existing FCOZ ordinance provides only a building setback of 100’ which does not meet the scientific
      recommendation.

      Additionally, “Linking fecal bacteria in rivers to landscape, geochemical and hydrologic factors and
      sources at the basin scale” (Verhougstraete et al., 2015) looked at using bacterial tracers to identify
      source pollutants related to E. coli in mixed use watersheds. The research indicates that, “Pollution
      arising from septic system discharges is likely more important than previously realized”. A similar
      research project was performed in 2021 along Emigration Creek. The results from this study indicated
      that E. coli contamination in Emigration Creek is strongly related to human tracers.

      Currently the Emigration Metro Township Council is working on the Upper Emigration Canyon
      Watershed Action Strategy. In a draft from March 2022 the plan states, “The purpose of this Upper
      Emigration Canyon Watershed Action Plan is to provide a living watershed restoration plan document
      for the Emigration Metro Township Council (ECMT) and other project partners to develop and
      implement best management practices that will reduce non-point source pollution loading, improve the
      water quality, and reduce impairments to aquatic life beneficial uses”. The proposed changes to the
      FCOZ will result in actions that undermine these objectives.
Salt Lake County Watershed does not support the proposed ordinance changes in “Staff Report…601”.
Emigration Creek is currently impaired for E. coli by the State of Utah and numerous data sources
indicate the proposed changes will further impair Emigration Creek.
Attachment 5




   Stormwater Manager Comments:

   As the Stormwater Manager responsible for documenting Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   Permit (UPDES or Stormwater Permit) compliance activities on behalf of the Emigration Canyon Metro
   Township, it is my recommendation the Planning Commission reject the changes proposed in “Staff
   Report 601” for the following reasons.

   Stormwater pollution can contain a variety of pollutants including E. coli, sediment, nutrients, oils and
   others. This pollution originates from storm related runoff flowing from impervious surfaces like roads,
   driveways, roofs, etc. These pollutants, when they make their way to Emigration Creek, will add to the
   existing pollutants of concern summarized in the Upper Emigration Creek Total Maximum Daily Load
   (TMDL) study (DWQ, 2011). The first Best Management Practice listed in the Emigration Creek TMDL
   study to help control E. coli contamination in the stream is “Improve/Increase Streamside Vegetated
   Buffers”, (DWQ, 2011). The proposed FCOZ changes accomplish the opposite of the recommended BMP.

   The state DWQ is currently producing a TMDL study for the entire County which will have additional
   recommendations and requirements for all UPDES permitted municipal bodies, which includes the
   Emigration Canyon metro township. The State DWQ regulates compliance with UPDES permitted
   activities and requirements and can levy fines for activities that violate said requirements. An example
   of these fines include the $280,000 fine paid by Salt Lake County for UPDES violations observed in the
   2012 DWQ audit.

   This new TMDL study could be very impactful to the Emigraiton Canyon Metro Township as it states
   “MS4s potential “high-priority” facility list, and those with increased risk of E. coli discharges shall be
   identified as “high priority.” Sites that have been identified as potential sources of E. coli must have
   BMPs (structural and/or nonstructural) that reduce the potential of the discharge of E. coli.”

   Areas with septic are known sources of E. coli contamination. According to the language in the TMDL,
   these areas are to be given special protections in the form of Best Management Practices known to
   reduce the E. coli loading to waterways, like vegetated stream buffers. The reduction of such areas is
   contrary to industry accepted best practices and does not satisfy the intent of the TMDL.

   Additionally, Emigration Canyon Metro Township is in the process of drafting a new watershed plan that
   identifies stormwater runoff as one of the three issues of concern for the Emigration Creek Watershed
   (Emigration Creek Watershed Plan, page 3, 2022). This plan in only in draft form and has not been
   accepted by the state or EPA, but eventually it could be used to leverage grant funds from the State of
   Utah to assist with non-point source pollution related problems. Reducing stream setbacks is not
   protective of water quality as the UPDES Permit requires and is not in keeping with the intent of the
   Watershed Plan.

   For these reasons it is recommended the Emigration Planning Commission reject the proposed changes
   to the FCOZ ordinance.
Attachment 6


         From:            Ronald Lund
         To:              Jim Nakamura
         Cc:              Erik Nebeker; Jessica Antezano; Eric Peterson; Dan Moore; Tim Bywater; Tom Hudachko; Angela Dunn
         Subject:         Comments
         Date:            Tuesday, July 5, 2022 9:18:20 AM
         Attachments:     image001.png


         The Health Department has shared concerns with the original recommendation to change the
         planning ordinances and objects to any implication or change that Health Department Regulations
         do not apply in Emigration Canyon. Health Department Regulations are governed by the Salt Lake
         County Board of Health and apply to the Health Department’s jurisdiction, which in this case, is the
         incorporated and unincorporated County. In addition, the Health Department is tasked with
         enforcing applicable State rules and laws related to Environmental Quality and Health.

         The Department and State rules have provisions related to setbacks in the watershed and onsite
         wastewater systems. Both may be issues in part or all of Emigration Canyon. These setbacks do
         require certain elements of a building to be outside of 100’ of a stream, waterway, pond, lake, and
         so on. Further, there may be other interested parties to this issue. Specifically, Robert Thompson,
         with Salt Lake County Flood Control has the responsibility to protect rivers and streams from
         contamination from a variety of sources, and has been involved with riparian corridor and set backs
         to protect from animal waste, proper vegetation and maintenance, and other aspects of protection.

         The Health Department encourages that the MSD and Emigration planning continue to work with us,
         to protect the Waters of the State. Changes to ordinances by the planning commission will not
         remove the responsibility for property owners to meet Health Department rules and regulations, as
         well as, applicable State laws and rules.

         If you have any questions, you may contact me at 385-468-3835.

         Sincerely,

         Ron

                         Ron Lund, MPH
                         Division Director
                         Environmental Health

                         T 385-468-3902
                         M 801-231-6316
                         rlund@slco.org
                         SaltLakeHealth.org




         From: Jim Nakamura <JNakamura@msd.utah.gov>
         Sent: Thursday, June 16, 2022 10:06 AM
From:            Wendy Gurr
To:              larryh@aquaenviron.com
Cc:              Jim Nakamura
Subject:         Emigration Canyon Public Hearing
Date:            Wednesday, June 22, 2022 1:25:00 PM
Attachments:     image001.png
                 OAM2022-000601 Notice Emigration.pdf
                 Ordinance-Stream Setback 19.72.130 for 6-16-2022.pdf


Good afternoon, Larry,

We had mailed notice of a public hearing to the Spring Glen Water Company as an Affected Entity on
June 3rd. We held this public hearing on June 16th with the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission,
and this item was continued to July. Today I received the notice returned from the post office of the
address we have on record for Spring Glen Water Company as no such number. Would you be so
kind to update our office of a good mailing address for future noticing? I’ve also attached a copy of
the notice and draft ordinance for your review.

Please let myself or Jim Nakamura know if you have any questions.

Thank you for your time.


Wendy Gurr
Planning Coordinator
Planning & Development Services
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
2001 S. State St., Suite N3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
Email: wgurr@msd.utah.gov
Phone: 385.468.6707




This email and any files transmitted with it are confidential and intended solely for the use of the
individual or entity to whom they are addressed. If you have received this email in error, please notify
the system manager. This message contains confidential information and is intended only for the
individual named.
