DATE            TUESDAY                              OCTOBER                              25, 2022

          THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH,
MET ELECTRONICALLY ON TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2022, PURSUANT TO
ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2022, AT THE HOUR OF 7:00 P.M., VIA
ZOOM.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECRONICALLY PRESENT:                DAVID BREMS
                                      ROBERT PINON
                                      JENNIFER HAWKES, Deputy Mayor
                                      JOE SMOLKA, Mayor

COUNCIL MEMBER EXCUSED:               CATHERINE HARRIS

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                 CAMERON PLATT, LEGAL COUNSEL
                                      GORDON BENNETT, ADMINISTRATOR
                                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                Mayor Smolka, Chair, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-202 the undersigned, as Mayor of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council, hereby declares that providing an anchor location for the
electronic meetings of the Council will present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location for the following reasons:

              The Township is located in Salt Lake County and is still under a “Medium Level of
Transmission” alert stage for the COVID 19 pandemic; and

                The regular meeting place for the Council (the Fire Station in the Canyon) does
not have sufficient space in the meeting room to provide for the recommended physical distancing
to keep people safe from infection.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        PUBLIC MEETING

Citizen Input

                None.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from other Municipal Providers

Emigration Canyon Community Council (ECCC)



                                                 1
DATE              TUESDAY                             OCTOBER                             25, 2022


                  Bill Tobey stated Unified Fire Authority (UFA) crews extended the fuel break in
the Acorn Hills neighborhood. It extends north through the first switchback and up to Middle Oak
Lane. November 18, 2022, is the deadline for Firewise recertification. CERT cannot be relaunched
until training is scheduled. Tyler Tippets continues to recruit team members and trainers. The
Community Council election will be held in November. Voter information pamphlets have been
mailed to residents. There are six open seats with three candidates, recruiting is ongoing.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD)

                  Chief Wayne Dial introduced Detective Dawn Larsen as the Emigration Canyon
C.O.P. Officer.

                  Detective Larsen stated that if the Council needs anything, to let her know.

                  Mayor Smolka asked how the marathon went.

               Detective Larsen stated there were a few issues at the beginning. The 5K
marathon was not clearly defined. When buses tried to turn around it blocked the road and caused
delays. The lane markers were not well defined, and more signage was needed. Runners were
veering off into the west bound lanes causing traffic issues, additional candle sticks to keep
runners in the east bound lanes were needed. Volunteers were not at their stations when they
needed to be.

             Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked if there were cones all the way down the canyon
and if recommendations could be made to other events concerning cones and spacing.

                Detective Larsen stated the cones were few and far between and small. She will
talk to Michelle McCabe, Permit Specialist, about the issues.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the banners used, were approved and probably
should not have been. The signage is usually done by electronic signs. The event organizers
were told to include those in addition to whatever signage it was using. In the future, electronic
signs should be used.

                  Detective Larsen stated she had the electronic signs up informing drivers of the
marathon.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

                  Mayor Smolka stated Council Member Harris emailed UFA’s report to Council
Members.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                                  2
DATE           TUESDAY                              OCTOBER                            25, 2022

Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District

                Pam Roberts, General Manager, WFWRD, introduced Paul Korth, Finance
Director, WFWRD. She reviewed the 2023 budget and priorities the District has. A fee increase
of $2.50 is being proposed to the board. She reviewed the various programs that WFWRD offers
residents. WFWRD continues to deal with staffing issues. In 2018, WFWRD began having trouble
hiring enough CDL drivers to keep the bulk waste program the same. In 2020 it was short full-
time and part-time driver positions and that created the need to change the bulk waste pick up
program to the Seasonal Container Reservation Program (SCRP). She continues to look for
improvements and ways to absorb increases in costs. A public hearing for the budget will be held
on November 14, 2022, at 6:00 pm at 6960 South 604 West.

               Paul Korth, Finance Director, WFWRD, reviewed cost increases since the last fee
increase in 2018 and WFWRD’s cash projections for 2022-2026.


                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Salt Lake County Animal Services

            Gary Bowen, Emigration Canyon Metro Township Representative, Salt Lake
County Animal Services Advisory Board, stated the first in-person meeting will be held on
November 3, 2022. Animal Services has regular adoption and other type of events. He
recommended putting these events in the Emigration Canyon newsletter and website.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated she could add those to the community calendar on
the website. She asked Mr. Bowen to get her the information.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Business

Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities

               Mayor Smolka stated since Emigration Canyon Metro Township shares boarders
with Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU), it wanted to invite Laura Briefer,
Director, to the meeting to discuss various topics. He asked Ms. Briefer to explain what the
Department of Public Utilities does.

                Ms. Briefer stated the Department of Public Utilities provides drinking water,
manages the watersheds, manages flood control and stormwater, collects and treats wastewater,
maintains and enhances public street lighting. When working with Emigration Canyon it is usually
regarding water. SLCDPU owns land in Emigration Canyon, in the City Creek Canyon area. The
annual budget is around $350 million a year. It is working on repairing and replacing aging water
infrastructure.

She updated the Council on initiatives that she would like Emigration Canyon’s participation in.
Emigration Canyon is part of the watershed protection program. In 1999 a major update to the
watershed plan was completed and has had small updates since; however, comprehensive


                                                3
DATE            TUESDAY                              OCTOBER                              25, 2022

updates need to be made. This update is part of a large public process. During the summer, a
scientific study was completed, the analysis was presented to the public. They continue to hold
meetings to get feedback. She would like Emigration Canyon’s feedback on the Watershed
Program update. Comments can be submitted online. The draft plan will be ready in early 2023
and then will be presented to the public for comment, the Council will review and then adopt it.
Any feedback at anytime would be great for the whole process.

               Mayor Smolka stated he gets questions regarding work being done at Mountain
Dell Reservoir.

              Ms. Briefer stated Mountain Dell Reservoir’s dam is undergoing rehabilitation. The
concrete was starting to fail, and the dam needs to be relined. A cofferdam was built so the dam
could be drained, and the face of the dam could be worked on. It is scheduled to be competed
next year.


               Mayor Smolka asked what the water extraction is that SLCDPU takes from the
tunnel at the bottom of the canyon.

              Ms. Briefer stated it is a clean water source that is part of the water supply that
can be used year round. Upgrades have been made to that system.

               Mayor Smolka asked what the thoughts of SLCDPU regarding the trails are.

               Ms. Briefer stated she has not formulated an opinion on what Parks and
Recreation is doing with the Trail Master Plan. SLCDPU tries to be thoughtful of trails if they are
in the protected watershed areas.

                Mayor Smolka stated a big concern in Emigration Canyon is wildfire. One of the
things it has been doing is creating fire breaks at the bottom of the canyon below Sunnydale, who
owns that land.

               Ms. Briefer stated with the exact coordinates, she can check to see if SLCDPU or
Salt Lake City owns it.

               Mayor Smolka asked Bill Tobey, Emigration Canyon Community Council, to follow
up with Ms. Briefer regarding that land. The Council is interested in adding a fire break to protect
those homes.

              Ms. Briefer stated SLCDPU is partnering with the Division of Fire Forestry on an
oak brush mastication project in Parleys Canyon that the Council may be interested in. The
Council can reach out to her anytime with questions, concerns or just wanting to connect.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Community Renewable Energy Program




                                                 4
DATE           TUESDAY                              OCTOBER                             25, 2022

               Council Member Brems stated the Board is looking at finalizing an ordinance for
communities to review and adopt. Moving forward with the program, what additional payments
will Emigration Canyon Metro Township need to make.

               Emily Quinton, Sustainability Program Manager, stated Emigration Canyon Metro
Township will not be receiving another invoice for funds.

                 Christopher Thomas, Senior Energy and Climate Program Manager, presented
a PowerPoint presentation updating the Council on the Community Renewable Energy Program.
He reviewed the agency structure, 2030 goals, how the program will work, implementation
timeline, plans for low-income assistance, and the draft ordinance to finalize the community’s
participation in the program. The ordinance is anticipated to be finalized in December 2022 by the
Board. The ordinance will need to be adopted within 90 days once approved by the Utah PSC. If
the Council has any feedback regarding the ordinance, they can contact him.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code Rewrite

               Matt Starley stated the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) is
moving forward with the Emigration Canyon Metro Township code rewrite. He presented phase
one to the Council in August and have had a couple of comments. He recommended having a
joint meeting with the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission and the Council.

               Mayor Smolka stated some of the zones in the code are not necessary in the
canyon. There is commercial property in the upper part of the canyon that has since turned into
a private residence. Can the Council initiate a zone change or does the property owner need to
do that.

               Mr. Starley stated the property is a consolidation of four properties. The property
owner would need to request a change in zone. He proposed parks and recreation zones that
could potentially be used moving forward. The Council can decide to not include those in the
code. It may be a good idea to have the Planning Commission look at it and do some more
research.

               Council Member Brems asked for an update on the dark sky ordinance.

              Mr. Starley stated an ordinance is being drafted. There have been three rounds
of comments from the Planning Commission. The ordinance will soon be ready to present to the
Council.

               Council Member Brems stated if we adopt a dark sky ordinance, the Council
should have strong support from the community. He recommended sending a mailer, fact sheet,
or questioner to residents explaining the ordinance and to gain feedback.

               Mayor Smolka stated he would like the community informed.

               Mr. Starley stated he could create a website with the information and provide a
survey.



                                                5
DATE           TUESDAY                              OCTOBER                              25, 2022


                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax and Municipal Telecommunication’s License Tax

               Cameron Platt stated before the Council can enact the tax, the Council will need
to adopt an ordinance indicating how the tax will be used. He is working on drafting an ordinance
for the Council to consider at its next meeting.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Ordinance Prohibiting Camping

              Cameron Platt stated an ordinance prohibiting camping would help enforce
complaints as there are no areas in the canyon where camping is prohibited. Regulations can
only be made on property that is owned by the Metro Township; he is working on identifying those
boundaries.

             Council Member Pinon stated he would like language to address tents. Does the
Metro Township have any rights regarding easements.

              Mr. Platt stated it depends on the easement. If there is a utility easement, then the
Metro Township has rights to put utilities on the property but not regulate it. The Metro Township
can regulate what can be done on property to a degree. It can restrict how long people can live
in an RV on a property.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the timeframe of four hours that an individual must
move a vehicle, may be an extensive amount of time and five minutes is unreasonable.

               Chief Wayne Dial stated the timeframe depends on the circumstances. If it is a
motor vehicle, five minutes would be enough time to move. If someone is pulled over because
they could be a danger to the public, then it could be longer. He suggested a 30 minute timeframe.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA)

               The Council did not have any additional recommendations on how to use the
ARPA funds.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council Meeting Dates

             The Council agreed to hold the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
meetings on November 15, 2022, and December 20, 2022.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−


                                                6
DATE           TUESDAY                             OCTOBER                            25, 2022

Broadband Update

                Council Member Pinon stated Utah Broadband placed a repeater on the top of
Got Teeth Lane. Residents should have received a mailer informing them of what Utah Broadband
is doing in the canyon and will invite them to sign up with a provider.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Legal Issues

               None.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Budget Items

               Mayor Smolka stated invoices for clerk services and legal counsel were paid. The
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) tentatively passed the budget which included
Emigration Canyon Metro Townships proposed budget.

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated that an invoice for the restroom has been received.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Minutes

               Council Member Pinon, seconded by Council Member Brems, moved to approve
the minutes of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council meeting held on September 27,
2022. The motion passed unanimously.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Member Reports

Administrative Report

               Gordon Bennett stated he is coordinating with Unified Fire Authority (UFA) and
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) to get Wi-Fi working so the Council can
hold hybrid meetings. He will coordinate with UFA to get access to the building to upgrade and
test the equipment. He will be able to connect to UFA’s guest Wi-Fi.

              Council Member Pinon stated a speed test needs to be done and determine if
there is enough bandwidth. He offered to test video call capabilities with Mr. Gordon.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD) & Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)




                                               7
DATE           TUESDAY                            OCTOBER                          25, 2022

              Council Member Brems stated UPD and SLVLESA will meet tomorrow, there is
nothing new to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) & Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Watershed Plan

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

             Council Member Pinon stated there is nothing additional to report beyond what
Pam Roberts reported on earlier in the meeting.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Association of Municipal Councils

              Nothing to report.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Website

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes asked Gary Bowen to provide her with the Animal
Services information so she can put it on the website.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CodeRED

                Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated a notification regarding the marathon was sent to
residents. She would like a policy in place to determine who can request a CodeRED and what
the notification can be.




                                              8
DATE               TUESDAY                        OCTOBER                           25, 2022

             Cameron Platt stated he will follow up with Polly McLean, Legal Counsel, and put
something together.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Restrooms

               Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the Abstract Masonry Construction is not up there.
She reached out to the contractors, and they are running behind. She asked them to secure the
materials that are on site.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT)

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Smolka stated the MSD Board passed the tentative budget.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Landfill Council

               Mayor Smolka stated landfill revenues are ahead for 2022.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)

               Nothing to report.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Council of Governments (COG)

             Mayor Smolka stated temporary overflow shelter for homeless individuals was
determined and is being prepared for winter.

                                    −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Legislative Update




                                              9
DATE           TUESDAY                             OCTOBER                            25, 2022

             Mayor Smolka stated there is a possibility of getting an emergency notification
system funded by the state that municipalities could use for free. That could change how the
Metro Township uses CodeRED.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Other Announcements

                Mayor Smolka stated the Pinecrest project had a final walkthrough and some
clean-up. Next spring the road will be widened a couple of feet. The puddle in Pinecrest is just
about under control. A culvert was opened to help with the flow of water. Dirt work behind the
jersey barriers is completed.

He attended emergency training for elected officials. He recommends that the Council attend the
training on November 19, 2022. If the Council cannot attend the training, an online option is
available. The FEMA website offers NIMS training.

              Deputy Mayor Hawkes stated the Wasatch Choice meeting is on November 2,
2022.


                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.




_____________________________________________________
MAYOR, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL




                                           SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                            By: ______________________________________
                                                Deputy Clerk


                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦


                                              10
