8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                 DARK SKY ORDINANCE
                                                         MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   What are Dark Skies?




                                       Night Sky Environment
                                       The cycles of light and dark, created by celestial bodies outside of the earth’s atmosphere
                                       directed cycles of activity and growth for all living things on earth until the proliferation of
                                       lighting technologies. Today a view from space of earth’s surface at night reveals a matrix of
                                       lights, stretching from metropolis to metropolis illuminating those areas most influenced by
                                       humanity. Understanding your role in the Night Sky Environment can help you make choices
                                       that reduce the impact lighting is having on you and your community.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky       5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky       2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                                      What are Dark Skies?




                                           Our Impact
                                           Many of us have experienced this scenario: a neighbor installs a new light on their property. It’s
                                           an unshielded fixture that casts a bright light that spills onto your property and perhaps even
                                           inside your home. Frustrating right?

                                           Have you considered that you might be that neighbor in someone else’s scenario? Steep slopes
                                           in Emigration Canyon can create scenarios in which light sources can directly effect homes at
                                           great distances. The four topics below; Skyglow
                                                                                   Skyglow, Light Pollution, Light Trespass, and Glare, can
                                           help you better understand the potential impacts of uncontrolled light.




                                                                                     My Neighbor’s Lighting
                                                                                  International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky       2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                                  What are Dark Skies?




                                        Skyglow
                                        Skyglow occurs when ambient manmade light floods the sky creating a glow that can be almost as
                                        bright as dawn or dusk. The accumulated light washes the night sky of its luminosity and brilliance,
                                        forcing urban and suburban dwellers who wish to enjoy a view of the Milky Way Galaxy or constellations
                                              to make a pilgrimage to areas where light pollutions does not exist or is better controlled.

                                           Communities and areas can be rated as to the quality of their Night Sky Environment from 9 to 1
                                                       based on the levels of Skyglow effecting their night sky environment.

                                                                  Where would you rate your community on the scale below?
8/9. City/Inner City Sky                   7. City/Suburbia Transition    6. Bright Suburban Sky                      5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition                      3. Rural Sky           2. Dark-Sky Site                   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Why do Dark Skies Matter?

               Human Health                                                   Ecological Health                                                                 Waste                                                         Safety
          Humans Need The Natural                                                  Artificial Lights Disrupt                              Light Pollution Costs Money                                      Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer
             Day/Night Cycle                                                              Ecosystems                                         And Wastes Resources                                         Lighting up the nighttime environment
   Our biological clocks help keep us healthy.                           Plants and animals depend on Earth’s                           Poorly designed outdoor lighting wastes                           does not necessarily improve safety or
   When our master clock is out of sync with                             daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-                  energy by not being shielded, emitting                            security. This may seem contradictory, but
   the day/night cycle, it’s called circadian                            sustaining behaviors such as reproduction,                     more light than necessary or shining                              there is no clear scientific evidence that
   disruption. Altering or interrupting our                              nourishment, sleep and protection from                         when and where it’s not needed. Wasting                           increased outdoor lighting deters crime
   normal circadian rhythm can put us at risk                            predators. Scientific evidence suggests                        energy in this way has huge economic and                                      and increases safety.
    for physiological and behavioral impacts.                            that artificial light at night has negative                          environmental consequences.
                                                                         and deadly effects on many creatures,
                                                                         including amphibians, birds, mammals,
                                                                                  invertebrates, and plants.




            Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk                                Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife                             Light Pollution Costs Money and                             Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety
                      International Dark Sky Association                                 International Dark Sky Association                                 Wastes Resources                                        International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                      International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition      6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                           Why do Dark Skies Matter?




                                                                                     Human Health
                                                             Humans Need The Natural Day/Night Cycle
                                       Our biological clocks help keep us healthy. When our master clock is out of sync with the day/night
                                       cycle, it’s called circadian disruption. Altering or interrupting our normal circadian rhythm can put
                                                                  us at risk for physiological and behavioral impacts.




                                                         Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk
                                                                        International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky     5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                          Why do Dark Skies Matter?




                                                                                  Ecological Health
                                                                         Artificial Lights Disrupt Ecosystems
                                       Plants and animals depend on Earth’s daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-sustaining
                                       behaviors such as reproduction, nourishment, sleep and protection from predators. Scientific
                                       evidence suggests that artificial light at night has negative and deadly effects on many creatures,
                                                      including amphibians, birds, mammals, invertebrates, and plants.




                                                                Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife
                                                                        International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition      6. Bright Suburban Sky      5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                              Why do Dark Skies Matter?




                                                                                                      Waste
                                                         Light Pollution Costs Money And Wastes Resources
                                       Poorly designed outdoor lighting wastes energy by not being shielded, emitting more light than
                                       necessary or shining when and where it’s not needed. Wasting energy in this way has huge economic
                                                                      and environmental consequences.




                                                                           Light Pollution Costs Money and
                                                                                  Wastes Resources
                                                                                International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky         5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                               Why do Dark Skies Matter?




                                                                                                      Safety
                                                                                  Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer
                                     Lighting up the nighttime environment does not necessarily improve safety or security. This may
                                     seem contradictory, but there is no clear scientific evidence that increased outdoor lighting deters
                                                                         crime and increases safety.




                                                         Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety
                                                                     International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky          7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition    3. Rural Sky           2. Dark-Sky Site     1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Dark Sky Friendly?

         1                 Take the Quiz
                           Do you know if your home lighting is community and night sky friendly?
                           Follow the steps below to find out. Most people will find that a few
                           simple changes can lead to lighting that is both beautiful and functional,
                           without contributing to excessive light pollution.
                                                                                                                                          Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
                                                                                                                                                          International Dark Sky Association




     2                     Review YOUR Ordinance
                           Emigration Canyon Metro Township
                           DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING


                                                                                                                                                                                     Municode
                                                                                                                                                           Emigration Canyon Metro Township




     3                     Develop YOUR Plan
                           Follow the steps below and utilize the Emigration Canyon Dark Skies Do’s and
                           Dont’s guide to develop a Dark Sky Adapted Lighting Plan for your Property!
                           1. Draw a simple sketch of your property
                           2. Differentiate the Hardscape Areas From the Softscape Areas
                           3. Identify all the places you would like to light, and when you would like to light
                           them.
                           4. Mark on your plan where you will place a light source.
                           5. Create a list of the luminairs you will use, and identify on the plan which luminairs
                           will be used at each light source.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition        3. Rural Sky       2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                                   Dark Sky Friendly? | Take the Quiz




   Take the Quiz
   Do you know if your home lighting is community and night sky friendly?
   Follow the steps below to find out. Most people will find that a few
   simple changes can lead to lighting that is both beautiful and functional,
   without contributing to excessive light pollution.
                                                                                                                             Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
                                                                                                                                        International Dark Sky Association
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky               2. Dark-Sky Site          1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                    Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




               Review YOUR Ordinance
               Emigration Canyon Metro Township
               DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING


                                                                                                                                                                                  Municode
                                                                                                                                                   Emigration Canyon Metro Township
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                    Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




                                                                                                    Useful
                                                           Use light only if it is needed
                                             All light should have a clear purpose. Consider
                                                    how the use of light will impact the area,
                                                         including wildlife and their habitats..
8/9. City/Inner City Sky     7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky     4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                       Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




                                                                                                      Targeted
                 Direct light so it falls only where it is needed
                      Use shielding and careful aiming to target the direction of
                       the light beam so that it points downward and does not
                                                spill beyond where it is needed.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky         7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                          Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




                                                                                                    Low Level
                           Light should be no brighter than necessary
                           Use the lowest light level required. Be mindful of surface
                           conditions, as some surfaces may reflect more light into
                                                         the night sky than intended.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition      6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                       Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




                                                                                          Controlled
                                                         Use light only when it is needed
                                 Use controls such as timers or motion detectors
                                to ensure that light is available when it is needed,
                                dimmed when possible, and turned off when not
                                                                             needed.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky    4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                    Dark Sky Friendly? | Review YOUR Ordinance




                                                                                                              Color
                           Use warmer color lights where possible
                           Limit the amount of shorter wavelength (blue-violet)
                                             light to the least amount needed.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                                                                Dark Sky Friendly? | Develop YOUR Plan




                               Develop your
                               Night Lighting Plan
                               In 5 basic Steps
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition       3. Rural Sky     2. Dark-Sky Site            1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           1. Sketch your Property’s
                           Landscape Plan
                                                                                                                                        Measure distances and areas in Google Earth
                                                                                                                                                                                Google Earth Help




                                                                                                    Use what you have!
                                                                                                    Do you already have a landscape plan?
                                                                                                    What are looking for is a calculation of the square
                                                                                                    footage (sq. ft.) of the areas you would like to light.

                                                                                                    If not, a pen and paper will do.
                                                                                                    Go analog. Pace of your areas for a ruff estimate, draw
                                                                                                    them on a piece of paper to use as a reference.

                                                                                                    Use Google Earth
                                                                                                    There are a number of applications online that can
                                                                                                    help you measure the square footage of an area. You
                                                                                                    may find the tools available in Google Earth quite
                                                                                                    useful for this. (LINK)
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky       4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           2. Differentiate the
                           Hardscape Areas From the
                           Softscape Areas
                                                                                                    Why differentiate?
                                                                                                    We typically have very different expectations
                                                                                                    about how we light hard and softscape areas.
                                                                                                    By prioritizing hardscape first, you will ensure you are
                                                                                                    being targeted and useful with your lighting choices.

                                                                                                    Hardscape Any non-living horizontal site ele-
                                                                                                    ment, including but not limited to patios, decks,
                                                                                                    walkways, sidewalks, driveways, and steps.
                                                                                                    Any surface that you intentionally installed to move
                                                                                                    around on or park a car.

                                                                                                    Softscape Any area within the site plan where
                                                                                                    hardscape is not present.
                                                                                                    These areas are your turf grass, your planter beds, your
                                                                                                    garden.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky       4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           3. Identify places you would
                           like to light, and when you
                           might need them lit
                                                                                                    Think Safety. Think Fun.
                                                                                                    Remember the 5 guiding principles: Useful,
                                                                                                    Targeted, Low Levels, Controlled, & Color
                                                                                                    Prioritize areas that will be most heavily traveled. Plan
                                                                                                    for activities that you would like to take place you your
                                                                                                    yard.

                                                                                                    Calculate the sq. ft. of each individual hardscape
                                                                                                    area you wish to light.
                                                                                                    This will help you calculate how much lighting you will
                                                                                                    need to light each individual area.

                                                                                                    Combine the total sq. ft. of all the hardscape
                                                                                                    areas you wish to light.
                                                                                                    You can get a general sense of how much light
                                                                                                    you will be allowed on your property. Assuming a
                                                                                                    typical mounting height a 60 lumen will illuminate
                                                                                                    approximately a 60 sq. ft. area for outdoor residential
                                                                                                    properties.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky           2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           4. Mark on your plan
                           where you will place
                           each light source                                                                                                           Find Dark Sky Friendly Lighting
                                                                                                                                                       International Dark Sky Association




                                                                                                    Lighting Choice
                                                                                                    X Foot candles Allowed / Sq. Ft. Hardscape =
                                                                                                    Total Lumen
                                                                                                    Use this simple formula to curate a lighting plan that
                                                                                                    meets the standards adopted by your community.

                                                                                                    Use only Full Shielded Fixtures!
                                                                                                    Do not shine or reflect light upwards! Choose
                                                                                                    luminairs and fixtures that emit no light above the
                                                                                                    horizontal plain. Need help? Use the QR Code above
                                                                                                    for advice.

                                                                                                    Use bulbs with color temperature of less than
                                                                                                    three thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
                                                                                                    Don’t use lights that are blue or over white in color.

                                                                                                    Take advantage of exemptions.
                                                                                                    Using motion sensors, and pathway lights under 18”
                                                                                                    in height allows you to install lighting that is excluded
                                                                                                    from your total lumen count.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky    7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           5. Create a list of the products used
                           for each light source.

                           Demonstrate compliant lighting.
                           Identify exceptions.
                           Follow your lighting plan.
                           The easiest and most cost effective way to be Dark Sky Friendly is turn off
                           lights when they are not in use.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site
