                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        matstarley@msd.utah.gov




               DARK SKY ORDINANCE | PROGRESS REPORT
                         Part of the UPDATE OF MUNICIPAL CODE:
                                 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
Public Body: Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
MSD Planner: Matthew Starley, Long Range Planner
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Review and Comment

                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Emigration Canyon Metro Township has identified in the Community Values section of the General Plan that
environmental sustainability & protection of the natural environment is important to community members, and
the identity of the Metro Township. The expressed aim of the General Plan is to “maintain or enhance
environmental sustainability and stewardship now and for future generations; this includes but is not limited to
features such as water quality, open space, noise management, dark skies, air quality, biodiversity, and climate
resilience.” pg. 30-31

Utah Department of Workforce Services (UDWS) has distributed a “Guidance & Best Practices: Dark Sky
Planning” manual intended to introduce Elected Officials and their communities to dark sky planning and
concepts. In this document, DWS established the importance of night sky planning by describing some of the
issues associated with light pollution.

         Light pollution is a threat because of the negative effects on humans and the environment as
         well as long-term consequences, such as biodiversity, economic, and cultural loss, that cannot
           easily be reversed. However, in contrast to other types of pollution, the negative effects of
                            light pollution can be mitigated easily and cost-effectively.
                                                          UDWS, Guidance & Best Practices: Dark Sky Planning, pg. 6

To mitigate these potential negative effects, Emigration Canyon planning staff have engaged to develop and
more robust Night Sky Ordinance that is intended to update the existing municipal code 19.73.110 Night
Lighting. Regular progress reports have been made to the Planning Commission and feedback has been
integrated. The draft shared in coordination with this report, Emigration Canyon MT_Dark Sky Ordinance
Draft_Round 7, will constitute the sixth draft to be shared with the commission.

For this Draft 7, MSD staff have integrated the thoughtful comments made by PC members. Quick highlights to
look for in this draft:

Open Comments: Items that we should discuss in the next working session.
Resolved Comments: Items that have been addressed, left identified for your scrutiny.
Language suggested being removed.
Language that should be addressed
Language that has been modified for your consideration

   •   Temporary Exterior or Decorative Lighting
          o Temporary exterior or decorative lighting, provided that individual lamps do not exceed 70
             lumens, the total output of temporary lighting does not cause the property to exceed total
             allowable footcandle levels detailed in this Chapter, and the lighting does not cause light
             intrusion nor interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
                  This had been reworded to improve clarity.

   •   Signs.
           o Where other municipal ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, this
              Chapter shall apply and take precedence.
                  This had been reworded to improve clarity.

           o    Lighting for signs must utilize stationary and constant lighting.
           o    All signage elements must be stationary.
                      Definitions for Stationary and Constant have been added to the Definitions Section.
   •   Prohibited Lighting
            o Floodlights or Spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of lighting parking lots.
                      Is this language that we want to include?
   •   Hillsides, ridgelines, and special cases.
            o Any light source that is directly visible from outside the property boundaries on which the light
                source is located, the property owner shall be required to demonstrate a good faith effort to
                redirect, shield, and/or diffuse the light source to address any unintended effect on the quality
                of night sky conditions within the municipality. This provision does not apply to existing lighting
                during which time it is subject to the amortization period identified in this Chapter.
                      This had been reworded to improve clarity.
   •   Definitions Section
            o Definitions section has been improved. Some superfluous definitions have been removed. Others
                have been improved for clarity.

   •   Poster Graphics
          o Poster Graphics have advanced considerably. Examples for your comment have been made
               available with this round of updates. Included pdfs:
                    Poster Working 48x60
                    Poster Working 48x30
                    Slide Show Working
          o Please make any comments you may have on these pdfs.



                                GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
Language about protecting and promoting the health and long-term sustainability of the natural environment in
the canyon is a consistent theme throughout the General Plan document. There are also many instances in
which the connection between the quality of the night sky environment and ecological and community health
are identified. Updates to the dark sky ordinance existing are supported by the General Plan Work Program.
The following is an exert from the General Plan Work Program, which outlines the creation and enactment of a
Dark Sky Ordinance as an Immediate and Ongoing action item.

Chapter 5: Environment Work Program (Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022 pg. 144-145)
   • Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional and diverse.
            o   Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protection for nocturnal
                wildlife.
                     Actions - a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky-compliant light-pollution control
                          ordinance.
                     Lead(s) - PDS, PC, EC Metro
                     Timeline - Immediate and ongoing
                     Cost - Staff time
                     Metric - Ordinance enacted
                     Resources - See also objective 2.3.2a



                                      LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
Suggested updates to the zoning ordinance would apply to all land use zones within the Metro Township.
However, the ordinance is being presented at this time for discussion purposes only. Staff has not initiated the
process for adopting the drafted language. The intent is to control the use of night lighting between the hours of
1 hour after dusk, until 6:00 am the following morning general, with some exceptions for commercial properties
and special conditions that require lighting for safety. It is the opinion of planning staff that controlling nighttime
lighting use through the update of the existing Night Sky Ordinance will support the current land use expressed
within the canyon by reinforcing the naturalistic and rural character of the community.

Unique standards exist for properties containing:
   • Residential | Single-Family Detached Housing Units
   • Residential | Multi-Family Housing Units
   • Commercial Uses & Religious Institutions


                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Planning Staff is hoping the Council and Planning Commission will consider the merits of proposed updates to
the Night Sky Ordinance. Issues of particular interest that the Commission might consider for topics of discussion
are:

            o   This draft has been shared with partners internal and external. There may be some suggestions
                that are made before our next meeting.
            o   Graphics are being developed and coming along well.
            o   Are we ready for public feedback on the Ordinance Update before suggesting adoption?



                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
At this point, staff has not received any feedback from the public regarding the Night Sky Ordinance update.



                                   REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
A review by Emigration Canyon’s attorney and the MSD’s land use attorneys will be completed prior to the
adoption of the comprehensive code updates.

Heidi Hoven of the Audubon Society as well as Lisa Stoner of Utah State University Extension services have been
shared a copy of this draft. We are awaiting any comment.
Other agencies will review the code as needed based on the content.




                                    PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Previous draft plans have relied heavily on the similar ordinances drafted and adopted in: Moab, Torrey, Eagle
Mountain, and Helper City, Utah, as well as several guidelines produced by the International Dark Sky Org. Staff
also received guidance and advice from Dark Sky experts with the planning community here in Northern Utah.
The current version of the Ordinance has been adjusted to reflect an approach to total allowable light use
calculations more like that utilized Fort Collins and Boulder, Colorado municipal code. These cities were
recommended by the Reviewing Agencies experts referred to previously. These changes reflect, in the opinion of
the staff, an improvement to the previous “net acre” calculation method employed in the first draft.



                             PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission review
and provide feedback on proposed Amendments to the Night Sky Ordinance.




                      DOCUMENT COMMENT AND RESPONSE HISTORY

             - Draft Document Color Legend -
Response from MSD Staff

Comment on this draft has responded to those comments made during the previous working session. Particular
subjects of interest were covered in the Project Description.
Emigration Canyon Metro Township

DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING



19.73.110 – Purpose.
A. The purposes of this chapter are to:
    1. Encourage lighting practices that minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and sky glow to
       curtail the night sky's visual environment's degradation.
    2. Encourage lighting practices that promote energy conservation.
    3. Maintain nighttime safety, utility, and security and prevent unnecessary or inappropriate
       outdoor lighting and lighting nuisances on properties.
    4. Prevent unnecessary or inappropriate outdoor lighting and lighting nuisances on properties.
    5. Maintain the rural atmosphere and community character of the Metro Township.
    6. Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal wildlife.



19.73.111 - Scope and Applicability.
A. Compliance.
    1. Lighting installed and/or replaced after the effective date hereof in all zones in the Metro
       Township shall conform to the requirements established by this Chapter.
B. Nonconforming Uses.
    1. Lighting that does not meet the requirements of this Chapter and is not exempt from the
       requirements of this chapter shall be considered a nonconforming use.
C. Modifications.
    1. Compliance through the Building Permit Process: The Metro Township requires that lighting be
       brought into compliance through the building permit process;
            i. If modifications are made to any structure which requires the removal of a
                nonconforming luminaire, the luminaire shall be replaced or modified to bring it into
                compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
            ii. If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of 50% or more of the
                property value at the time of submittal. A lighting plan for the property shall be
                submitted subject to the conditions outlined in Section 19.73.117 - Application and
                Review Procedures.
    2. In the event a nonconforming luminaire is replaced, destroyed, damaged, or modified by fifty
       percent (50%) or more, the replacement shall comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
D. Conflicts.
    1. In the event any federal, state, or county statute or regulation conflicts with any provision of this
       Chapter, the most restrictive statute, regulation, or provision shall govern unless otherwise
       required by law. In the event any provision of the Metro Township’s other ordinances conflicts
       with the provisions of this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter shall govern.
19.73.112 - Conditions and Standards.
A. Minimum Necessary.
    1. Outdoor (exterior) lighting shall be the minimum necessary to provide for safety and
       functionality. The lowest-lumen light source necessary for a lighting application shall be used.
       a. All lighting shall be purpose-driven:
            i. Useful: All light used shall have a clear purpose.
            ii. Targeted: Light shall be directed only to where needed.
            iii. Low Light Levels: Light shall be no brighter than necessary.
            iv. Controlled: Light shall be used only when it is useful.
            v. Color: Where possible, warmer color lights shall be used.
B. Allowable Applications.
    1. Outdoor lighting in compliance with the Chapter shall only be allowed in the following
       applications:
       a. To illuminate the entrances to buildings (including garage entrances).
       b. To illuminate pathways and walkways.
       c. To illuminate parking areas and parking area access lanes.
       d. To illuminate gathering areas, such as patios, pool and hot tub areas, dining areas, and
            recreation areas.
       e. For security purposes, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
                 minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
            ii. The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct illumination falls outside the
                 property boundaries where the security lighting is placed.
            iii. Sensors are adjusted to meet site conditions to avoid repetitive activation by wildlife,
                 wind, and/or other disturbances.
       f. To illuminate signage.
       g. For Accent Lighting, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. All accent lighting is mounted on and illuminating only building facades visible from an
                 adjacent public right of way.
            ii. The accent lighting is sufficiently shielded such that the light source is not visible beyond
                 the property boundaries.
            iii. The accent lighting is directed such that all light shines on the building facade, not on
                 the adjacent property or the night sky.
            iv. The accent lighting is not used to illuminate landscape, landscape elements, statues, or
                 other similar features.
       h. To illuminate outdoor water features, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. The lighting is angled below the horizontal plane.
            ii. The lighting is placed underneath or behind the water such that the water diffuses the
                 light from all points where the light is visible.
       i. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting utilized for holidays, special events, or otherwise
            shall be extinguished after 10:00 pm, and shall not exceed the allowed footcandle limit for
            the property. Temporary lighting shall be limited to the following:
            i. The period of time between Thanksgiving Day and New Day Year’s Eve each calendar
                 year; and,
            ii. Periods of time not exceeding 14 days per calendar month for other holidays and special
                events.

C. Total Light Output.
   1. Commercial Properties and Religious Institutions - The total amount of outdoor lighting,
       whether shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed 2.5 footcandles per square foot of hardscape
   2. Multi-Family Residential Properties - The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether shielded or
       unshielded, shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles per square foot of hardscape.
   3. Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties - The total amount of outdoor
       lighting, whether shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed 1.0 footcandles per square foot of
       hardscape.
       a. Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties used for overnight
            accommodations or commercial uses shall comply with Single-Family Residential standards
            for total light output.
   4. For all Properties – Light output from indoor and outdoor sources shall not exceed 0.1
       footcandles at the property line.
D. Maximum Color Temperature of All Outdoor Lighting Fixtures.
   1. The correlated color temperature of any outdoor lighting fixture shall not exceed three
       thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
E. Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements.
   1. Unless specifically exempted by this Chapter, all outdoor lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures
       that are designed and constructed so that:
       a. No light is emitted and/or reflected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
       b. Lighting is placed and/or directed at a location, angle, and/or height to prevent direct
            illumination outside the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.
       c. When a light manufacturer provides a BUG rating, the uplight rating (U) shall equal zero (0).
   2. Characteristics:
       a. To qualify as a fully shielded fixture, the top and sides of a light fixture shall be made of
            completely opaque material, such that light only escapes through the bottom of the fixture.
            Fixtures with translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not
            qualify as fully shielded. Any glass or diffuser on the bottom of the fixture must be flush with
            the fixture (no drop lenses) and must not reflect light that breaks the horizontal plane
            established at the top of the fixture. Merely placing a light fixture under an eave, canopy,
            patio cover or other similar cover does not qualify the fixture as being fully shielded.
F. Exemptions To Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements. All lighting identified in this Section shall be
   included in calculating the total footcandle output allowed unless otherwise noted and as set forth
   in Section 19.73.112. C.
   1. Spotlights:
       a. Spotlights controlled by motion sensors having a light output of less than one thousand
            (1000) lumens per lamp are exempt from the fully shielded requirement, provided:
            i. The fixture is a spotlight or other type of directed light that shall be directed at a forty-
                 five-degree (45°) angle or less, where the zero (0) angle is pointing straight down, and
                 (a) The fixture must not be placed in such a manner that results in light trespass, and
                 (b) The lighting elements controlled by motion sensors shall not be triggered by
                     movement or activity located off the property on which it is located.
            ii. The fixture is hooded or shielded to the extent necessary to prevent glare on adjacent
                 properties or roadways.
            iii. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
                 minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
   2. Pathway Lights:
       a. Pathway lights less than eighteen inches (18") in height are exempt from the fully shielded
            fixture requirement if:
            i. The total light emitted by all pathway light fixtures as measured along the centerline of
                 the pathway lighted does not exceed 1.0 footcandles; and
            ii. The lights have opaque caps that direct light below the horizontal plane.
   3. Temporary Exterior or Decorative Lighting:
       a. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting, provided that individual lamps do not exceed 70
            lumens, the total output of temporary lighting does not cause the property to exceed total
            allowable footcandle levels detailed in this Chapter, and the lighting does not cause light
            intrusion nor interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
   4. Law Enforcement Lighting Traffic Control Signals and Traffic Safety Devices:
       a. Traffic control signals, traffic safety devices, and law enforcement lighting, used by a
            governing agency, is exempt from and not governed by the provisions of this Chapter
   5. Temporary Emergency Lighting:
       a. Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement or government agencies, or at
            their direction, is exempt from and not governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   6. Pool Lighting
       a. Underwater lighting fixtures providing illumination to all underwater areas of the pool.
G. Restrictions On Total Amount of Unshielded Lighting.
   1. Outdoor lighting that is exempt from the shielding requirement in this Chapter shall not
       contribute more than the equivalent of:
       a. 0.25 footcandles per square foot of hardscape for commercial properties.
       b. 0.2 footcandles per total square foot of hardscape for multi-family properties.
       c. 0.1 footcandles per square foot of hardscape for residential properties.
   2. All lighting fixtures shall be fully shielded when installed within twenty-five (25) feet of adjacent
       residential property lines.



19.73.113 – Night Lighting Limitations.
A. Commercial Establishments and Religious Institutions.
    1. Shall turn off all outdoor lighting, except those listed below, within one hour after closing.
       a. Lighting to illuminate the entrance(s).
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of guests.
B. Recreational Lighting (Residential and Commercial).
    1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except to
       conclude a community-approved event that is underway.
C. Multi-Family Residential Property Lighting.
   1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except those
       listed below:
       a. Lighting to illuminate entrances.
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of residents or guests.
       c. Outdoor gathering and recreational spaces, when in use.
D. Single-Family Residential Property Lighting.
   1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except those
       listed below:
       a. Lighting to illuminate entrances.
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of residents or guests.
       c. Outdoor gathering and recreational spaces, when in use.



19.73.114 - Specialized Outdoor Lighting.
A. Roadway/Streetlights.
    1. Roadways and streetlights are prohibited unless recommended by the County Engineer or
       required by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). When deemed necessary,
       streetlights shall utilize lamp types that are fully shielded luminaires that minimize sky glow,
       light trespass, and other unintended impacts of artificial lighting. All street lights shall utilize the
       lowest light levels accepted by the County Engineer and/or UDOT.
B. Parking Lots.
    1. Spot or flood lighting of parking lots from a building or other structure is prohibited.
    2. The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots in multi-family residential or
       commercial zones shall not exceed fourteen feet (14'). All post-mounted parking lot lights shall
       be set back from property lines a distance equal to two and one-half (2.5) times the height of
       the pole unless an internal or external shield prevents the fixture from being visible from
       outside the property boundaries.
    3. The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots in residential zones shall not
       exceed six feet (6').
    4. All parking lot lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures.
    5. Internal or external shields shall prevent the light source from being visible from outside the
       relevant parking lot.
C. Recreational Lighting.
    1. The Director or designee shall review all requests for new recreational lighting fixtures for fields
       or courts only after finding:
       a. The recreational lighting has provisions for minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using
            louvers, hoods, or shielding.
       b. The recreational lighting does not exceed illumination levels for class IV sports lighting set by
            the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
       c. The recreational lighting only illuminates the playing field or court area and is shielded to
            prevent illumination from falling outside of those areas.
       d. The light source for the recreational light is not visible from adjacent properties.
D. Pole-mounted recreational lighting.
   1. Pole-mounted recreational lighting shall be limited to eighteen feet (18') in height. Pole-
       mounted recreational lighting must be set at a distance equal to or greater than the height of
       the pole installed from any adjacent property line.
   2. The lighting for non-playing field and non-court areas shall conform to all provisions of this
       Chapter.
E. Amphitheater Lighting.
   1. Outdoor amphitheaters may use illumination to light the performance area of the amphitheater
       and provide public safety. The following standards apply to all amphitheater lighting:
       a. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area must be either directed spotlighting or
           fully shielded lighting. If directed spotlighting, the light source must be located and designed
           such that it is not visible beyond the property boundaries.
       b. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area may only be turned on during
           performances or rehearsals.
       c. Lighting used to illuminate the seating areas, pathways, and other areas of the amphitheater
           must meet all standards of this Chapter.
F. Signs.
   1. Where other municipal ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, this
       Chapter shall apply and take precedence.
   2. Signs may be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted internally, or backlit. All sign lighting must be
       designed, directed, and shielded in such a manner that the light source is not visible beyond the
       property boundaries where the sign is located. Lighting for signs must be directed such that only
       the sign’s face is illuminated.
   3. Lighting for signs must utilize stationary and constant lighting.
   4. All signage elements must be stationary.
   5. Standards for Externally Illuminated Signs:
       a. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be aimed and shielded so that light is directed
           only onto the sign face and does not intrude onto adjacent streets, roads, or properties or
           into the night sky.
       b. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be mounted at the top of the sign (or within
           two (2) feet of the top of a building-mounted sign).
   6. Standards for Internally Illuminated Signs
       a. Lighting Is Visible on Both Sides of the Sign:
           i. Only sign copy areas and logos may be illuminated on an internally illuminated sign.
           ii. Internally illuminated signs shall use semi-opaque materials for sign copy such that the
                light emanating from the sign is diffused. Transparent or clear materials are not allowed
                for sign copy. Non-copy portions of the sign (e.g., background and graphics) shall be
                made of completely opaque material.
   7. Standards for Backlit Signs
       a. Only One Side of Sign Is Lit:
           i. Backlit signs shall be designed such that the light source is not visible.
           ii. Backlit signs shall be designed such that harsh, direct illumination does not emanate out
                of the sign. Rather, the backlighting shall only allow indirect illumination to emanate
                from the sign. For example, signs that create a "halo" effect around sign copy are
                allowed.
           iii. Backlit signs shall use low lumen light sources.
    8. Illuminated Window Signage:
       a. Illuminated window signs positioned to be primarily visible outside all structures are allowed
           only if there are no more than two (2) signs per space. Each sign shall measure less than
           three and one-half (31/2) square feet in area.



19.73.115 - Prohibited Lighting.
A. Accent Lighting that is directed upward above the horizontal plane to illuminate building structures,
    landscape, landscape features, statues or similar features, vegetation, or for any other use.
B. Flashing, blinking, intermittent, or other lights that move or give the impression of movement.
C. Floodlights or Spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of lighting parking lots.
D. Searchlights, laser source lights, or any similar high intensity light.
E. In the case of Residential Properties, no lighting fixture shall be mounted on a structure at an
    elevation of more than 14 ft. above the elevation identified for the lowest elevation entrance to the
    corresponding side of the structure, each structure having an identified front, two sides, and a rear.
    1. For structures having sides with no entrance present. The height limitation established by the
        lowest base floor entrance elevation on any side of the structure shall control.
        a. Wall-mounted lighting may be utilized for patios and decks located above the primary
            entrance elevation, provided that the light source shall not be visible outside the property
            boundary.
F. Light fixture accessories such as diffusers, shields, cut-outs, etc., that direct light above the
    horizontal plane, either directly or by glare.

19.73.116 – Towers.
A. All monopole, antenna, tower, or support facility lighting not required by the Federal Aviation
    Administration (FAA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Municipal Fire and Police, or
    radio towers is prohibited.
B. When lighting is required by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police, such lighting shall not
    exceed the minimum requirements of those agencies. Collision markers should have a dual mode for
    day and night to minimize impact on the night sky and migrating birds.
C. All other lighting used on the property not regulated by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police
    shall conform to this Chapter.

19.73.117 - Application and Review Procedures.
A. Where appropriate, the Metro Township will provide information to homeowners on best practice
    application of the lighting principles set forth in this Chapter.
B. Lighting Plan Required.
    1. In any application for a sign permit, building permit, conditional use permit, subdivision,
       design/development review, and any other development application within any zoning district,
       including all municipal projects, requires the applicant to, as part of the application process,
       submit sufficient information to enable the Director or Designee to determine whether
       proposed lighting complies with this Chapter. All applications may be subject to review and
      action by the Planning Commission at the discretion of the Director or Designee. All applications
      shall include a Lighting Plan meeting the requirements set forth herein.
   2. Lighting Plans shall include the following:
      a. Site Plans or drawings indicating the proposed location of outdoor lighting fixtures, both
           proposed and any already existing on site. Including:
           i. height of lighting fixtures on the premises, and
           ii. type of illumination devices, lamps, supports, shielding and reflectors used and,
           iii. installation and electrical details,
      b. A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp, support, and shield, both proposed
           and existing. The description shall include, but is not limited to, the manufacturer’s catalog
           cuts and illustrations (including sections where required); lamp types, wattages, initial
           lumen outputs, and shielding mechanisms. A B.U.G. rating must be included if supplied for
           each luminaire or fixture.
      c. A table showing the total number of proposed exterior lights, by fixture type, lumens, and
           lamp type, Including a Manufacture Cut Sheet whenever possible.
      d. The Lighting Plan must demonstrate that no more than the allotted footcandle of light shall
           be utilized on the property or properties, as specified in section 19.73.112 - Conditions and
           Standards. Article C. Total Light Output.
      e. Such other information that the Director or Designee may determine is necessary to ensure
           compliance with this Chapter.
C. Approval Procedure.
   1. If the Director or Designee determines that any proposed lighting described in a lighting plan
      does not comply with this Chapter, the plan shall not be approved, and the specific permit
      applied for shall not be issued.



19.73.118 - Appeals, Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties.
A. Appeal for Exemption.
    1. The Land Use Hearing Officer may approve lighting that does not comply with this Chapter if
       need is established. An applicant requesting that such lighting be approved must provide proof
       of requirements of property insurance or findings of competent research demonstrating a need
       for the requested lighting. The Land Use Hearing Officer may attach other conditions to the
       approval of such lighting that will make the lighting comply with the spirit of this Chapter.
B. Violations.
    1. The following constitute violations of this chapter:
       a. Failing to meet light curfew standards as outlined in section 19.73.113 of this ordinance
            after the effective date of this Chapter.
       b. The installation, maintenance, or operation of any lighting fixture not in compliance with the
            provisions of this Chapter if such fixture is installed after the effective date of this Chapter.
       c. The alteration of outdoor lighting fixtures after the approval of a lighting plan by the
            director or designee, when such alteration does not conform to the provisions of this
            chapter.
       d. Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed, operated, maintained, or
            altered in violation of this Chapter.
        e. Amortization: All exterior lighting fixtures that do not conform to the requirements of this
           Chapter shall be brought into conformance no later than 5 years from the effective date of
           this Chapter. The Metro Township encourages property owners to voluntarily bring
           nonconforming lighting into compliance with this chapter.

C. Enforcement.
   1. If, after investigation, the Director or Designee finds that any provision of this Chapter is being
       violated, the Director or Designee shall give notice by hand delivery or by certified mail, return
       receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or occupant of such premises, demanding
       that the violation be abated within 30 days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing
       of the notice. Planning and Development Services staff shall be available to assist in working
       with the violator to correct said violation. If the violation is not abated within the 30-day period,
       the Director or Designee or designee may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or
       equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any violations of this Chapter and to collect penalties for
       such violations.
   2. Hillsides, Ridgelines, and Special Cases
       a. In certain cases (such as but not limited to, properties on or near ridgelines or hillsides), the
           Director or Designee may require that certain steps be implemented to mitigate the effects
           of light pollution, glare, light trespass, sky glow, and to curtail the degradation of the night
           sky visual environment.
           i. Any light source that is directly visible from outside the property boundaries on which
                the light source is located, the property owner shall be required to demonstrate a good
                faith effort to redirect, shield, and/or diffuse the light source to address any unintended
                effect on the quality of night sky conditions within the municipality. This provision does
                not apply to existing lighting during which time it is subject to the amortization period
                identified in this Chapter.
D. Penalties.
   1. Penalties. A violation of this Chapter, or any provision thereof, shall be punishable by a civil
       penalty of $50.00 per day, and each day of violation after the expiration of the 30-day
       abatement period set forth in Section 19.73.118.C.1 shall constitute a separate offense for the
       purpose of calculating the civil penalty.



19.73.119 – Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words, phrases, and terms used herein shall have the meanings
assigned to them by this section:

A-M
Accent Lighting: Lighting of building surfaces, landscape features, statues, and similar items for the
purpose of decoration or ornamentation; or lighting that does not contribute to the safety or security of
residents, guests, employees, or customers on a property.

Adaptive Controls: Devices such as motion sensors, timers, and dimmers used in concert with outdoor
lighting equipment to vary the intensity or duration of the operation of lighting.
Ambient light: The general overall level of lighting in an area.

Backlight: All the light emanating behind a luminaire.

Ballast: A device used with a discharge lamp to obtain the necessary voltage, current, and/or waveform
for starting and operating the lamp.

Basement: means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. A
walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

Brightness: Strength of the sensation that results from viewing surfaces from which the light comes to
the eye.

B.U.G. Rating: A BUG Rating stands for backlight, uplight, and glare. Backlight (B) is the light directed
behind the fixture, uplight (U) is any light directed upward above the horizontal plane of the luminaire,
and glare (G) is the amount of light emitted from the luminaire at high angles.




                                      Figure XX: Explanation of BUG Ratings

Bulb or lamp: The source of electric light. To be distinguished from the whole assembly (see luminaire).
Lamp often is used to denote the bulb and its housing.

Candela (cd): Unit of luminous intensity. One candela is one lumen per steradian. Formerly called the
candle.




                                           Figure XX: Candela Example

Commercial Property: Any parcel within the C-2 Zone, and/or any parcel with a building containing 10 or
more residential units.

Constant Lighting. Lighting that stays on all the time, as opposed to flashing, blinking, strobes or
speedlights that emit a bright burst of light when triggered.
Correlated Color Temperature (CCT): A specification of the color appearance of the light emitted by a
lamp, relating its color to the color of light from a reference source when heated to a particular
temperature, measured in degrees kelvin (K).




                                     Figure XX: Correlated Color Temperature

Cut-off angle, of a luminaire: The angle, measured up from the nadir (i.e. straight down), between the
vertical axis and the first line of sight at which the bulb or lamp is not visible.

Diffuser: A device used to distribute light from a source.

Dimmer: A device for varying the brightness of an electric light.

Direct Illumination: Illumination resulting from light emitted directly from a lamp, luminary, or reflector.
This does not include light reflected from other surfaces, such as the ground or building faces.

Dusk: The darker part of twilight especially at night. Timetables identifying specific hours for dusk on any
given day are located at: https://www.gaisma.com/en/location/salt-lake-city-utah.html.

Efficiency: A measure of the effective or useful output of a system compared to the input of the system.

Energy (radiant energy): Unit is erg, or joule, or kWh.

Facade lighting: The illumination of the exterior of a building. (see also Accent Lighting)

Fixture (light fixture): The assembly that holds the lamp in a lighting system. It includes the elements
designed to give light output control, such as a reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing,
and the attachment parts.

Fixture Lumens: A light fixture’s light output after processing of emitted light by optics in that fixture.

Fixture Watts: The total power consumed by a fixture. This includes the power consumed by the
lamp(s) and ballast(s).
                                 Figure XX: Watts to Lumens Relationship Example

Floodlight: A fixture designed to “flood” a well-defined area with light.

Footcandle: A footcandle is a measurement of the amount of light that hits an area on the ground or
any other surface. A footcandle is a unit of measurement used to measure the intensity of light. It can be
measured by a foot-candle meter, which has a calibrated aperture of one square foot.




                                        Figure XX: Footcandle Description




Full-cutoff fixture: An IES definition; “Zero intensity at or above horizontal (90° above nadir) and limited
to a value not exceeding 10% of lamp lumens at or above 80°”.

Fully Shielded Fixture: An outdoor luminaire constructed and mounted so that the installed fixture
emits no light above the horizontal plane. Surrounding structures, like canopies, cannot be considered
when determining if the fixture is fully shielded.
Figure XX: Examples of Acceptable and Unacceptable Light Fixtures
Glare: the visual sensation caused by excessive brightness, and which causes annoyance, discomfort, or
a loss in visual performance or visibility.




                                           Figure XX: Unwanted Glare

Hardscape: Any non-living horizontal site element, including but not limited to patios, decks, walkways,
sidewalks, driveways, and steps.

House-side Shield: Opaque material applied to a fixture to block the light from illuminating a residence
or other structure being protected from light trespass.

Illuminance: Density of luminous flux incident on a surface. Illuminance can be measured using
footcandle or lux.

Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA): The professional society of lighting
engineers, including those from manufacturing companies, and others professionally involved in
lighting.

Incandescent lamp: a lamp (fixture) in which light is produced by a filament heated to a high
temperature by electric current.

Indoor Lighting: Any lamp, pendant, or fixture used to illuminate the interior of any structure.

Intensity: The degree or amount of energy or light.

Internally Illuminated: As it relates to signs, any sign which has a light source entirely enclosed within
the sign and not directly visible.
International Dark-Sky Association (IDA, Inc.): A non-profit organization whose goals are to build
awareness of the value of dark skies, and of the need for quality outdoor lighting.

kWh: Kilowatt-hour: A unit of energy equal to the work done by one kilowatt (1000 watts) of power
acting for one hour.

Lamp: A generic term for a manufactured source created to produce optical radiation, meaning
ultraviolet radiation (UV), visible light (VIS), and infrared radiation (IR).

Lamp Life: The average lifespan for a specific type of lamp. Half of the lamps will perform longer than
the average; the others will fail before the average.

LED: Stands for light emitting diode. LED lighting products produce light up to 90% more efficiently than
incandescent light bulbs.

Light Pollution: Brightening of the night sky caused by man-made sources, which has a disruptive effect
on natural cycles and inhibits the observation of stars and planets.




                            Figure XX: Gradient of Light Pollution in the Form of Sky Glow

Light Source: The part of a lighting fixture that produces light, e.g. the bulb, lamp, or chips on board.

Light Spill: Unwanted spillage of light onto adjacent areas including residential properties and ecological
sites.
Light Trespass: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed. See also: Light Spill. Obtrusive light.




                              Figure XX: Light trespass Compared to Adequate Shielding

Lighting Controls: Devices used for either turning lights on and off or for dimming.

Photocells Sensors that turn lights on and off in response to natural light levels. Some advanced modes
can slowly dim or increase the lighting. See also: Adaptive Controls.

Low-Pressure Sodium (LPS) lamp: A discharge lamp where the light is produced by radiation from
sodium vapor at a relatively low partial pressure (about 0.001 torr). LPS is a “tube source”. It is
monochromatic light.

Lumen: A unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted by a uniform point source of one candle
intensity. Lumens refers to the amount of light emitted by a bulb (a bulb with higher lumens outputs
brighter light).




                                             Figure XX: Lumen Example
                             Figure XX: Comparison of Bulbs with Light Output and Cost

    https://georgebrazilplumbingelectrical.com/how-to-choose-the-best-light-bulb-for-your-home/

Luminaire: A complete lighting unit that typically includes components such as a fixture housing,
ballasts, reflector, translucent shield or diffuser, and a lamp or lamps.




                             Figure XX: Comparison of Bulbs with Light Output and Cost

Luminance: the intensity of light emitted from a surface per unit area in a given direction. Units:
candelas per unit area.
Lux: (symbol: lx) is the unit of illuminance or luminous flux per unit area.




                                              Figure XX: Lux Example

Manufacturer’s Catalog Cuts: A publication or other printed material of a lamp or lighting manufacturer
offering visual and technical information about a lighting fixture or lamp.

Mounting height: The height of the fixture or lamp above the ground plane for pole mounted lamps.
The height of the fixture above the elevation identified for the lowest elevation entrance to the
corresponding side of the structure, each structure having an identified front, two sides, and a rear.

Multi-Family Residential Property: Any parcel having a building containing three to ten dwelling units.

N-Z
Optic: The components of a luminaire such as reflectors, refractors, and protectors which make up its
light emitting section.

Outdoor Light Fixture (Outdoor Lighting): An outdoor, electric, or solar powered, illuminating lamp or
similar device used for lighting structures, parking lots, pathways, service canopies, recreational areas,
signs, or other similar outdoor uses. These lighting fixtures may be attached to a building, parking
structure, or sign, or may stand on their own.

Partially Shielded Light Fixture: An outdoor light fixture
constructed and mounted so that the installed fixture emits
most of its light below the horizontal plane. Light emitted
at or above the horizontal plane (sideways or upwards)
shall arise solely from incidental decorative elements or
strongly colored or diffusing materials, such as colored
glass or plastic. Fixtures using spot or flood lamps are
considered partially shielded if the lamps are aimed no
higher than forty-five (45) degrees above the vertical plane
beneath the fixture.
                                 Figure 1: Unshielded versus Shielded Light Fixtures

Pathway Lights: A luminaire, or collection of luminaires, less than eighteen inches (18") in height, lining
one or both sides of an outdoor path or walkway that provides illumination to guide persons along the
outdoor path or walkway.

Photometry: The quantitative measurement of light level and distribution.
Photocell: An electronic device that changes the light output of a luminaire dynamically in response to
the ambient light level around the luminaire.

Pool Lighting: Underwater lighting fixtures provide illumination to all underwater areas of a pool.

Recreational Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate sports fields, ball courts, playgrounds, or similar
outdoor recreational facilities.

Reflector: An optic that achieves control of light by means of reflection (using mirrors).

Refractor: An optic that achieves control of light by means of refraction (using lenses).

Religious Institutions: Property containing a Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other
religious or spiritually-oriented structure(s), including any accessory buildings and uses, where persons
regularly assemble for religious or spiritual purposes and related social events and which building, with
accessory buildings and uses, is maintained, and controlled by a religious body organized to hold
religious ceremonies and purposes.

Security Lights: Lighting designed to illuminate a property or grounds for the purpose of visual security.

Shielding: An opaque material that blocks the transmission of light.

Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties: Any parcel within the FR-0.5, FR-1,
FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, and FR-20 zones having a building containing one or two dwelling units.

Skyglow: The brightening of the nighttime sky resulting from the scattering and reflection of artificial
light by moisture and dust particles in the atmosphere. Skyglow is caused by light directed or reflected
upwards or sideways and reduces one’s ability to view the nighttime sky (Figure 5).

Spotlight: A fixture or lamp designed to light a small area very brightly. See the definition of Floodlight.

Stationary Lighting. Lights that are intended to stay in one position

Stray light: Emitted light that falls away from the area where it is needed or wanted. Light trespass.

Task Lighting: Task lighting is used to provide direct light for specific activities without illuminating the
entire area.

Tower: Any monopole, antenna or the like that exceeds eighteen feet (18’) in height.
Unshielded Lighting Fixture: A fixture that allows light to be emitted above the horizontal plane, either
directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture or reflector.




                  Figure XX: Unshielded, Capped, Partially Shielded, and Fully Shielded Fixtures

Vertical Illuminance: The amount of light falling on a vertical surface or plane such as the night sky.

Visibility: The distance one can see as determined by light and weather conditions.

Wallpack: A luminaire, typically affixed to the side of a structure, used for area lighting.
       8/9. City/Inner City Sky                                    7. City/Suburbia Transition                         6. Bright Suburban Sky                                               5. Suburban Sky                           4. Suburban/Rural Transition                                         3. Rural Sky                            2. Dark-Sky Site                                    1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




What are Dark Skies?                                                                                                                                                    Why do Dark Skies Matter?                                                                                                                                                   Dark Sky Friendly?
Night Sky Environment                                                                                               Human Health                                                 Ecological Health                                              Waste                                                     Safety                                                                                            Take the Quiz
The cycles of light and dark, created by celestial bodies outside of the earth’s atmosphere                      Humans Need The Natural                                            Artificial Lights Disrupt                     Light Pollution Costs Money                              Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Do you know if your home lighting is community and night sky friendly?
directed cycles of activity and growth for all living things on earth until the proliferation of                    Day/Night Cycle                                                        Ecosystems                                And Wastes Resources                                 Lighting up the nighttime environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Follow the steps below to find out. Most people will find that a few simple
lighting technologies. Today a view from space of earth’s surface at night reveals a matrix of                Our biological clocks help keep us healthy.                     Plants and animals depend on Earth’s              Poorly designed outdoor lighting wastes                   does not necessarily improve safety or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          security. This may seem contradictory, but      changes can lead to lighting that is both beautiful and functional, without
lights, stretching from metropolis to metropolis illuminating those areas most influenced                     When our master clock is out of sync with                       daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-     energy by not being shielded, emitting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          there is no clear scientific evidence that                                         contributing to excessive light pollution.
by humanity. Understanding your role in the Night Sky Environment can help you make                           the day/night cycle, it’s called circadian                      sustaining behaviors such as reproduction,        more light than necessary or shining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          increased outdoor lighting deters crime                                                                    Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
choices that reduce the impact lighting is having on you and your community.                                  disruption. Altering or interrupting our                        nourishment, sleep and protection from            when and where it’s not needed. Wasting                                                                                                                                           International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                              normal circadian rhythm can put us at risk                      predators. Scientific evidence suggests           energy in this way has huge economic and                              and increases safety.

Our Impact                                                                                                     for physiological and behavioral impacts.                      that artificial light at night has negative
                                                                                                                                                                              and deadly effects on many living things,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      environmental consequences.

Many of us have experienced this scenario: a neighbor installs a new light on their property.
It’s an unshielded fixture that casts a bright light that spills onto your property and perhaps
                                                                                                                                                                              including amphibians, birds, mammals,
                                                                                                                                                                                       invertebrates, and plants.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Review YOUR Ordinance
even inside your home. Frustrating right?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Emigration Canyon Metro Township
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
Have you considered that you might be that neighbor in someone else’s scenario? Steep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
slopes in Emigration Canyon can create scenarios in which light sources can directly effect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     International Dark Sky Association

homes at great distances. The four topics below; Skyglow
                                                 Skyglow, Light Pollution, Light Trespass,
and Glare, can help you better understand the potential impacts of uncontrolled light.


                                          Skyglow
Skyglow occurs when ambient manmade light floods the sky creating a glow that can
be almost as bright as dawn or dusk. The accumulated light washes the night sky of its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Develop YOUR Plan
luminosity and brilliance, forcing urban and suburban dwellers who wish to enjoy a view of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Follow the steps below and utilize the Emigration Canyon Dark Skies Do’s and Dont’s
the Milky Way Galaxy or constellations to make a pilgrimage to areas where light pollution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   guide to develop a Dark Sky Adapted Lighting Plan for your Property!
                            does not exist or is better controlled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1. Draw a simple sketch of your property
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Differentiate the Hardscape Areas From the Softscape Areas
 Communities and areas can be rated as to the quality of their Night Sky Environment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Identify all the places you would like to light, and when you would like to light them.
  from 9 to 1 based on the levels of Skyglow effecting their night sky environment.                               Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk                         Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife                 Light Pollution Costs Money and                          Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety                                        4. Mark on your plan where you will place a light source.
                                                                                                                        International Dark Sky Association                              International Dark Sky Association                     Wastes Resources                                    International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5. Create a list of the luminairs you will use, and identify on the plan which luminairs will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         International Dark Sky Association
                Where would you rate your community on the scale below?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  be used at each light source.




                                                                                                                                           Dark Skies Dont’s Dark Sky Dos
Light Pollution                                                                     Lighting source visible
                                                                                                                                                                       Leave Lights on All Night!                             Turn Lights off!                                                                                                                                                       Useful
Light pollution is a side effect of industrial civilization. Its
                                                                                     outside the property
                                                                                                                                               If you are not using the area, please don’t light it lit!                      If you are not using the area, please don’t leave it lit!                                                                                   Use light only if it is needed
sources include building exterior and interior lighting,
advertising, commercial properties, offices, factories,                                                                                           Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an                         Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an easy                                                                          All light should have a clear purpose. Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       how the use of light will impact the area,
streetlights, and illuminated sporting venues.                                                                                                      easy and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!                            and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!                                                                                                     including wildlife and their habitats..

The fact is that much outdoor lighting used
at night is inefficient, overly bright, poorly

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Targeted
targeted, improperly shielded, and, in
many cases, completely unnecessary.

                                                                                                                                                                                              Light Trespass                                                                                         Low Level
This light, and the electricity used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Direct light so it falls only where it is needed
to create it, is being wasted by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Use shielding and careful aiming to target the direction of
spilling it into the sky, rather                                                                                                                      Light trespassing is when light from one house or property is                                            Light should be no brighter than necessary                                           the light beam so that it points downward and does not
than focusing it on to                                                                                                                                  improperly controlled and crosses boundaries. Trespassing                                              Use the lowest light level required. Be mindful of surface                                                    spill beyond where it is needed.
the actual objects                                                                                                                                    light interferes with the darkness of other properties or even                                           conditions, as some surfaces may reflect more light into
and areas that                                                                                                                                                       brightens the inside of another persons home.                                                                           the night sky than intended.
people        want
illuminated.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                                                                                                                          affecting a
                                                                                                                                                                                 residence at lower elevation


  Consistently Illuminated
     Spotlight Zones                                                                                                           Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                Over-lit areas producing                                    at the
                                                                                    Light Pollution                                    Property Line




Glare                                                                                                                                      Upward
Glare caused by light pollutions is a lot like the glare                                                                               reflected light
that is created by the sun. A common cause of glare
are street lights and car headlights, which can impact                                                                                                                                                                                Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       affecting Public Space
of a person’s ability to see clearly in the dark after the                                                                                                                        Glare Zones
car has passed. This can lessen a persons nighttime
depth perception and their ability to discern
between different shadows in the dark.

                                                                                                                     Useful Light
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Controlled
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Direct Glare
                                                                       Glare Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Use light only when it is needed                                          Use warmer color lights where possible
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Use controls such as timers or motion detectors to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Limit the amount of shorter wavelength (blue-violet)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ensure that light is available when it is needed, dimmed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           light to the least amount needed.
                                                                                                                                                             Area to be lit                                                                                              when possible, and turned off when not needed.
  Develop your
                                  1. Sketch your Property’s                                                                             2. Differentiate the                                                                             3. Identify areas you would                                                                             4. Mark on your plan
  Night                           Landscape Plan                                                                                        Hardscape Areas From the                                                                         like to light, and when you                                                                             where you will place
                                                                                                                                        Softscape Areas                                                                                  might need them lit                                                                                     each light source type
  Lighting
                                                                                     Measure distances and areas in Google Earth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Find Dark Sky Friendly Lighting
                                                                                                                Google Earth Help                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   International Dark Sky Association




  Plan                                                             Use what you have!
                                                                   Do you already have a landscape plan?
                                                                                                                                                                        Why differentiate?
                                                                                                                                                                        We typically have very different expectations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Think Safety. Think Fun.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Remember the 5 guiding principles: Useful,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lighting Choice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X Foot candles Allowed / Sq. Ft. Hardscape = Total




  in 5
                                                                   What you are looking for is a calculation of the square                                              about how we light hard and softscape areas.                                                         Targeted, Low Levels, Controlled, & Color                                                                Lumen
                                                                   footage (sq. ft.) of the areas you would like to light.                                              By prioritizing hardscape first, you will ensure you are                                             Prioritize areas that will be most heavily traveled. Plan                                                Use this simple formula to curate a lighting plan that
                                                                                                                                                                        being targeted and useful with your lighting choices.                                                for activities that you would like to take place on your                                                 meets the standards adopted by your community.
                                                                   If not, a pen and paper will do.                                                                                                                                                                          property.
                                                                   Go analog. Pace off your areas for a ruff estimate, draw                                             Hardscape Any non-living horizontal site element,                                                                                                                                                             Use only Full Shielded Fixtures!
                                                                   them on a piece of paper to use as a reference.                                                      including but not limited to patios, decks,                                                          Calculate the sq. ft. of each individual hardscape                                                       Do not shine or reflect light upwards! Choose luminairs


  basic
                                                                                                                                                                        walkways, sidewalks, driveways, and steps.                                                           area you wish to light.                                                                                  and fixtures that emit no light above the horizontal plain.
                                                                   Use Google Earth                                                                                     Any surface that you intentionally installed to move                                                 This will help you calculate how much lighting you will                                                  Need help? Use the QR Code above for advice.
                                                                   There are a number of applications online that can help                                              around on or park a car.                                                                             need to light each individual area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Use bulbs with color temperature of less than three


  Steps
                                                                   you measure the square footage of an area. You may find
                                                                   the tools available in Google Earth quite useful for this.                                           Softscape Any area within the site plan where                                                        Combine the total sq. ft. of all the hardscape areas                                                     thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
                                                                   Use the scan code above for useful tips on useing the
                                                                                                                                                                        hardscape is not present.                                                                            you wish to light.                                                                                       Don’t use lights that are blue or white in color temperature.
                                                                   tools available.                                                                                                                                                                                          You can get a general sense of how much light you will be
                                                                                                                                                                        These areas are your turf grass, your planter beds, your
                                                                                                                                                                        garden.                                                                                              allowed on your property. Assuming a typical mounting                                                    Take advantage of exemptions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             height a 60 lumen will illuminate approximately a 60 sq. ft.                                             Using motion sensors, and pathway lights under 18” in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             area for outdoor residential properties.                                                                 height allows you to install lighting that is excluded from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      your total lumen count.




                                  5. Create a list of the products used for each light source. Demonstrate compliant lighting. Identify exceptions. Follow your lighting plan.                                                                                                                                                  The easiest and most cost effective way to be Dark SKY Friendly is turn off lights when they are not in use.



 Quick Tip                                                                                                                          Quick Tip                                                                                                                                                                                  Quick Tip

 Dark Sky Don’ts                                                                                                                    Temporary Dark Sky Friendly                                                                                                                                                                Dark Sky DOs
  Do Not!                                                           Regulating                                                                  For                                                                         To Illuminate                                                            For                                                                      To Illuminate
  Leave lights on!                                                  Temporary (Exterior or Decorative) Lighting                                 Security                                                                    Signage                                                                  Accent Lighting                                                          Parking Areas
  • Only use the light you need, when you need it!                  • Turn off lighting used for holidays, or special events after              • Don’t leave lights on all night!                                          • Signs can be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted                    • Accent lighting should never be directed upward.                       • Any light post used to illuminate parking lots in multi-
    Constantly lit lights waste time, money, are less secure          10:00 pm.                                                                 • Use motion sensors that don’t activate unnecessarily.                       internally, or backlit. As long as the source light is not             • Accent lighting for structures should illuminating only                  family residential or commercial zones shall not exceed
    and interrupts human and ecological health!                     • Try not to exceed the allowed footcandle limit for the                    • Direct light so it does not fall outside of your property                   visible.                                                                 only building facades visible from an adjacent public                    fourteen feet (14’).
  Uplight!                                                            property.                                                                   Boundry.                                                                  • Lighting for signs should be directed so that only the                   right of way such as a street or sidewalk.                             • The overall height of any light post used to illuminate
  • Do not shine lights upwards! Not for Architectural              • Limit Display Periods to reduce Potential Disturbance                                                                                                   signs face is illuminated.                                             • The accent lighting light source should not be visible                   residential parking zones should not exceed six feet (6’).
    Lighting, Landscape Lighting, Signage, Floodlights,                                                                                                                                                                     • Lighting for signs should utilize stationary and constant                beyond the property boundaries.                                        • All post-mounted parking lot lights should set back from
    Security Lighting, Holidays and Special Events. Keep all                                                                                                                                                                  lighting.                                                              • The accent lighting should not used to illuminate                        property lines a distance equal to two and one-half (2.5)
    lights shining only below the horizontal plane.                                                                                                                                                                         • All sign elements should be stationary.                                  landscape, landscape elements, statues, or other similar                 times the height of the pole.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       features.
  Trespass!
  • Make sure that all of the light you are generating on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lighting
    your property, stays on your property! This may require                                                                                        Uplit Landscape                                                                                                                                                                                                            Recreational Areas
    you to do some extra shielding or defusing.                                                                                                    Accent Lighting                                                                                                                                                                                                            • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers,
  Control your light source!                                         Hillsides, Ridgelines,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hoods, or shielding.
  • Your light source may be visible far beyond the area                & Special Cases                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       • Illuminates only the playing field or court area.
    it is effectively Illuminating! If you live on a hillside or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Ensure the light sources for the recreational light are not
    ridgeline your deck lights bulb may be visible to every                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     visible from adjacent properties.
    neighbor living below you in elevation. Consider using
    dimmers, diffusers, and shields to ensure that you are                                                                                                                                                                                  For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Illuminate
    not creating a line-of-site glare issues for those adjacent                                                                                                                                                                             Accent Lighting                                                                                                                   Gathering Areas (patios, pool and hot tub areas,
    or across the canyon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dining areas, ext... )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Keep these lights off when the area is not in use!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Consider lighting that is activated by motion sensors and
                                                                                                               Uplit Architectural                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15) minutes after each
                                                                                                                Accent Lighting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 activation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                hoods, or shielding.
                                                                                                                                                Flashing, Blinking, or                                                                                                 Lighting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              • Illuminates only the area that will be utilized.
                                                                                                                                                Intermittent Lighting                                                                                                  Recreational Areas                                                                                     • Ensure the light source for the gathering area lights are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                not visible from adjacent properties.
                                              Consistantly Lighting on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Illuminate
                                               and around Structures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Regulating                                                                                                               Gathering Areas                                     To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Temporary Lighting                                                                    Entrances                                                                              Pathways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pathway lights less than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                eighteen inches (18”) in height
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                are exempt from the fully
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shielded fixture requirement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                if the lights have opaque caps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                that direct light below the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                horizontal plane.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Parking Areas                                           To Illuminate                                                                                                      To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pathways                                                                                                           Pools & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           For                                                                                                                                  The lighting should be placed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                underneath or behind the
                                                                                                                                                                To illuminate                                                                                              Security                                                                                                                             water such that the water
                                                                                                                                                                Signage                                                                                                                                                  Lighting                                                                               diffuses the light from all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pool & WaterFeatures                                                                   points where the light is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                visible.



Do not use Blue Color Temperature lighting on your plan! 							 Use lighting with more natural color temperature.							                                                                                                                            > 3,000 Kelvin
         8/9. City/Inner City Sky                                    7. City/Suburbia Transition                                      6. Bright Suburban Sky                                                5. Suburban Sky                                      4. Suburban/Rural Transition                                           3. Rural Sky                                             2. Dark-Sky Site                                     1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




  What are Dark Skies?                                                                                                                                                                 Why do Dark Skies Matter?                                                                                                                                                                                   Dark Sky Friendly?
  Night Sky Environment                                                                                                           Human Health                                                    Ecological Health                                                         Waste                                                      Safety                                                                                                              Take the Quiz
  The cycles of light and dark, created by celestial bodies outside of the earth’s atmosphere                                 Humans Need The Natural                                               Artificial Lights Disrupt                                  Light Pollution Costs Money                            Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Do you know if your home lighting is community and night sky friendly?
  directed cycles of activity and growth for all living things on earth until the proliferation of                               Day/Night Cycle                                                           Ecosystems                                             And Wastes Resources                               Lighting up the nighttime environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Follow the steps below to find out. Most people will find that a few simple
  lighting technologies. Today a view from space of earth’s surface at night reveals a matrix of                         Our biological clocks help keep us healthy.                          Plants and animals depend on Earth’s                       Poorly designed outdoor lighting wastes                     does not necessarily improve safety or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     security. This may seem contradictory, but                          changes can lead to lighting that is both beautiful and functional, without
  lights, stretching from metropolis to metropolis illuminating those areas most influenced                              When our master clock is out of sync with                            daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-              energy by not being shielded, emitting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     there is no clear scientific evidence that                                                             contributing to excessive light pollution.
  by humanity. Understanding your role in the Night Sky Environment can help you make                                    the day/night cycle, it’s called circadian                           sustaining behaviors such as reproduction,                 more light than necessary or shining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     increased outdoor lighting deters crime                                                                                        Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
  choices that reduce the impact lighting is having on you and your community.                                           disruption. Altering or interrupting our                             nourishment, sleep and protection from                     when and where it’s not needed. Wasting                                                                                                                                                                 International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                         normal circadian rhythm can put us at risk                           predators. Scientific evidence suggests                    energy in this way has huge economic and                                and increases safety.

  Our Impact                                                                                                              for physiological and behavioral impacts.                           that artificial light at night has negative
                                                                                                                                                                                              and deadly effects on many living things,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               environmental consequences.

  Many of us have experienced this scenario: a neighbor installs a new light on their property.
  It’s an unshielded fixture that casts a bright light that spills onto your property and perhaps
                                                                                                                                                                                              including amphibians, birds, mammals,
                                                                                                                                                                                                       invertebrates, and plants.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Review YOUR Ordinance
  even inside your home. Frustrating right?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Emigration Canyon Metro Township
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
  Have you considered that you might be that neighbor in someone else’s scenario? Steep                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dark Sky Friendly Home Lighting Program
  slopes in Emigration Canyon can create scenarios in which light sources can directly effect                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  International Dark Sky Association

  homes at great distances. The four topics below; Skyglow
                                                   Skyglow, Light Pollution, Light Trespass,
  and Glare, can help you better understand the potential impacts of uncontrolled light.


                                            Skyglow
  Skyglow occurs when ambient manmade light floods the sky creating a glow that can
  be almost as bright as dawn or dusk. The accumulated light washes the night sky of its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Develop YOUR Plan
  luminosity and brilliance, forcing urban and suburban dwellers who wish to enjoy a view of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Follow the steps below and utilize the Emigration Canyon Dark Skies Do’s and Dont’s
  the Milky Way Galaxy or constellations to make a pilgrimage to areas where light pollution                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               guide to develop a Dark Sky Adapted Lighting Plan for your Property!
                              does not exist or is better controlled.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1. Draw a simple sketch of your property
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2. Differentiate the Hardscape Areas From the Softscape Areas
    Communities and areas can be rated as to the quality of their Night Sky Environment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3. Identify all the places you would like to light, and when you would like to light them.
     from 9 to 1 based on the levels of Skyglow effecting their night sky environment.                                          Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk                            Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife                           Light Pollution Costs Money and                            Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety                                                         4. Mark on your plan where you will place a light source.
                                                                                                                                       International Dark Sky Association                               International Dark Sky Association                                Wastes Resources                                      International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Create a list of the luminairs you will use, and identify on the plan which luminairs will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    International Dark Sky Association
                  Where would you rate your community on the scale below?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be used at each light source.




                                                                                                                                                          Dark Skies Don’ts Dark Sky Dos
  Light Pollution                                                                      Lighting source visible
                                                                                                                                                                                      Leave Lights on All Night!                                     Turn Lights off!                                                                                                                                                                               Useful
  Light pollution is a side effect of industrial civilization. Its
                                                                                        outside the property
                                                                                                                                                              If you are not using the area, please don’t light it lit!                              If you are not using the area, please don’t leave it lit!                                                                                                          Use light only if it is needed
  sources include building exterior and interior lighting,
  advertising, commercial properties, offices, factories,                                                                                                        Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an                                 Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an easy                                                                                                 All light should have a clear purpose. Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     how the use of light will impact the area,
  streetlights, and illuminated sporting venues.                                                                                                                   easy and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!                                    and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!                                                                                                                            including wildlife and their habitats..

  The fact is that much outdoor lighting used
  at night is inefficient, overly bright, poorly

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Targeted
  targeted, improperly shielded, and, in
  many cases, completely unnecessary.

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Light Trespass                                                                                                      Low Level
  This light, and the electricity used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Direct light so it falls only where it is needed
  to create it, is being wasted by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Use shielding and careful aiming to target the direction of
  spilling it into the sky, rather                                                                                                                                   Light trespassing is when light from one house or property is                                                        Light should be no brighter than necessary                                                               the light beam so that it points downward and does not
  than focusing it on to                                                                                                                                               improperly controlled and crosses boundaries. Trespassing                                                          Use the lowest light level required. Be mindful of surface                                                                        spill beyond where it is needed.
  the actual objects                                                                                                                                                 light interferes with the darkness of other properties or even                                                       conditions, as some surfaces may reflect more light into
  and areas that                                                                                                                                                                    brightens the inside of another persons home.                                                                                       the night sky than intended.
  people        want
  illuminated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                                                                                                                                          affecting a
                                                                                                                                                                                                  residence at lower elevation


     Consistently Illuminated
        Spotlight Zones                                                                                                                        Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                   Over-lit areas producing                                                at the
                                                                                       Light Pollution                                                Property Line




  Glare                                                                                                                                                   Upward
  Glare caused by light pollutions is a lot like the glare                                                                                            reflected light
  that is created by the sun. A common cause of glare
  are street lights and car headlights, which can impact                                                                                                                                                                                                         Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  affecting Public Space
  of a person’s ability to see clearly in the dark after the                                                                                                                                      Glare Zones
  car has passed. This can lessen a persons nighttime
  depth perception and their ability to discern
  between different shadows in the dark.

                                                                                                                                   Useful Light
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Controlled
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Direct Glare
                                                                         Glare Zones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Color
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Use light only when it is needed                                                             Use warmer color lights where possible
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Use controls such as timers or motion detectors to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Limit the amount of shorter wavelength (blue-violet)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ensure that light is available when it is needed, dimmed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         light to the least amount needed.
                                                                                                                                                                            Area to be lit                                                                                                          when possible, and turned off when not needed.



  Develop your
                                    1. Sketch your Property’s                                                                                            2. Differentiate the                                                                                         3. Identify areas you would                                                                                      4. Mark on your plan
  Night                             Landscape Plan                                                                                                       Hardscape Areas From the                                                                                     like to light, and when you                                                                                      where you will place
                                                                                                                                                         Softscape Areas                                                                                              might need them lit                                                                                              each light source type
  Lighting
                                                                                                Measure distances and areas in Google Earth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Find Dark Sky Friendly Lighting
                                                                                                                           Google Earth Help                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   International Dark Sky Association




  Plan                                                                        Use what you have!
                                                                              Do you already have a landscape plan?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Why differentiate?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    We typically have very different expectations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Think Safety. Think Fun.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Remember the 5 guiding principles: Useful,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lighting Choice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X Foot candles Allowed / Sq. Ft. Hardscape = Total




  in 5
                                                                              What you are looking for is a calculation of the square                                                               about how we light hard and softscape areas.                                                                Targeted, Low Levels, Controlled, & Color                                                                    Lumen
                                                                              footage (sq. ft.) of the areas you would like to light.                                                               By prioritizing hardscape first, you will ensure you are                                                    Prioritize areas that will be most heavily traveled. Plan                                                    Use this simple formula to curate a lighting plan that
                                                                                                                                                                                                    being targeted and useful with your lighting choices.                                                       for activities that you would like to take place on your                                                     meets the standards adopted by your community.
                                                                              If not, a pen and paper will do.                                                                                                                                                                                                  property.
                                                                              Go analog. Pace off your areas for a ruff estimate, draw                                                              Hardscape Any non-living horizontal site element,                                                                                                                                                                        Use only Full Shielded Fixtures!
                                                                              them on a piece of paper to use as a reference.                                                                       including but not limited to patios, decks,                                                                 Calculate the sq. ft. of each individual hardscape                                                           Do not shine or reflect light upwards! Choose luminairs


  basic
                                                                                                                                                                                                    walkways, sidewalks, driveways, and steps.                                                                  area you wish to light.                                                                                      and fixtures that emit no light above the horizontal plain.
                                                                              Use Google Earth                                                                                                      Any surface that you intentionally installed to move                                                        This will help you calculate how much lighting you will                                                      Need help? Use the QR Code above for advice.
                                                                              There are a number of applications online that can help                                                               around on or park a car.                                                                                    need to light each individual area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Use bulbs with color temperature of less than three


  Steps
                                                                              you measure the square footage of an area. You may find
                                                                              the tools available in Google Earth quite useful for this.                                                            Softscape Any area within the site plan where                                                               Combine the total sq. ft. of all the hardscape areas                                                         thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
                                                                              Use the scan code above for useful tips on useing the
                                                                                                                                                                                                    hardscape is not present.                                                                                   you wish to light.                                                                                           Don’t use lights that are blue or white in color temperature.
                                                                              tools available.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  You can get a general sense of how much light you will be
                                                                                                                                                                                                    These areas are your turf grass, your planter beds, your
                                                                                                                                                                                                    garden.                                                                                                     allowed on your property. Assuming a typical mounting                                                        Take advantage of exemptions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                height a 60 lumen will illuminate approximately a 60 sq. ft.                                                 Using motion sensors, and pathway lights under 18” in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                area for outdoor residential properties.                                                                     height allows you to install lighting that is excluded from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             your total lumen count.




                                    5. Create a list of the products used for each light source. Demonstrate compliant lighting. Identify exceptions. Follow your lighting plan.                                                                                                                                                                                      The easiest and most cost effective way to be Dark SKY Friendly is turn off lights when they are not in use.



 Quick Tip                                                                                                                                     Quick Tip                                                                                                                                                                                                             Quick Tip

 Dark Sky Don’ts                                                                                                                               Temporary Dark Sky Friendly                                                                                                                                                                                           Dark Sky DOs
  Do Not!                                                                      Regulating                                                                                   For                                                                         To Illuminate                                                                   For                                                                          To Illuminate
  Leave lights on!                                                             Temporary (Exterior or Decorative) Lighting                                                  Security                                                                    Signage                                                                         Accent Lighting                                                              Parking Areas
  • Only use the light you need, when you need it!                             • Turn off lighting used for holidays, or special events after                               • Don’t leave lights on all night!                                          • Signs can be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted                           • Accent lighting should never be directed upward.                           • Any light post used to illuminate parking lots in multi-
    Constantly lit lights waste time, money, are less secure                     10:00 pm.                                                                                  • Use motion sensors that don’t activate unnecessarily.                       internally, or backlit. As long as the source light is not                    • Accent lighting for structures should illuminating only                      family residential or commercial zones shall not exceed
    and interrupts human and ecological health!                                • Try not to exceed the allowed footcandle limit for the                                     • Direct light so it does not fall outside of your property                   visible.                                                                        only building facades visible from an adjacent public                        fourteen feet (14’).
  Uplight!                                                                       property.                                                                                    Boundry.                                                                  • Lighting for signs should be directed so that only the                          right of way such as a street or sidewalk.                                 • The overall height of any light post used to illuminate
  • Do not shine lights upwards! Not for Architectural                         • Limit Display Periods to reduce Potential Disturbance                                                                                                                    signs face is illuminated.                                                    • The accent lighting light source should not be visible                       residential parking zones should not exceed six feet (6’).
    Lighting, Landscape Lighting, Signage, Floodlights,                                                                                                                                                                                                 • Lighting for signs should utilize stationary and constant                       beyond the property boundaries.                                            • All post-mounted parking lot lights should set back from
    Security Lighting, Holidays and Special Events. Keep all                                                                                                                                                                                              lighting.                                                                     • The accent lighting should not used to illuminate                            property lines a distance equal to two and one-half (2.5)
    lights shining only below the horizontal plane.                                                                                                                                                                                                     • All sign elements should be stationary.                                         landscape, landscape elements, statues, or other similar                     times the height of the pole.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          features.
  Trespass!
  • Make sure that all of the light you are generating on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lighting
    your property, stays on your property! This may require                                                                                                                     Uplit Landscape                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Recreational Areas
    you to do some extra shielding or defusing.                                                                                                                                 Accent Lighting                                                                                                                                                                                                                      • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers,
  Control your light source!                                                    Hillsides, Ridgelines,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 hoods, or shielding.
  • Your light source may be visible far beyond the area                           & Special Cases                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   • Illuminates only the playing field or court area.
    it is effectively Illuminating! If you live on a hillside or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • Ensure the light sources for the recreational light are not
    ridgeline your deck lights bulb may be visible to every                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            visible from adjacent properties.
    neighbor living below you in elevation. Consider using
    dimmers, diffusers, and shields to ensure that you are                                                                                                                                                                                                               For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Illuminate
    not creating a line-of-site glare issues for those adjacent                                                                                                                                                                                                          Accent Lighting                                                                                                                             Gathering Areas (patios, pool and hot tub areas,
    or across the canyon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     dining areas, ext... )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • Keep these lights off when the area is not in use!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • Consider lighting that is activated by motion sensors and
                                                                                                                          Uplit Architectural                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15) minutes after each
                                                                                                                           Accent Lighting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             activation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       hoods, or shielding.
                                                                                                                                                                             Flashing, Blinking, or                                                                                                       Lighting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     • Illuminates only the area that will be utilized.
                                                                                                                                                                             Intermittent Lighting                                                                                                        Recreational Areas                                                                                         • Ensure the light source for the gathering area lights are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       not visible from adjacent properties.
                                                 Consistantly Lighting on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Illuminate
                                                  and around Structures                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Regulating                                                                                                                         Gathering Areas                                        To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Temporary Lighting                                                                                Entrances                                                                               Pathways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pathway lights less than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         eighteen inches (18”) in height
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         are exempt from the fully
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shielded fixture requirement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         if the lights have opaque caps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         that direct light below the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         horizontal plane.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Parking Areas                                                  To Illuminate                                                                                                            To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pathways                                                                                                                 Pools & Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              For                                                                                                                                        The lighting should be placed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         underneath or behind the
                                                                                                                                                                                             To illuminate                                                                                                    Security                                                                                                                                   water such that the water
                                                                                                                                                                                             Signage                                                                                                                                                             Lighting                                                                                diffuses the light from all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pool & WaterFeatures                                                                    points where the light is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         visible.



Do not use Blue Color Temperature lighting on your plan! 							 Use lighting with more natural color temperature.							                                                                                                                                                         > 3,000 Kelvin
