                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                 Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                      Public Meeting Agenda

                    Thursday, March 16, 2023 8:30 A.M.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/meet/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
Anchor Location          Emigration Canyon Fire Station
                         5025 Emigration Canyon Road
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance, or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                      BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Approval of the January 26, and February 16, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting
      Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Dark Sky Ordinance language review and updating graphical content. Revisions
      incorporated from this work session will be delivered to the Metro Township Council for
      a recommendation to proceed with the Public Hearing. Planner: Matt Starley
   3) Other Business Items. (As needed)

                                             ADJOURN

March 16, 2023                                Page 1 of 2                 AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



March 16, 2023                                            AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
                                 Planning and Development Services
                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               EMIGRATION PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Thursday, January 26, 2023 12:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 10 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wallace

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
     Andrew Wallace (Chair)                   x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                                  x
        Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
                                                                              Jim Nakamura                                 x
            Jim Karkut                        x
                                                                             Curtis Woodward                               x
          Dale Berreth                        x
                                                                               Matt Starley                                x
     Tim Harpst (Vice Chair)                  x
                                                                              Kayla Mauldin
           Jodi Geroux                        x
                                                                               Brian Tucker
                                                                                Adam Long




                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 12:04 p.m.
    1) Commissioners and Planning staff will review and discuss comments and suggestions made
       toward Dark Sky Ordinance Language and Graphics. Planner: Matt Starley.

        Mr. Starley introduced the Salt Lake City rezone. Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion
        regarding sending a letter directly from the planning commission, change 595 homes to 661 homes.
        Add in Mr. Nakamura drawings to setback and slope. Commissioner Wallace and Commissioner
        Geroux will get together to finalize the letter.

        Mr. Starley provided phases reviewed August forward, discussed upcoming code update and
        adoption, changes made and difficulty identifying the changes.

        Mr. Starley expressed thanks to updates, changes added as a comment. Three different copies of the
        document with changes from different individuals.

        Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding non-conforming uses and five years to

Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 26, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                Page 1 of 2
        comply, motion activated disturbances, multi-family homes allowing more foot candles than single-
        family homes including duplexes, temporary exterior lighting, prohibited lighting and timeframe of
        30 to 45 days for holiday and seasonal lighting, 10 pm curfew and 10 percent shielded lighting,
        stationary and no moving lights in addition to or consistent with the sign code, unshielded lighting
        and trespassing, illumination turned off within one hour after and businesses close, light source,
        fully shielded fixtures, spill and affect, deflection, light source visibility outside the property
        boundary and diffuser, fully shielded light accessories, and confirmed measuring lumens.

    2) Other Business Items. (As needed)

        Confirmed the next meeting dates.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 2:14 p.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – January 26, 2023 – Meeting Summary               Page 2 of 2
Emigration Canyon Metro Township

DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING



19.73.110 – Purpose.
A. The purposes of this chapter are to:
    1. Encourage lighting practices that minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and sky glow to
       curtail the night sky's visual environment's degradation.
    2. Encourage lighting practices that promote energy conservation.
    3. Maintain nighttime safety, utility, and security.
    4. Prevent unnecessary or inappropriate outdoor lighting and lighting nuisances.
    5. Maintain the rural atmosphere and community character of the Metro Township.
    6. Provide protections for ecological conditions and nocturnal wildlife within the Metro Township.
    7. Preserve and enhance views of the night sky.



19.73.111 - Scope and Applicability.
A. Compliance.
    1. Lighting installed and/or replaced after the effective date hereof in all zones in the Metro
       Township shall conform to the requirements established by this Chapter.
B. Nonconforming Uses.
    1. Lighting that does not meet the requirements of this Chapter and is not exempt from the
       requirements of this chapter shall be considered a nonconforming use.
C. Modifications.
    1. Compliance through the Building Permit Process: The Metro Township requires that lighting be
       brought into compliance through the building permit process;
            i. If modifications are made to any structure which requires the removal of a
                nonconforming luminaire, the luminaire shall be replaced or modified to bring it into
                compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
            ii. If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of 50% or more of the
                property value at the time of submittal. A lighting plan for the property shall be
                submitted subject to the conditions outlined in Section 19.73.110
    2. In the event a nonconforming luminaire is replaced, destroyed, damaged, or modified by fifty
       percent (50%) or more, the replacement shall comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
D. Conflicts.
    1. In the event any federal, state, or county statute or regulation conflicts with any provision of this
       Chapter, the most restrictive statute, regulation, or provision shall govern unless otherwise
       required by law. In the event any provision of the Metro Township’s other ordinances conflicts
       with the provisions of this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter shall govern.
19.73.112 - Conditions and Standards.
A. Minimum Necessary.
    1. Outdoor (exterior) lighting shall be the minimum necessary to provide for safety and
       functionality. The lowest-lumen light source necessary for a lighting application shall be used.
       a. All lighting shall be purpose-driven:
            i. Useful: All light used shall have a clear purpose.
            ii. Targeted: Light shall be directed only to where needed.
            iii. Low Light Levels: Light shall be no brighter than necessary.
            iv. Controlled: Light shall be used only when it is useful.
            v. Color: Where possible, warmer color lights shall be used.
B. Allowable Applications.
    1. Outdoor lighting in compliance with the Chapter shall only be allowed in the following
       applications:
       a. To illuminate the entrances to buildings (including garage entrances).
       b. To illuminate pathways and walkways.
       c. To illuminate parking areas and parking area access lanes.
       d. To illuminate gathering areas, such as patios, pool and hot tub areas, dining areas, and
            recreation areas.
       e. For security purposes, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
                 minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
            ii. The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct illumination falls outside the
                 property boundaries where the security lighting is placed.
            iii. Sensors are adjusted to meet site conditions to avoid repetitive activation by wildlife,
                 wind, and/or other disturbances.
       f. To illuminate signage.
       g. For Accent Lighting, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. All accent lighting is mounted on and illuminating only building facades visible from an
                 adjacent public right of way.
            ii. The accent lighting is sufficiently shielded such that the light source is not visible beyond
                 the property boundaries.
            iii. The accent lighting is directed such that all light shines on the building facade, not on
                 the adjacent property or the night sky.
            iv. The accent lighting is not used to illuminate landscape, landscape elements, statues, or
                 other similar features.
       h. To illuminate outdoor water features, provided all the following conditions are met:
            i. The lighting is angled below the horizontal plane.
            ii. The lighting is placed underneath or behind the water such that the water diffuses the
                 light from all points where the light is visible.
       i. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting utilized for holidays or special events shall be
            extinguished by 10:00 pm. When in use, the lighting shall not exceed the allowed footcandle
            limit for the property. This can be accomplished by reducing light usage in other areas of the
            property. Temporary lighting shall be limited to the following:
            i. The period of time between December 1st and January 1st each calendar year; and,
            ii. Periods outside the month of December, shall not exceed 14 days per calendar month
                for other holidays and special events.

C. Total Light Output.
   1. Commercial Properties and Religious Institutions - The total amount of outdoor lighting,
       whether shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed 2.5 footcandles per square foot of hardscape.
   2. Multi-Family Residential Properties - The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether shielded or
       unshielded, shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles per square foot of hardscape.
   3. Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties - The total amount of outdoor
       lighting, whether shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed 1.0 footcandles per square foot of
       hardscape.
       a. Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties used for overnight
            accommodations or commercial uses shall comply with Single-Family Residential standards
            for total light output.
   4. For all Properties – Light output from indoor and outdoor sources shall not exceed 0.1
       footcandles at the property line.
D. Maximum Color Temperature of All Outdoor Lighting Fixtures.
   1. The correlated color temperature of any outdoor lighting fixture shall not exceed three
       thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
E. Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements.
   1. Unless specifically exempted by this Chapter, all outdoor lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures
       that are designed and constructed so that:
       a. No light is emitted and/or reflected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
       b. Lighting is placed and/or directed at a location, angle, and/or height to prevent direct
            illumination outside the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.
       c. When a light manufacturer provides a BUG rating, the uplight rating (U) shall equal zero (0).
   2. Characteristics:
       a. To qualify as a fully shielded fixture, the top and sides of a light fixture shall be made of
            completely opaque material, such that light only escapes through the bottom of the fixture.
            Fixtures with translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not
            qualify as fully shielded. Any glass or diffuser on the bottom of the fixture must be flush with
            the fixture (no drop lenses) and must not reflect light that breaks the horizontal plane
            established at the top of the fixture. Merely placing a light fixture under an eave, canopy,
            patio cover or other similar cover does not qualify the fixture as being fully shielded.
F. Exemptions To Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements. All lighting identified in this Section shall be
   included in calculating the total footcandle output allowed unless otherwise noted and as set forth
   in Section 19.73.112. C.
   1. Spotlights:
       a. Spotlights controlled by motion sensors having a light output of less than one thousand
            (1000) lumens per lamp are exempt from the fully shielded requirement, provided:
            i. The fixture is a spotlight or other type of directed light that shall be directed at a forty-
                 five-degree (45°) angle or less, where the zero (0) angle is pointing straight down, and
                 (a) The fixture must not be placed in such a manner that results in light trespass, and
                 (b) The lighting elements controlled by motion sensors shall not be triggered by
                     movement or activity located off the property on which it is located.
            ii. The fixture is hooded or shielded to the extent necessary to prevent glare on adjacent
                 properties or roadways.
            iii. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
                 minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
   2. Pathway Lights:
       a. Pathway lights less than eighteen inches (18") in height are exempt from the fully shielded
            fixture requirement if:
            i. The total light emitted by all pathway light fixtures as measured along the centerline of
                 the pathway lighted does not exceed 1.0 footcandles; and
            ii. The lights have opaque caps that direct light below the horizontal plane.
   3. Temporary Exterior or Decorative Lighting:
       a. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting, provided that individual lamps do not exceed 70
            lumens, the total output of temporary lighting does not cause the property to exceed total
            allowable footcandle levels detailed in this Chapter, and the lighting does not cause light
            intrusion or interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
   4. Law Enforcement Lighting Traffic Control Signals and Traffic Safety Devices:
       a. Traffic control signals, traffic safety devices, and law enforcement lighting, used by a
            governing agency, is exempt from and not governed by the provisions of this Chapter.
   5. Temporary Emergency Lighting:
       a. Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement or government agencies, or at
            their direction, is exempt from and not governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   6. Pool Lighting
       a. Underwater lighting fixtures providing illumination to all underwater areas of the pool.
G. Restrictions On Total Amount of Unshielded Lighting.
   1. Outdoor lighting that is exempt from the shielding requirement in this Chapter shall not
       contribute more than the equivalent of:
       a. 0.25 footcandles per square foot of hardscape for commercial properties.
       b. 0.2 footcandles per total square foot of hardscape for multi-family properties.
       c. 0.1 footcandles per square foot of hardscape for residential properties.
   2. All lighting fixtures shall be fully shielded when installed within twenty-five (25) feet of adjacent
       residential property lines.



19.73.113 – Night Lighting Limitations.
A. Commercial Establishments and Religious Institutions.
    1. Shall turn off all outdoor lighting, except those listed below, within one hour after closing.
       a. Lighting to illuminate the entrance(s).
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of guests.
B. Recreational Lighting (Residential and Commercial).
    1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except to
       conclude a community-approved event that is underway.
C. Multi-Family Residential Property Lighting.
   1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except those
       listed below:
       a. Lighting to illuminate entrances.
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of residents or guests.
       c. Outdoor gathering and recreational spaces, when in use.
D. Single-Family Residential Property Lighting.
   1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk ending the following morning at 6:00 am, except those
       listed below:
       a. Lighting to illuminate entrances.
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of residents or guests.
       c. Outdoor gathering and recreational spaces, when in use.



19.73.114 - Specialized Outdoor Lighting.
A. Roadway/Streetlights.
    1. Roadways and streetlights are prohibited unless recommended by the County Engineer or
       required by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). When deemed necessary,
       streetlights shall utilize lamp types that are fully shielded luminaires that minimize sky glow,
       light trespass, and other unintended impacts of artificial lighting. All street lights shall utilize the
       lowest light levels accepted by the County Engineer and/or UDOT.
B. Parking Lots.
    1. Spot or flood lighting of parking lots from a building or other structure is prohibited.
    2. The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots in multi-family residential or
       commercial zones shall not exceed fourteen feet (14'). All post-mounted parking lot lights shall
       be set back from property lines a distance equal to two and one-half (2.5) times the height of
       the pole unless an internal or external shield prevents the fixture from being visible from
       outside the property boundaries.
    3. The overall height of any light post used to illuminate parking lots in residential zones shall not
       exceed six feet (6').
    4. All parking lot lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures.
    5. Internal or external shields shall prevent the light source from being visible from outside the
       relevant parking lot.
C. Recreational Lighting.
    1. The Director or designee shall review all requests for new recreational lighting fixtures for fields
       or courts only after finding:
       a. The recreational lighting has provisions for minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using
            louvers, hoods, or shielding.
       b. The recreational lighting does not exceed illumination levels for class IV sports lighting set by
            the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
       c. The recreational lighting only illuminates the playing field or court area and is shielded to
            prevent illumination from falling outside of those areas.
       d. The light source for the recreational light is not visible from adjacent properties.
D. Pole-mounted recreational lighting.
   1. Pole-mounted recreational lighting shall be limited to eighteen feet (18') in height. Pole-
       mounted recreational lighting must be set at a distance equal to or greater than the height of
       the pole installed from any adjacent property line.
   2. The lighting for non-playing field and non-court areas shall conform to all provisions of this
       Chapter.
E. Amphitheater Lighting.
   1. Outdoor amphitheaters may use illumination to light the performance area of the amphitheater
       and provide public safety. The following standards apply to all amphitheater lighting:
       a. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area must be either directed spotlighting or
           fully shielded lighting. If directed spotlighting, the light source must be located and designed
           such that it is not visible beyond the property boundaries.
       b. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area may only be turned on during
           performances or rehearsals.
       c. Lighting used to illuminate the seating areas, pathways, and other areas of the amphitheater
           must meet all standards of this Chapter.
F. Signs.
   1. Where other municipal ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, this
       Chapter shall apply and take precedence.
   2. Signs may be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted internally, or backlit. All sign lighting must be
       designed, directed, and shielded in such a manner that the light source is not visible beyond the
       property boundaries where the sign is located. Lighting for signs must be directed such that only
       the sign’s face is illuminated.
   3. Lighting for signs must be stationary and constant.
   4. All signage elements must be stationary.
   5. Standards for Externally Illuminated Signs:
       a. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be aimed and shielded so that light is directed
           only onto the sign face and does not intrude onto adjacent streets, roads, or properties or
           into the night sky.
       b. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be mounted at the top of the sign (or within
           two (2) feet of the top of a building-mounted sign).
   6. Standards for Internally Illuminated Signs
       a. Lighting Is Visible on Both Sides of the Sign:
           i. Only sign copy areas and logos may be illuminated on an internally illuminated sign.
           ii. Internally illuminated signs shall use semi-opaque materials for sign copy such that the
                light emanating from the sign is diffused. Transparent or clear materials are not allowed
                for sign copy. Non-copy portions of the sign (e.g., background and graphics) shall be
                made of completely opaque material.
   7. Standards for Backlit Signs
       a. Only One Side of Sign Is Lit:
           i. Backlit signs shall be designed such that the light source is not visible.
           ii. Backlit signs shall be designed such that harsh, direct illumination does not emanate out
                of the sign. Rather, the backlighting shall only allow indirect illumination to emanate
                from the sign. For example, signs that create a "halo" effect around sign copy are
                allowed.
           iii. Backlit signs shall use low lumen light sources.
    8. Illuminated Window Signage:
       a. Illuminated window signs positioned to be primarily visible outside all structures are allowed
           only if there are no more than two (2) signs per space. Each sign shall measure less than
           three and one-half (31/2) square feet in area.



19.73.115 - Prohibited Lighting.
A. Accent Lighting that is directed upward above the horizontal plane to illuminate building structures,
    landscape, landscape features, statues or similar features, vegetation, or for any other use.
B. Flashing, blinking, intermittent, or other lights that move or give the impression of movement.
C. Unshielded Floodlights or Spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of lighting parking lots.
D. Searchlights, laser source lights, or any similar high-intensity light.
E. In the case of Residential Properties, no lighting fixture shall be mounted on a structure at an
    elevation of more than 14 ft. above the elevation identified for the lowest elevation entrance to the
    corresponding side of the structure, each structure having an identified front, two sides, and a rear.   Commented [MS1]: I will create a graphic example for
    1. For structures having sides without an entrance, the height limitation established by the lowest      this condition by the our meeting on the 16th.
        base floor entrance elevation on any side of the structure shall control.
    2. Wall-mounted lighting may be utilized for patios and decks located above the primary entrance
        elevation, provided that the lighting is directed so that all light falls only the deck or patio
        surface intended to be lit and the light source is shielded and/or diffused such that it is not
        visible outside the property boundary.

19.73.116 – Towers.
A. All monopole, antenna, tower, or support facility lighting not required by the Federal Aviation
    Administration (FAA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Municipal Fire and Police, or
    radio towers is prohibited.
B. When lighting is required by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police, such lighting shall not
    exceed the minimum requirements of those agencies. Collision markers should have a dual mode for
    day and night to minimize impact on the night sky and migrating birds.
C. All other lighting used on the property not regulated by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police
    shall conform to this Chapter.

19.73.117 - Application and Review Procedures.
A. Where appropriate, the Metro Township will provide information to homeowners on best practice
    application of the lighting principles set forth in this Chapter.
B. Lighting Plan Required.
    1. In any application for a sign permit, building permit, conditional use permit, subdivision,
       design/development review, and any other development application within any zoning district,
       including all municipal projects, requires the applicant to, as part of the application process,
       submit sufficient information to enable the Director or Designee to determine whether
       proposed lighting complies with this Chapter. All applications may be subject to review and
       action by the Planning Commission at the discretion of the Director or Designee. All applications
       shall include a Lighting Plan meeting the requirements set forth herein.
   2. Lighting Plans shall include the following:
      a. Site Plans or drawings indicating the proposed location of outdoor lighting fixtures, both
           proposed and any already existing on site. Including:
           i. height of lighting fixtures on the premises, and
           ii. type of illumination devices, lamps, supports, shielding and reflectors used and,
           iii. installation and electrical details,
      b. A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp, support, and shield, both proposed
           and existing. The description shall include, but is not limited to, the manufacturer’s catalog
           cuts and illustrations (including sections where required); lamp types, wattages, initial
           lumen outputs, and shielding mechanisms. A B.U.G. rating must be included if supplied for
           each luminaire or fixture.
      c. A table showing the total number of proposed exterior lights, by fixture type, lumens, and
           lamp type, Including a Manufacture Cut Sheet whenever possible.
      d. The Lighting Plan must demonstrate that no more than the allotted footcandle of light shall
           be utilized on the property or properties, as specified in section 19.73.112 - Conditions and
           Standards. Article C. Total Light Output.
      e. Such other information that the Director or Designee may determine is necessary to ensure
           compliance with this Chapter.
C. Approval Procedure.
   1. If the Director or Designee determines that any proposed lighting described in a lighting plan
      does not comply with this Chapter, the plan shall not be approved, and the specific permit
      applied for shall not be issued.



19.73.118 - Appeals, Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties.
A. Appeal for Exemption.
    1. The Land Use Hearing Officer may approve lighting that does not comply with this Chapter if
       need is established. An applicant requesting that such lighting be approved must provide proof
       of requirements of property insurance or findings of competent research demonstrating a need
       for the requested lighting. The Land Use Hearing Officer may attach other conditions to the
       approval of such lighting that will make the lighting comply with the spirit of this Chapter.
B. Violations.
    1. The following constitute violations of this chapter:
       a. Failing to meet light curfew standards as outlined in section 19.73.113 of this ordinance
            after the effective date of this Chapter.
       b. The installation, maintenance, or operation of any lighting fixture not in compliance with the
            provisions of this Chapter if such fixture is installed after the effective date of this Chapter.
       c. The alteration of outdoor lighting fixtures after the approval of a lighting plan by the
            director or designee, when such alteration does not conform to the provisions of this
            chapter.
       d. Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed, operated, maintained, or
            altered in violation of this Chapter.
       e. Amortization: All exterior lighting fixtures that do not conform to the requirements of this
            Chapter shall be brought into conformance no later than 5 years from the effective date of
            this Chapter. The Metro Township encourages property owners to voluntarily bring
            nonconforming lighting into compliance with this chapter.

C. Enforcement.
   1. If, after investigation, the Director or Designee finds that any provision of this Chapter is being
       violated, the Director or Designee shall give notice by hand delivery or by certified mail, return
       receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or occupant of such premises, demanding
       that the violation be abated within 30 days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing
       of the notice. Planning and Development Services staff shall be available to assist in working
       with the violator to correct said violation. If the violation is not abated within the 30-day period,
       the Director or Designee or designee may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or
       equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any violations of this Chapter and to collect penalties for
       such violations.
   2. Hillsides, Ridgelines, and Special Cases
       a. In certain cases (such as but not limited to, properties on or near ridgelines or hillsides), the
           Director or Designee may require that certain steps be implemented to mitigate the effects
           of light pollution, glare, light trespass, sky glow, and to curtail the degradation of the night
           sky environment.
           i. For any light source that is directly visible from outside the property boundaries on
                which the light source is located, the property owner shall redirect, shield, and/or
                diffuse the light source to minimize the impact and/or address any unintended effect on
                the night sky environment. This provision does not apply to existing lighting during
                which time it is subject to the amortization period.
D. Penalties.
   1. Penalties. A violation of this Chapter, or any provision thereof, shall be punishable by a civil
       penalty of $50.00 per day, and each day of violation after the expiration of the 30-day
       abatement period set forth in Section 19.73.118.C.1 shall constitute a separate offense for the
       purpose of calculating the civil penalty.



19.73.119 – Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words, phrases, and terms used herein shall have the meanings
assigned to them by this section:

A-M
Accent Lighting: Lighting of building surfaces, landscape features, statues, and similar items for the
purpose of decoration or ornamentation; or lighting that does not contribute to the safety or security of
residents, guests, employees, or customers on a property.

Adaptive Controls: Devices such as motion sensors, timers, and dimmers used in concert with outdoor
lighting equipment to vary the intensity or duration of the operation of lighting.

Ambient light: The general overall level of lighting in an area.

Backlight: All the light emanating behind a luminaire.
Ballast: A device used with a discharge lamp to obtain the necessary voltage, current, and/or waveform
for starting and operating the lamp.

Basement: means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides. A
walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

Brightness: Strength of the sensation that results from viewing surfaces from which the light comes to
the eye.

B.U.G. Rating: A BUG Rating stands for backlight, uplight, and glare. Backlight (B) is the light directed
behind the fixture, uplight (U) is any light directed upward above the horizontal plane of the luminaire,
and glare (G) is the amount of light emitted from the luminaire at high angles.




                                      Figure XX: Explanation of BUG Ratings

Bulb or lamp: The source of electric light. To be distinguished from the whole assembly (see luminaire).
Lamp often is used to denote the bulb and its housing.

Candela (cd): Unit of luminous intensity. One candela is one lumen per steradian. Formerly called the
candle.




                                           Figure XX: Candela Example

Commercial Property: Any parcel within the C-2 Zone, and/or any parcel with a building containing 10 or
more residential units.

Constant Lighting. Lighting that does not flash, blink, strobe, or otherwise emit bright bursts of light.
Correlated Color Temperature (CCT): A specification of the color appearance of the light emitted by a
lamp, relating its color to the color of light from a reference source when heated to a particular
temperature, measured in degrees kelvin (K).




                                     Figure XX: Correlated Color Temperature

Cut-off angle, of a luminaire: The angle, measured up from the nadir (i.e. straight down), between the
vertical axis and the first line of sight at which the bulb or lamp is not visible.

Diffuser: A device used to distribute light from a source.

Dimmer: A device for varying the brightness of an electric light.

Direct Illumination: Illumination resulting from light emitted directly from a lamp, luminary, or reflector.
This does not include light reflected from other surfaces, such as the ground or building faces.

Dusk: The darker part of twilight especially at night. Timetables identifying specific hours for dusk on any
given day are located at: https://www.gaisma.com/en/location/salt-lake-city-utah.html.

Efficiency: A measure of the effective or useful output of a system compared to the input of the system.

Energy (radiant energy): Unit is erg, or joule, or kWh.

Facade lighting: The illumination of the exterior of a building. (see also Accent Lighting)

Fixture (light fixture): The assembly that holds the lamp in a lighting system. It includes the elements
designed to give light output control, such as a reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing,
and the attachment parts.

Fixture Lumens: A light fixture’s light output after processing of emitted light by optics in that fixture.

Fixture Watts: The total power consumed by a fixture. This includes the power consumed by the
lamp(s) and ballast(s).
                                 Figure XX: Watts to Lumens Relationship Example

Floodlight: A fixture designed to “flood” a well-defined area with light.

Footcandle: A footcandle is a measurement of light intensity. One footcandle is defined as enough light
to illuminate a one-foot square with one lumen of light.




                                        Figure XX: Footcandle Description




Full-cutoff fixture: An IES definition; “Zero intensity at or above horizontal (90° above nadir) and limited
to a value not exceeding 10% of lamp lumens at or above 80°”.

Fully Shielded Fixture: An outdoor luminaire constructed and mounted so that the installed fixture
emits no light above the horizontal plane. Surrounding structures, like canopies, cannot be considered
when determining if the fixture is fully shielded.
Figure XX: Examples of Acceptable and Unacceptable Light Fixtures
Glare: the visual sensation caused by excessive brightness, and which causes annoyance, discomfort, or
a loss in visual performance or visibility.




                                           Figure XX: Unwanted Glare

Hardscape: Any non-living horizontal site element, including but not limited to patios, decks, walkways,
sidewalks, driveways, and steps.

House-side Shield: Opaque material applied to a fixture to block the light from illuminating a residence
or other structure being protected from light trespass.

Illuminance: Density of luminous flux incident on a surface. Illuminance can be measured using
footcandle or lux.

Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA): The professional society of lighting
engineers, including those from manufacturing companies, and others professionally involved in
lighting.

Incandescent lamp: a lamp (fixture) in which light is produced by a filament heated to a high
temperature by electric current.

Indoor Lighting: Any lamp, pendant, or fixture used to illuminate the interior of any structure.

Intensity: The degree or amount of energy or light.

Internally Illuminated: As it relates to signs, any sign which has a light source entirely enclosed within
the sign and not directly visible.
International Dark-Sky Association (IDA, Inc.): A non-profit organization whose goals are to build
awareness of the value of dark skies, and of the need for quality outdoor lighting.

kWh: Kilowatt-hour: A unit of energy equal to the work done by one kilowatt (1000 watts) of power
acting for one hour.

Lamp: A generic term for a manufactured source created to produce optical radiation, meaning
ultraviolet radiation (UV), visible light (VIS), and infrared radiation (IR).

Lamp Life: The average lifespan for a specific type of lamp. Half of the lamps will perform longer than
the average; the others will fail before the average.

LED: Stands for light emitting diode. LED lighting products produce light up to 90% more efficiently than
incandescent light bulbs.

Light Pollution: Brightening of the night sky caused by man-made sources, which has a disruptive effect
on natural cycles and inhibits the observation of stars and planets.




                            Figure XX: Gradient of Light Pollution in the Form of Sky Glow

Light Source: The part of a lighting fixture that produces light, e.g. the bulb, lamp, or chips on board.

Light Spill: Unwanted spillage of light onto adjacent areas including residential properties and ecological
sites.
Light Trespass: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed. See also: Light Spill. Obtrusive light.




                              Figure XX: Light trespass Compared to Adequate Shielding

Lighting Controls: Devices used for either turning lights on and off or for dimming.

Photocells Sensors that turn lights on and off in response to natural light levels. Some advanced modes
can slowly dim or increase the lighting. See also: Adaptive Controls.

Low-Pressure Sodium (LPS) lamp: A discharge lamp where the light is produced by radiation from
sodium vapor at a relatively low partial pressure (about 0.001 torr). LPS is a “tube source”. It is
monochromatic light.

Lumen: A unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted by a uniform point source of one candle
intensity. Lumens refers to the amount of light emitted by a bulb (a bulb with higher lumens outputs
brighter light).




                                             Figure XX: Lumen Example
                             Figure XX: Comparison of Bulbs with Light Output and Cost

    https://georgebrazilplumbingelectrical.com/how-to-choose-the-best-light-bulb-for-your-home/

Luminaire: A complete lighting unit that typically includes components such as a fixture housing,
ballasts, reflector, translucent shield or diffuser, and a lamp or lamps.




                             Figure XX: Comparison of Bulbs with Light Output and Cost

Luminance: the intensity of light emitted from a surface per unit area in a given direction. Units:
candelas per unit area.
Lux: (symbol: lx) is the unit of illuminance or luminous flux per unit area.




                                              Figure XX: Lux Example

Manufacturer’s Catalog Cuts: A publication or other printed material of a lamp or lighting manufacturer
offering visual and technical information about a lighting fixture or lamp.

Mounting height: The height of the fixture or lamp above the ground plane for pole mounted lamps.
The height of the fixture above the elevation identified for the lowest elevation entrance to the
corresponding side of the structure, each structure having an identified front, two sides, and a rear.

Multi-Family Residential Property: Any parcel having a building containing three to ten dwelling units.

N-Z
Optic: The components of a luminaire such as reflectors, refractors, and protectors which make up its
light emitting section.

Outdoor Light Fixture (Outdoor Lighting): An outdoor, electric, or solar powered, illuminating lamp or
similar device used for lighting structures, parking lots, pathways, service canopies, recreational areas,
signs, or other similar outdoor uses. These lighting fixtures may be attached to a building, parking
structure, or sign, or may stand on their own.

Partially Shielded Light Fixture: An outdoor light fixture
constructed and mounted so that the installed fixture emits
most of its light below the horizontal plane. Light emitted
at or above the horizontal plane (sideways or upwards)
shall arise solely from incidental decorative elements or
strongly colored or diffusing materials, such as colored
glass or plastic. Fixtures using spot or flood lamps are
considered partially shielded if the lamps are aimed no
higher than forty-five (45) degrees above the vertical plane
beneath the fixture.
                                 Figure 1: Unshielded versus Shielded Light Fixtures

Pathway Lights: A luminaire, or collection of luminaires, less than eighteen inches (18") in height, lining
one or both sides of an outdoor path or walkway that provides illumination to guide persons along the
outdoor path or walkway.

Photometry: The quantitative measurement of light level and distribution.
Photocell: An electronic device that changes the light output of a luminaire dynamically in response to
the ambient light level around the luminaire.

Pool Lighting: Underwater lighting fixtures provide illumination to all underwater areas of a pool.

Recreational Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate sports fields, ball courts, playgrounds, or similar
outdoor recreational facilities.

Reflector: An optic that achieves control of light by means of reflection (using mirrors).

Refractor: An optic that achieves control of light by means of refraction (using lenses).

Religious Institutions: Property containing a Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other
religious or spiritually-oriented structure(s), including any accessory buildings and uses, where persons
regularly assemble for religious or spiritual purposes and related social events and which building, with
accessory buildings and uses, is maintained, and controlled by a religious body organized to hold
religious ceremonies and purposes.

Security Lights: Lighting designed to illuminate a property or grounds for the purpose of visual security.

Shielding: An opaque material that blocks the transmission of light.

Single-Family, Two-Family Residential, and Duplex Unit Properties: Any parcel within the FR-0.5, FR-1,
FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, and FR-20 zones having a building containing one or two dwelling units.

Skyglow: The brightening of the nighttime sky resulting from the scattering and reflection of artificial
light by moisture and dust particles in the atmosphere. Skyglow is caused by light directed or reflected
upwards or sideways, reducing one’s ability to view the nighttime sky (Error! Reference source not
found.).

Spotlight: A fixture or lamp designed to light a small area very brightly. See the definition of Floodlight.

Stationary Lighting. Lights that are fixed in a non-moving position.

Stray light: Emitted light that falls away from the area where it is needed or wanted. Light trespass.

Task Lighting: Task lighting is used to provide direct light for specific activities without illuminating the
entire area.

Tower: Any monopole, antenna or the like that exceeds eighteen feet (18’) in height.
Unshielded Lighting Fixture: A fixture that allows light to be emitted above the horizontal plane, either
directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture or reflector.




                  Figure XX: Unshielded, Capped, Partially Shielded, and Fully Shielded Fixtures

Vertical Illuminance: The amount of light falling on a vertical surface or plane such as the night sky.

Visibility: The distance one can see as determined by light and weather conditions.

Wallpack: A luminaire, typically affixed to the side of a structure, used for area lighting.
