Open and Public Meetings Act
     Annual Training
    EMIGRATION CANYON
     METRO TOWNSHIP
         COUNCIL
       March 23, 2023
                   Spirit of the Act
• Act Openly
• Make Decisions Openly
• Deliberate Openly
  (the hardest part)
• Conduct the People’s
  Business Openly

• Openly = In Public

                                       Jeff Parker / Florida Today
                    Spirit of the Act
Who has to follow the OPMA?
• Any local administrative,
  advisory, executive, or
  legislative body which:
   – Consists of two or more
     persons
   – Spends, distributes, or is
     supported by tax money
   – Has authority to make
     decisions about the public’s
     business (which has been
     interpreted to include
     advisory groups)
                                        Mr. Lightman / FreeDigitalPhotos.net
              What is a Meeting?
1)   Quorum (3 members).

2) Convene (not chance meetings)

"Meeting" means the convening of a public body, with a quorum present,
   including a workshop or an executive session whether the meeting is held in
   person or by means of electronic communications, for the purpose of
   discussing, receiving comments from the public about, or acting upon a
   matter over which the public body has jurisdiction or advisory power

Email? OK if not sent to quorum or limited to non-substantive matters (i.e.
   scheduling). CAN’T act/deliberate behind the scenes.
IM? Text? Chat? - This also applies.
       What is a Meeting? (cont’d)
Social Events: OK for members to
socialize, just can’t discuss/act
on matters under their official
jurisdiction.
“Meeting after the Meeting”:
Beware of rehashing the meeting
with a quorum.


                                                           Don Landgren Jr. / The Landmark




Conference Call: It’s a meeting if a quorum is involved.
        What is a Meeting? (cont’d)
Remember: Email may be a public
record under GRAMA.
(U.C.A. § 63G-2-103).
• Note: any substantive emails regarding
  Town business are subject to
  GRAMA and OPMA.

Bottom Line: Citizens are entitled not only to know
what government decides, but to observe how and why every
decision is reached. Communication by email is not entirely off-limits,
but all deliberations must be done in public and recorded.
   (U.C.A. § 52-4-210: “Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to restrict a member of
   a public body from transmitting an electronic message to other members of the public
   body at a time when the public body is not convened in an open meeting.”)
              Location of Meeting
The Rule: On the day of
the regularly scheduled
meeting, any work
sessions or closed
sessions must be held
at the regular meeting
location, unless:
   – The regularly scheduled
     meeting is being held                            Parks and Recreation
     elsewhere;
   – There is an emergency or
     other extraordinary circumstances;
   – The meeting is being held electronically; or
   – There is a site visit or traveling tour.
Notice: Must provide public notice of the location.
                 Electronic Meetings
Electronic Meeting: a public meeting convened or conducted by
means of a conference using electronic communications.

   – LIFE UNDER COVID – State Law allows for meetings without an
     anchor location with certain requirements.




                                                            Scott Adams / Dilbert
Reasons meeting may be closed
Only Reasons a Meeting may Be Closed:
   1.   Discussing an individual’s character, professional competence,
        or physical or mental health*
   2.   Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent
        litigation (must be specific, not open ended threat)
   3.   Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, lease or
        sale of real property if public discussion of the transaction
        would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property
        under consideration; or
        prevent the public body from completing the transaction on the
        best possible terms AND for sale
           (a) the public body previously gave public notice that the property would be
                 offered for sale
           (b) the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the public body
                 approves the sale
   4.  Discussions regarding security personnel, devices or systems *
   5.  Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
       misconduct
   *Does not require recording
             OPMA Notice Requirements
Under OPMA:
• Must provide notice at least 24 hours before the meeting.
• Notice must include the agenda, date, time, and place of meeting.
    – Agenda must be specific enough for public to know what will be discussed.
At a minimum, notice must be:
• Posted on the Utah Public Notice Website; and
• Posted at Town Offices;
• Published in media is met by
  posting on Public Notice Website




                                                                 Charlie Daniel / News-Sentinel
                     OPMA Notice
OPMA requires:
• notice must be given at least 24 hours before the meeting
• And state the agenda, date, time and place
   – agenda must be with enough specificity to know what will be
     discussed
• If an item is not listed on the agenda, the council may
  discuss it at the meeting but cannot take any action on it
  until it is presented at a meeting with proper notice.
NOTICE MUST BE (AT A MINIMUM)
1. posted at the principal office of the public body or at the
   location of the meeting AND
2. posted on the Utah Public Notice Website AND
3. given to at least one local general circulation newspaper OR
   local media correspondent, OR posted on the Utah Public
   Notice Website
              Public Comment
• “Open” means the public must be allowed to come
  and watch but no requirement to allow public to
  comment (in contrast to a public hearing, where
  opportunity for public comment is required)
   – Congress in action on the floor – open but no public input

• Topics not on the agenda can be raised by the public
  and discussed as long as no final action is taken on
  that topic
                 Minutes and Recordings
Required for all public meetings.
• Except for site visits.

Recordings: Must be unedited, of entire meeting, clearly
labeled, and available to the public.
• Must be made available within three business days.
• Public has right to record meeting, if they can do so without disrupting.

Minutes: The official record of the meeting.
• Must be approved by the body.
• Can be released to the public before body approval, as long as they are
  marked “unapproved.”
• Draft minutes must be available to public within a 30 days after the
  meeting (and within three days of their approval).
• Must include:
    –   Substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided
    –   Names people giving testimony and substance of their testimony
    –   Individual votes
    –   Any additional information requested to be added by a member of the body
               Emergency Meetings
Notice: Must give best
notice practicable as
to the time and place
of the emergency
meeting, as well as
the topics to be
considered there.
• Must attempt to notify
  all members of the body.                              The Lord of the Rings




Convening: Majority of the body must agree to hold the
meeting because of an “emergency or urgent matter.”
Minutes: Should include a statement of the unforeseen
circumstances that made the meeting necessary.
            Violations of the OPMA
What happens if someone breaks the open-meetings laws?
• a member of a public body who knowingly or intentionally violates OR
  who knowingly or intentionally abets or advises a violation of any of the
  closed meeting provisions of this chapter is guilty of a class B
  misdemeanor.
• Action taken in the meeting is voidable if the body violated the Act.
