                     Emergency Notification System Policy

  I.      POLICY
          It is the Emigration Canyon Metro Township’s (“Township”) mission to use the
          Emergency Notification System (“System”) in accordance with the procedures set forth
          in this document to maintain the integrity and usefulness of the system, while limiting
          overuse.

 II.      PURPOSE

       A. The purpose of this document is to establish policy and procedures governing the use of
          the System.

       B. The System shall be used for real-time communications to notify citizens and business
          owners (referred to as “the public”) in the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
          Communications may include, but are not limited to:
          • Evacuations
          • Missing and endangered children/persons
          • Police activity
          • Road closures
          • Severe weather warnings
          • Wildfire
          • Waterline break or repair
          • Changes to garbage pick up days
          • Marathon Notices

III.      DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM
          Emigration Canyon Metro Township has implemented a rapid notification response
          system for emergency notifications to the public. The System has the ability to notify
          large amounts of people in a short period of time. As of the date this policy was
          published, the System used by the Township is CodeRED, though the Township reserves
          the right to change systems in the future. Should a change in system occur, this policy
          will be updated as needed.
          The CodeRED System
          CodeRED populates each customer’s contact list by drawing from multiple sources, then
          geocoding the records to complete the database. The sources can include company-
          supplied data, customer-supplied data, 911 data and public enrollment data. Company-
          supplied data consists of national, residential and business phone data. Customer-
          supplied data can include utility billing data, business license data and any other
          customer data. Customer-supplied 911 data includes 911 data supplied by the customer.
          Public enrollment is comprised of entries from residents and businesses that provide
       their own contact information on the public enrollment page. Data collection and
       management are essential components of a successful emergency notification program.
       To help maintain accurate records, CodeRED offers each customer a web page (“public
       enrollment portal”) where staff and residents can go to update their own contact
       information, keeping it as accurate as possible. This helps minimize sending messages to
       outdated contact information and putting residents and staff at greater risk in a crisis.
       The system will also deliver routine reminders with links to the public enrollment portal.
       This feature streamlines the process of maintaining accurate information and saves
       valuable staff time.

IV.    USE OF NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
       The Township has the ability to issue alerts on behalf of law enforcement, fire service,
       public services, emergency medical services, and other collaborating organizations.
       However, if a non-emergency public announcement is needed, the requester must follow
       certain guidelines. Specifically, the notice must be submitted in writing and approved by
       authorized users. Additionally, a notification period of 48 hours must be given.
       Approval from a minimum of two authorized users is required if the Township intends to
       utilize the system for this purpose.

 V.    AUTHORIZED USERS
       Only trained and authorized personnel shall have access to launch a message through the
       System. Authorized users are selected by the Township. These individuals will be
       referred to as “Emergency Service Coordinators” for the purpose of this policy. The
       positions authorized by the Township Manager as Emergency Service Coordinators are
       as follows:
       1.      Mayor
       2.      Council Members

VI.    TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
       Authorized uses must be trained in the system operation. The training will be developed
       based on the vendor’s recommendations and the specifics of the system as it is installed.

VII.   ACTIVATION PROCEDURE
       •    An Authorized user will determine the content of the Emergency Notification by
            assessing the situation and, if appropriate, selecting the relevant pre-approved
            template message for the Emergency Notification or drafting a message specific to
            the situation.
       •    Emergency Notification status updates will be made when new information or
            instructions are available.
       •    An “All Clear” notification indicates the emergency situation has been contained. All
            Clear notifications must be approved by the current Incident Commander on-scene at
            the incident.
VIII.   SYSTEM TESTING
        •   Regular system testing is vital to ensure the system's readiness to operate when
            necessary. The testing procedures can be modified, but they should incorporate the
            following minimum requirement: conducting a full system check, with a
            recommendation to perform it annually.
