                        EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
                            EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION

                                          No. 1 of 2023

                 PROCLAMATION DECLARING A LOCAL EMERGENCY

Pursuant to Utah Code§ 53-2a-205, 53-2a-208(1) and 53-2a-209(1) the Mayor of Emigration
Canyon Metro Township has power to declare a local state of emergency for Township.

The 2022-2023 winter season has resulted in historical snowfall and water equivalent within the
Township. The resulting snowpack and geography of the Township places occupants and
property within the Township at significantly elevated risk to human life, property and
structures, and access in/out of the Township via public roadways.

The weather forecasts project significantly warming temperatures which will melt the existing
snowpack and change its composition to increase the risk of avalanches and mudslides. Current
and forecast rising temperature significantly increase the likelihood of destructive slides and
flooding reaching occupied buildings thereby threatening life and property.

The Township Mayor finds that these conditions create a state of local emergency as
contemplated in Utah Code§ 52-2a-208(3) and makes the following proclamation declaring a
local emergency:

1.      Nature of the Local Emergency. A local emergency exists for Emigration Canyon Metro
Township due to avalanche threat and this local emergency threatens and could affect the
entirety of Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

2. Area that is Affected or Threatened. The area that is affected or threatened is the majority of
Emigration Canyon Metro Township where human life is located.

3. Conditions which caused the Emergency. The conditions which caused the emergency are the
unprecedented snowfall with a high water content, significantly warming temperatures, and
flooding that threaten human life, property and structures, and access in/out of the Township via
public roadways.

4. Emergency Powers and Operations. The emergency powers and operations of Emigration
Canyon Metro Township are hereby invoked, and Emigration Canyon Metro Township's
personnel and resources are ordered and authorized to perform all functions authorized by
federal, state, and local law to address this local emergency.

5. Term. This proclamation shall take effect immediately and will be ongoing for thirty (30)
days unless an extension is authorized by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Municipal
Council by resolution unless rescinded earlier.
6. Assistance. Emigration Canyon Metro Township is authorized to request all assistance
available with respect to this local emergency from all federal, state, and local sources and
authorized to activate all mutual aid agreements.

7. Filing and Dissemination. This proclamation will be filed with the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Clerk and will be delivered to Salt Lake County.



          Dated this 12th day of April, 2023.

                                                EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP



                                                Joe Smolka, Mayor

Attest:


Lannie Chapman, Salt Lake County Clerk
