                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




               Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
                                      Public Meeting Agenda

                     Thursday, May 11, 2023 8:30 A.M.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/meet/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

Anchor Location        Emigration Canyon Fire Station
                       5025 Emigration Canyon Road
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance, or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                      BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Approval of the February 16, March 16, March 24, and April 13, 2023 Planning
      Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Other Business Items. (As needed)

                                      PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2022-000715 – Emigration Canyon Planning Commission will be holding a public hearing
to hear public comments on recommended amendments to the Emigration Canyon Municipal

May 11, 2023                                  Page 1 of 2                 AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting. The proposed ordinance language updates will update the
existing language within the Municipal Code as a subsection of the current Chapter 19.73 Foothills
and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards. Addressing Night Lighting Standards was
identified as an action item from the 2021 Emigration Canyon General Plan. They are intended to
help maintain the rural atmosphere and community character of the Metro Township, protect
ecological conditions and nocturnal wildlife within the Metro Township, maintain nighttime
safety, utility, and security, and encourage lighting practices that promote energy conservation.
Planner: Matt Starley (Motion/Voting)

                                          ADJOURN




May 11, 2023                                Page 2 of 2             AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application.

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



May 11, 2023                                            AGENDA – EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               EMIGRATION PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Thursday, April 13, 2023 8:30 a.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 27 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                     found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                      Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Wallace

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                 Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
     Andrew Wallace (Chair)                   x
                                                                                Wendy Gurr                                  x
        Alex Pacanowsky                                 x
                                                                               Jim Nakamura                                 x
            Jim Karkut                        x
                                                                               Morgan Julian
          Dale Berreth                        x
                                                                                Matt Starley                                x
     Tim Harpst (Vice Chair)                  x
                                                                               Kayla Mauldin
           Jodi Geroux                        x
                                                                                 Adam Long


                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 8:36 a.m.

    1) Dark Sky Ordinance language discussed and reviewed. Discussion on the dissemination of
       Ordinance Language to the Metro Township Council for a recommendation to proceed with the
       Public Hearing. Planner: Matt Starley

        Mr. Starley advised he received Mr. Long’s comments back this morning. Commissioners and staff
        had a brief discussion regarding the following:

        19.73.112 Lighting Modifications and building permits for existing non-compliant light fixtures and
        replacement.

        19.73.118 Lighting Plan required subject to 19.73.112.D regarding an application for a building
        permit.

        19.73.119 Appeal for Exemption regarding procedural steps and applicants demonstration of an
        undue hardship regarding the lighting plan and whether it would be a Variance or Appeal.


Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – April 13, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 1 of 2
        Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the staff report comments, Recreational
        Lighting on playing fields and court areas curfew, proposals and approval, font size, minimize and
        prevent light trespass in unacceptable/acceptable, copyrights on graphic figures, graphic language
        change from structure to building, BUG Rating, pamphlet and distribution, and adding a note to
        Municode advising the public.

        Commissioner Berreth excused himself at 10:30am.

    2) Other Business Items. (As needed)
       No other business items to discuss.


Commissioner Wallace motioned to adjourn.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 11:03 a.m.




Emigration Metro Township Planning Commission – April 13, 2023 – Meeting Summary               Page 2 of 2
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        matstarley@msd.utah.gov




               DARK SKY ORDINANCE | PROGRESS REPORT
                         Part of the UPDATE OF MUNICIPAL CODE:
                                 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
Public Body: Emigration Canyon Planning Commission
MSD Planner: Matthew Starley, Long Range Planner
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Recommend language to the council for adoption with required
revisions.

                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Emigration Canyon Metro Township has identified in the Community Values section of the General Plan that
environmental sustainability & protection of the natural environment are important to community members,
and the identity of the Metro Township. The expressed aim of the General Plan is to “maintain or enhance
environmental sustainability and stewardship now and for future generations; this includes but is not limited to
features such as water quality, open space, noise management, dark skies, air quality, biodiversity, and climate
resilience.” pg. 30-31

Utah Department of Workforce Services (UDWS) has distributed a “Guidance & Best Practices: Dark Sky
Planning” manual intended to introduce Elected Officials and their communities to dark sky planning and
concepts. In this document, DWS established the importance of night sky planning by describing some of the
issues associated with light pollution.

         Light pollution is a threat because of the negative effects on humans and the environment as
         well as long-term consequences, such as biodiversity, economic, and cultural loss, that cannot
           easily be reversed. However, in contrast to other types of pollution, the negative effects of
                            light pollution can be mitigated easily and cost-effectively.
                                                          UDWS, Guidance & Best Practices: Dark Sky Planning, pg. 6

To mitigate these potential negative effects, Emigration Canyon planning staff have engaged with the Planning
Commission to develop a more robust Night Sky Ordinance that is intended to update the existing municipal
code 19.73.110, Night Lighting. Regular progress reports have been made to the Planning Commission and
feedback has been integrated. The draft shared in coordination with this report, Emigration Canyon MT_Dark
Sky Ordinance Draft, will potentially constitute the final to be shared with the Planning Commission (“PC”).

For this Draft, MSD staff have integrated the thoughtful comments made by PC members. Quick highlights to
look for in this draft:
1) The definitions section has been bolstered.
    a) Issues of contradictory or undefined terminology have been corrected wherever identified.
    b) Two main resources were utilized to tailor existing and suggested definitions.
         i) https://www.darksky.org/our-work/grassroots-advocacy/resources/glossary/
         ii) https://www.ies.org/definitions/lamp/
2) We have adopted a “footcandle per square foot of hardscape” approach to measuring and regulating
   lighting.
   a) Example to the right: 1-footcandle average with 0.1-footcandle minimum 6-
        ft. wide path of egress.
   b) This presents the opportunity to regulate Light Trespass as a measure of
        footcandle at the property line. The example below shows
        recommendations from California




      i) Note: Emigration Canyon would match the Zone 2 description in the majority of instances.
3) Document sections have been restructured according to comments made, as well as to reduce redundancy.


                               GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
Language about protecting and promoting the health and long-term sustainability of the natural environment in
the Canyon is a consistent theme throughout the General Plan document. There are also many instances in
which the connection between the quality of the night sky environment and ecological and community health
are identified. Updates to the dark sky ordinance existing are supported by the General Plan Work Program.
The following is an excerpt from the General Plan Work Program, which outlines the creation and enactment of
a Dark Sky Ordinance as an Immediate and Ongoing action item.

Chapter 5: Environment Work Program (Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022 pg. 144-145)
   • Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional and diverse.
            o Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal
                wildlife.
                     Actions
                          • a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky-compliant light-pollution control
                              ordinance.
                     Lead(s)
                          • MSD Planning and Development Services, PC, EC Metro Township
                     Timeline
                          • Immediate and ongoing
                     Cost
                          • Staff time
                     Metric
                          • Ordinance enacted
                       Resources
                           • See also objective 2.3.2a


                                    LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
Suggested updates to the zoning ordinance would apply to all areas within the Metro Township. The intent is to
control the use of night lighting between the hours of one hour after dusk until 6:00 am the following morning.
It is the opinion of the planning staff that controlling nighttime lighting use through the update of the existing
Night Sky Ordinance will support the current land use expressed within the canyon by reinforcing the naturalistic
and rural character of the community.

Unique standards exist for properties containing:
   • Residential | Single-Family Detached Housing Units
   • Residential | Multi-Family Housing Units
   • Commercial and Religious Institutional Uses

                        ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION

Adoption of the Dark Sky Ordinance would potentially create non-conforming properties within Emigration
Canyon Metro Township. However, the ordinance, as drafted, is clear that existing development would not need
to come into compliance with the new standards until five (5) years after the adoption date of the ordinance.
New development would be required to meet all adopted standards.


                                     NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
At this point, staff has not received any feedback from the public regarding the Night Sky Ordinance update.
Following the public hearing on May 11th, 2023, the Planning Commission may discuss and recommend
incorporation of feedback received from the public.


                                 REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE

A review by Emigration Canyon’s attorney and the MSD’s land use attorneys has been completed prior to this
recommendation for adoption.

The following is a transcript of the communications that we have had during this process with
lighting experts.
Vellachi Ganesan kindly reached out to her colleagues for additional information regarding your questions below.
I’ll pass it into this email:

Here are Rick Utting’s (from Clanton&Associates) thoughts in response to the follow-up questions from Matt

Starley:
Commercial Properties – I would rather see a limit to the non-shielded contribution and a hardscape calculation
that exclusive structure square footage. I typically draft a 20% limit of the total site lumens coming from non-
shielded sources. Regarding structure square footage, an example of why to exclude structure square footage is
an industrial application where the structure might be 100,000 sf. You don’t necessarily want to offer those
100,000 lumens to the outdoor space just because it was a big factory. The MLO Hardscape method allows for
1.25 lumens/sf for Lz1 and 2.5 lumens/sf for Lz2 applications. Perhaps this would yield Emigration Canyon the
light they need if they exclude the structure’s square footage.

Residential properties – Nancy and I developed the following chart and narrative for residential land use. We
like it better than others we have seen. We also don’t feel like it’s appropriate to penalize apartment (multi-
family) living with more exterior light just because of density. They need to sleep too. So, we give more light
when needed for common areas and parking lots.
          A) Light Output: The upper lumen limits listed below should not be the design goal. The design goal should be to
             use the minimum light levels that meet the requirements of the task. The total allowable site lumens (initial)
             for a residential property is limited to:

                                             Total Site Lumens Allowed
                                                     Residential
                                           Property Size               LZ1   LZ2
                                 Single Family; 1 acre+ (43,560sf+) 12,000   n/a
                                 Multi-Family; Per 1 acre (43,560sf) 12,000 20,000
                                  Single Family; 3/4 acre (32,670sf) 9,000   n/a
                                  Single Family; 1/2 acre (21,780sf) 6,000   n/a
                                   Single Family; 1/5 acre (8,812sf) 3,000 5,000
                                            Mobile Home; (5,500sf) 2,000 4,000
                                  Single Family; 1/10 acre (4,356sf) 2,000 4,000
                                  Single Family; 1/20 acre (2,178sf) 1,500 3,000
               1.    An additional 3,000 lumens for each Guest House and Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) is allowed on
                     properties larger than (2) acres.
               2.    An additional 300 lumens per parking lot space is allowed for Multi-Family developments.
Lux at the property line - I’m glad to hear they are considering interior spill light for their light trespass
calculation. However, 10 lux is still very high. The following chart is used in RP-8 and is the basis for our
Lighting Zone analysis. The main difference is that this chart is for horizontal illuminance at the property line. I
would think most Emigration Canyon applications are Lz1 and Lz2, so 1 or 3lux would be more
appropriate. Having a 10 lux vertical illuminance would align with a high Lz3 or low Lz4.

                                             Property Line Light Trespass
                                                 Illuminance Limits
                                                          LZ0     LZ1 LZ2           LZ3
                                        Footcandles (fc) 0.05 0.1 0.3               0.8
                                                Lux (lx) 0.5       1      3          8

Feel free to reach out with any questions or clarifications.

Kindly
Vellachi
______________________________________________
Vellachi Ganesan MIES, IDA
Clanton & Associates, Inc. | Lighting Design & Engineering
Senior Lighting Designer II | D: 720.403.8487




                                        PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Previous drafts have relied heavily on the similar ordinances drafted and adopted in Moab, Torrey, Eagle
Mountain, and Helper City, Utah, as well as several guidelines produced by the International Dark Sky
Organization. Staff also received guidance and advice from Dark Sky experts within the planning community
here in Northern Utah. The current version of the Ordinance has been adjusted to reflect an approach to total
allowable light use calculations more like that utilized in Fort Collins and Boulder, Colorado municipal code.
These cities are recommended by the expert commentators referred to previously. These changes reflect, in the
opinion of the staff, an improvement to the previous “net acre” calculation method employed in the first draft.

In analyzing the ordinance as drafted, staff finds that:
II   The Metro Township has the authority to regulate lighting standards through the municipal powers granted
     to it in State Code;
III Drafting of the ordinance has involved extensive input from the Planning Commission, including discussion
    at meetings throughout 2023;
IV The ordinance advances the vision and goals of the adopted Emigration Canyon General Plan; and
V    The ordinance incorporates best practices in light-pollution prevention.


The following extracts regarding Lighting standards.

Footcandle Safety tolerances
PG&E Outdoor Lighting Safety requirements - Initial footcandle requirement for NFPA 101 compliance
      - Egress lighting – 1-foot candle average

Quantity of Illumination {IES Recommended Light levels}

     Environmental Lighting Zones
     Zone                                 Lighting Situation                Description
     LZ4                                  High Ambient                      Human vision adapted to high
                                                                            light levels
                                                                            Higher levels mandatory for
                                                                            safety/security
                                                                            High levels also provided for
                                                                            convenience and performance
     LZ3                                  Moderately High Ambient           Human vision adapted to
                                                                            moderately high light levels
                                                                            Higher levels desired for safety
                                                                            and security
                                                                            Higher levels also provided for
                                                                            convenience and performance
     LZ2                                  Moderate Ambient                  Human vision adapted to
                                                                            moderate light levels
                                                                            Moderate levels desired for safety
                                                                            and security
                                                                            Moderate levels also provided for
                                                                            convenience and performance
     LZ1                                  Low Ambient                       Lighting may effect the natural
                                                                            environment or ecological balance
                                                                            Human vision adapted to low light
                                                                            levels
                                                                            Lighting provided primarily for
                                                                            safety and security
     LZ0                                  No Ambient                        Lighting will adversely effect the
                                                                            environment and ecological
                                                                            balance
                                                                            Human activity importance
                                                                            subordinate to nature and the
                                                                            environment
                                                                            Human vision adapted to
                                                                            darkness, expectation is little or no
                                                                            lighting



    Outdoor Activity Levels
    Activity Category                  Description of Activities            Space/Area Types
    HIGH ACTIVITY                      High volume of pedestrians &        Entertainment/shopping districts
                                       vehicles                             Pro sports venues
                                       Constant or frequent swings to      Transportation hubs
                                       very high volume                     Active university campus
                                       Typical of large urban areas and
                                       centers
    MEDIUM ACTIVITY                    Moderate volume of pedestrians      Civic/cultural districts
                                       &vehicles                            Collage campus
                                       Constant amount of some activity    Office complex
                                       for extended periods                 Hotels/motels
                                       Typical of small towns and          Active parks and public plazas
                                       suburban (moderate) population
                                       centers
    LOW ACTIVITY                       Low to very low volume              Residential neighborhoods
                                       pedestrians & vehicles               Small apartments and commercial
                                       Little nighttime activity over      establishments
                                       extended periods.                    Outdoor open area resorts/parks
                                       Characteristic of some suburban &
                                       most rural population centers




IES Illumination zones for Light Trespass.
IES zones are based on the four environmental zones established by CIE.

 Maximum allowed trespass footcandles measured eye level perpendicular to line of site. Lighting Zone

                             Description                 Pre-Curfew Limit               Post-Curfew Limit
                                                         (Max fc)                       (Max fc) *1
 Zone E1                     Intrinsic dark landscapes   0.1 fc                         0.0 fc
 Zone E2                     Low ambient brightness      0.3 fc                         0.1 fc
                             areas
 Zone E3                     Medium ambient              0.8 fc                         0.2 fc
                             brightness
 Zone E4                     High ambient brightness     1.5 fc                         0.6 fc
                             areas

IES Illumination zones for Light Levels.

          Quantity of Illumination [IES Recommended Light Levels] EXAMPLE OF RANGE RECOMMENDED
                                   ILLUMINANCEIESHANDBOOK 10THADDITION
   Areas,Function or Task(Visual           LZ0 FC*2 *3   LZ1 FC*2*3   LZ2 FC*2 *3 LZ3 FC*2 *3 LZ4 FC*2 *3
   Age 25 -65)*1                          H         V    H        V    H       V   H       V   H      V
   Ext. EntranceCanopied(high
                                           1.0     0.6  1.5      0.8  2.0     1.0 3.0     1.5 4.0    2.0
   activity)
   Ext. EntranceCanopied(medium
                                      0.6     0.2    0.8     0.4     1.0    0.6    1.5     0.8      2.0   1.0
   activity)
   Ext. EntranceCanopied(low
                                      0.2      0     0.4     0.1     0.6    0.2    0.8     0.4      1.0   0.6
   activity)


Recreational Lighting Standards.
    •    Tennis Industry Lighting Standards
            o Class I: Professional level: 125-foot candles / 1250 lux.
            o Class II: College and medium level: 75–100-foot candles / 750-1000 lux.
            o Class III: High school and private clubs: 50–75-foot candles / 500-750 lux.
            o Class IV: Recreational: 30-50-foot candles / 300-500 lux.

Recommended Foot Candles for Outdoors and Exterior Parking
The most common recommendation for parking lot foot candles is horizontal illuminance of minimum 0.2-foot
candles, vertical illuminance of minimum 0.1-foot candles, and uniformity ratio of 20:1 maximum to minimum.

        Entrances                                                    5 fc
        Parking Garage – Basic                                       1 fc
        Parking Garage – Ramps                                       1-2 fc
        Parking Lots                                                 2-5 fc
        Vehicle Storage                                              2-5 fc
                     https://www.ledlightingsupply.com/blog/recommended-foot-candle-chart




                             PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

  The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
  recommend the Ordinance Language for adoption by the Metro Township Council with any revisions as
  determined necessary following the public hearing.




                        DOCUMENT COMMENT AND RESPONSE HISTORY

The following Comments were received from Jim Karkut

19.73.111 Definitions

Basement - Change "An area of a building" to "The area of a building."

BUG Rating - The definition ends with the phrase "at high angles." Suggestion - add a parenthesis
indicating what we consider to be "high angles."

Figure 02 - Replace the word "STRENGTH" with "INTENSITY." Why - because the definition of
Candela uses the word "intensity", and other places in the ordinance use "intensity" rather than
"strength."
Cut-off angle, of a light fixture - Delete the hyphen in "cut-off." Delete the comma after "angle."
(Note how the next definition uses "cutoff")

Full-cutoff fixture - Question: Does the definition need its ending phrase "and limited to a value
not exceeding 10% of lamp lumens at or about 80 [degrees] above nadir"?

Glare - Question: Does the definition need the phrase in it of "visual performance"? I ask because
I am not sure what that phrase means.

Lumen. Change the definition to read: "A measurement of light intensity. One lumen is
approximately equal to the amount of light emitted by one candle at a one-foot distance. A light
source with higher lumens emits brighter light."

Religious Institutions Property - Change "accessory structures" to "accessory structure(s)."

Security Lights - Delete the word "visual" from "visual security."

19.73.112.C Amortization - To make the language of the first sentence of C consistent with the
language in A and B, change the first sentence to read: "All non-compliant exterior lighting fixtures
shall be brought into compliance no later than 5 years from the effective date of this Chapter."

19.73.112.D.1.b - Near the end of the sentence, replace "the conditions outlined in" with "the
requirements of".

19.73.112.D.2 - Insert the word "fixture" after "replacement" in the phrase "the replacement shall
comply with the requirements of this Chapter."

19.73.112.E.1 - In the last phrase at the end of the second sentence, change "requirements" to
"requirement." That makes the word consistent with the use of "requirement" in the first phrase of
the sentence.

19.73.113.A.1.a.i - Replace the word "clear" with "specific."

19.73.113.F - In the lead-in sentence, change "All lighting identified in this Section" to "All lighting
described in this Section."

19.73.113.F.4.a - Change "governing agency" to "government agency."

19.73.114.A - Note that B and C provide that lighting turned off at dusk or 10:00 p.m. shall remain
off until 6:00 a.m. the following morning. It seems like it would be a good idea to state something
along similar lines for Commercial and Religious Institutions Properties, One possible way would be
to end the sentence in A.1 with "within one hour after closing, and until 6:00 a.m. the following
morning."

19.73.115.D.1 - In the second sentence, change "standards" to requirements." (I recognize that
some internal headings use "Standards", but I like the word "requirements" better when used in
sentences)

19.73.115.D.1.c - Change "standards" to requirements."

19.73.118.A.1 - I recommend that the last sentence in 1 ("All applications may be subject to review
and action by the Director or designee") be deleted because it is inconsistent with the preceding
sentence that requires all of the listed applications to be submitted with a Lighting Plan for the
Director or designee to review.

19.73.118.A.2a. iii - Add a period after "electrical details"

19.73.119.A - Change the heading "Appeal for Exemption" to "Appeal." This is because the
possible situations in A cover more possibilities than the applicant obtaining an exemption.

19.73.119.A.1.b - Insert a comma after the phrase "does not approve the proposed lighting plan"

19.73.119.B.1.a - Change "Failing to meet light curfew standards as outlined in section 19.73.114"
to "Failing to comply with the night lighting limitations set forth in Section 19.73.114."

19.73.119.C.2.a - Add the phrase "and adjacent properties" to the end of the sentence.

19.73.119.C.2.a.i - 2.a grants the Director or designee the authority, in certain cases, to impose
certain steps to mitigate the effects of light pollution, etc. However, the phrase in 2.a.1 states a
totally different concept - that a property owner has an obligation to take certain steps to minimize
unintended effects of the property owner's outdoor lighting on the night sky environment and
adjacent properties. I like that idea, but it seems to be overbroad, and in the wrong place.

19.73.119.D.1 Insert "for" before "each day of violation after the expiration of the 30-day abatement period ...."

The Following Comments were received from Tim Harpst.
Cut-off seems to me to be the appropriate spelling in the def of cut-off angle, of a light fixture.
I think the definition of full cut-off fixture is good as is because it provides more clarification.

I like "visual Performance" in the def of glare.

In 19.73.119.C.2.a - Instead of adding the phrase "and adjacent properties" to the end of the sentence, I suggest
adding "in general and particularly upon adjacent properties." I think this would be more clear.

In 19.73.119.D.1 I would suggest replacing the word "and" with the word "for" before "each day of violation
 after the expiration of the 30-day abatement period . . . ."
Emigration Canyon Metro Township

DARK SKY ORDINANCE | MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING

19.73.110 – Purpose.
A. The purposes of this Chapter are to:
    1. Encourage lighting practices that minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and sky glow to
       preserve and enhance views of the night sky.
    2. Maintain the rural atmosphere and community character of the Metro Township.
    3. Protect ecological conditions and nocturnal wildlife within the Metro Township.
    4. Maintain nighttime safety, utility, and security.
    5. Encourage lighting practices that promote energy conservation.



19.73.111 – Definitions.
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words, phrases, and terms used herein shall have the meanings
assigned to them by this section:

Accent Lighting: Lighting of building surfaces, landscape features, statues, and similar items for the
purpose of decoration or ornamentation, or lighting that does not contribute to the safety or security of
residents, guests, employees, or customers on a property.

Adaptive Controls: Devices such as motion sensors, timers, and dimmers used in concert with outdoor
lighting equipment to vary the intensity or duration of the operation of lighting.

Ambient light: The general overall level of lighting in an area.

Backlight: All the light emanating behind a light fixture.

Ballast: A device used with a discharge lamp to obtain the necessary voltage, current, and/or waveform
for starting and operating the lamp.

Basement: An area of the building having its floor below ground level on all sides.

Brightness: Strength of the sensation that results from viewing surfaces from which the light comes to
the eye.

BUG Rating: A BUG Rating stands for backlight, uplight, and glare. Backlight (B) is the light directed
behind the light fixture, uplight (U) is any light directed upward above the horizontal plane of the light
fixture, and glare (G) is the amount of light emitted from the light fixture at high angles.
                 Figure 01: BUG Ratings (Adapted from City of Denver Department of Public Works 2023:
https://www.denvergov.org/files/assets/public/doti/documents/standards/pwes-012.2-street_lighting_design_guidelines.pdf)




Bulb or lamp: The source of electric light. To be distinguished from the whole assembly (see light
fixture).

Candela (cd): The intensity of light emitted from a fixture in a certain direction.




    Figure 02: Candela (Adapted from Barco 2023 https://www.barco.com/en/support/knowledge-base/3736-what-is-the-
                                        difference-between-cdm2-lux-and-lumens)

Commercial Property: Any parcel zoned C-1 Commercial, C-V Commercial, or C-2 Commercial Zone.

Constant Lighting. Lighting that does not flash, blink, strobe, or otherwise emit bright bursts of light.
Correlated Color Temperature (CCT, Color Temperature): A specification of the color appearance of the
light emitted by a lamp, relating its color to the color of light from a reference source when heated to a
particular temperature, measured in degrees Kelvin (K).




Figure 03: Correlated Color Temperature (adapted from Tachyon Light 2023 https://tachyonlight.com/what-is-correlated-color-
                                                      temperature/)

Cut-off angle, of a light fixture: The angle, measured up from the nadir (i.e. straight down), between the
vertical axis and the first line of sight at which the bulb or lamp is not visible.

Diffuser: A device used to distribute light from a source.

Dimmer: A device for varying the brightness of electric light.

Direct Illumination: Illumination resulting from light emitted directly from a lamp or reflector. This does
not include light reflected from other surfaces, such as the ground or building faces.

Director: The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director of Planning and Development
Services or planning staff as so designated.

Dusk: The darker part of twilight. Timetables identifying specific hours for dusk on any given day are
located at: https://www.gaisma.com/en/location/salt-lake-city-utah.html.

Efficiency: A measure of the effective or useful output of a system compared to the input to the system.

Energy (radiant energy): Unit is erg, or joule, or kWh.

Facade lighting: The illumination of the exterior of a building. (See also Accent Lighting.)

Fixture Lumens: A light fixture’s total light output after passing through the optics in that fixture.

Fixture Watts: The total power consumed by a fixture. This includes the power consumed by the
lamp(s) and ballast(s).
 Figure 04: Watts to Lumens Relationship (adapted from Standard Products Inc 2023 https://www.standardpro.com/how-to-
                                                     measure-light/)

Floodlight: A fixture designed to “flood” a well-defined area with light.

Footcandle: A footcandle is a measurement of light intensity. One footcandle is defined as enough light
to illuminate a one-foot square located one foot from the light source with one lumen of light.




   Figure 05: Footcandle (adapted from Standard Products Inc 2023 https://www.standardpro.com/how-to-measure-light/)

Full-cutoff fixture (Fully Shielded Fixture): An outdoor light fixture constructed and mounted so that the
installed fixture emits no light (zero intensity) at or above horizontal (90° above nadir) and limited to a
value not exceeding 10% of lamp lumens at or above 80° above nadir.
  Figure 06: Examples of Unacceptable and Acceptable Light Fixtures (Adapted from International Dark-Sky Association 2023
                                               https://www.darksky.org/)

Glare: The visual sensation caused by excessive brightness, and which causes annoyance, discomfort, or
a loss in visual performance or visibility.




 Figure 07: Glare (adapted from National Geographic 2023 https://www.nationalgeographic.com/science/article/nights-are-
                             getting-brighter-earth-paying-the-price-light-pollution-dark-skies?)

Hardscape: Any non-living horizontal site element, including but not limited to patios, decks, walkways,
sidewalks, driveways, and steps.

House-side Shield: Opaque material applied to a fixture to block the light from illuminating a residence
or other structure being protected from light trespass.

Illuminance: Light level measured in footcandles, lux, or lumens.

Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA): The professional society of lighting
engineers, including those from manufacturing companies, and others professionally involved in
lighting.
Incandescent lamp: A lamp in which light is produced by a filament heated to a high temperature by an
electric current.

Indoor Lighting: Any lamp, pendant, or fixture used to illuminate the interior of any structure.

Intensity: The degree or amount of energy or light.

Internally Illuminated: As it relates to signs, any sign which has a light source entirely enclosed within
the sign and not directly visible.

International Dark-Sky Association (IDA, Inc.): A non-profit organization whose goals are to build
awareness of the value of dark skies, and of the need for quality outdoor lighting.

kWh (Kilowatt-hour): A measure of electrical energy equivalent to a power consumption of 1,000 watts
for one hour.

Lamp: A generic term for a manufactured source created to produce optical radiation, meaning
ultraviolet radiation (UV), visible light (VIS), and infrared radiation (IR).

Lamp Life: The average lifespan for a specific type of lamp.

LED: Stands for Light Emitting Diode. LED lighting products produce light up to 90% more efficiently than
incandescent light bulbs.

Light Pollution: Brightening of the night sky caused by man-made sources which has a disruptive effect
on natural cycles and inhibits the observation of stars and planets.

Light Fixture (Luminaire): A complete lighting unit that typically includes components such as a fixture
housing, ballast, reflector, shield or diffuser, and a lamp or lamps.




       Figure 08: Components of a light fixture (adapted from Illinois Coalition for Responsible Outdoor Lighting 2023
                                       http://www.illinoislighting.org/fixture2.html)

Light Source: The part of a light fixture that produces light, e.g., the bulb, lamp, or diode.

Light Spill: Unwanted spillage of light onto adjacent areas including residential properties and ecological
sites. (See also: Light Trespass.)
Light Trespass: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed. (See also: Light Spill.)




              Figure 09: Light Trespass Compared to Adequate Shielding (adapted from E School Today 2023
                                 https://eschooltoday.com/learn/types-of-light-pollution/)

Lighting Controls: Devices used for either turning lights on and off or for dimming. Photocell Sensors
automatically turn lights on and off in response to natural light levels. Some advanced modes can slowly
dim or increase the lighting level. See also: Adaptive Controls.

Lumen: A measurement of light intensity approximately equal to the amount of light emitted by one
candle at a one-foot distance. A light source with higher lumens emits brighter light.
              Figure 10: Comparison of bulb types, lumens, and watts (adapted from Efficiency Maine 2023
                            https://www.efficiencymaine.com/at-home/lighting-solutions/)

Lux: (symbol: lx) The unit of illuminance equal to one lumen per square meter.
 Figure 11: Lux (Adapted from Barco 2023 https://www.barco.com/en/support/knowledge-base/3736-what-is-the-difference-
                                              between-cdm2-lux-and-lumens)

Manufacturer’s Catalog Cut: A publication or other printed material of a lamp or lighting manufacturer
offering visual and technical information about a lighting fixture or lamp.

Mounting height: The height of the light fixture as measured from the point at which light is emitted
above the ground plane (pole-mounted) or lowest finished floor elevation (structure-mounted).

Multi-Family Residential Property: Any parcel having a building containing five or more dwelling units,
or any parcel zoned R-M Residential.

Nadir: The direction pointing directly downward from the light source of the light fixture that originates
from a horizontal plane at the lowest point on the light fixture.

Optic: The components of a light fixture such as reflectors, refractors, and protectors which make up its
light emitting section.

Outdoor Light Fixture (Outdoor Lighting, Exterior Lighting): An outdoor, electric, or solar-powered
illuminating lamp, or similar device used for lighting structures, parking lots, pathways, service canopies,
recreational areas, signs, or other similar outdoor uses.

Partially Shielded Light Fixture: An outdoor light fixture constructed and mounted so that the installed
fixture emits most, but not all, of its light below the horizontal plane.

Pathway Lights: A light fixture, or collection of light fixtures, less than eighteen inches (18") in height,
lining one or both sides of an outdoor path or walkway that provides illumination to guide persons along
the outdoor path or walkway.

Photometry: The quantitative measurement of light level and distribution.

Photocell: An electronic device that changes the light output of a light fixture dynamically in response to
the ambient light level around the light fixture.

Pool Lighting: Light fixtures located below the surface of the water in a swimming pool, hot tub,
reflecting pool, fountain, or other water features.

Recreational Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate playing fields, courts, playgrounds, ice rinks, or similar
outdoor recreational facilities.

Reflector: An optic that achieves control of light by means of reflection (using mirrors).

Refractor: An optic that achieves control of light by means of refraction (using lenses).

Religious Institutions Property: Property containing a religious or spiritually-oriented structure(s) or
accessory structures, where persons regularly assemble for religious or spiritual purposes and related
social events.

Security Lights: Lighting designed to illuminate a property or grounds for the purpose of visual security.

Shielding: An opaque material that blocks the transmission of light.
Single-Family Residential Property: Any parcel zoned FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50, FR-
100, and for Planned Unit Developments.

Skyglow: The brightening of the nighttime sky resulting from the scattering and reflection of artificial
light by moisture and dust particles in the atmosphere. Skyglow is caused by light directed or reflected
upwards or sideways, reducing one’s ability to view the nighttime sky.




        Figure 12: Skyglow Bortle Scale measuring degradation of the night sky (adapted from Skyglow Project 2023
                                         https://skyglowproject.com/#new-page)

Spotlight: A fixture or lamp designed to light a small area very brightly. See the definition of Floodlight.

Stationary Lighting. Lights that are fixed in a non-moving position.

Task Lighting: Task lighting is used to provide direct light for specific activities without illuminating the
entire area.

Tower: Any monopole, antenna or the like that exceeds eighteen feet (18’) in height.

Unshielded Light Fixture: A fixture that allows light to be emitted above the horizontal plane, either
directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture or reflector.

Visibility: The distance one can see horizontally as determined by light and weather conditions.

Wall Pack: A light fixture, typically affixed to the side of a structure, used for area lighting.
19.73.112 - Scope and Applicability.
A. Compliant Lighting.
    1. Lighting installed and/or replaced after the effective date hereof in all zones in the Metro
        Township shall comply with the requirements established by this Chapter.
B. Non-compliant Lighting.
    1. Lighting that does not meet the requirements of this Chapter shall be considered non-compliant
        lighting.
C. Amortization: All exterior lighting fixtures that do not conform to the requirements of this Chapter
    shall be brought into conformance no later than 5 years from the effective date of this Chapter. The
    Metro Township encourages property owners to voluntarily bring non-compliant lighting into
    compliance with this Chapter as soon as possible.
D. Lighting Modifications.
    1. When a Building Permit is required:
        a. If the proposed structural modifications necessitate the removal of a non-compliant light
             fixture, the light fixture shall be replaced or modified to bring it into compliance with the
             requirements of this Chapter.
        b. If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of 50% or more of the property
             value at the time of submittal, a lighting plan for the property shall be submitted subject to
             the conditions outlined in Section 19.73.118.
    2. When a building permit is not required and a non-compliant light fixture is replaced, destroyed,
        damaged, or modified, the replacement shall comply with the requirements of this Chapter.
E. Conflicts.
    1. In the event any federal, state, or county statute or regulation conflicts with any requirement of
        this Chapter, the most restrictive statute, regulation, or requirement shall govern unless
        otherwise required by law. In the event any requirement of the Metro Township’s other
        ordinances conflicts with the requirements of this Chapter, the most restrictive requirements
        shall govern.



19.73.113 - Standards.
A. Minimum Necessary.
    1. The intensity of outdoor (exterior) lighting shall be the minimum necessary to provide for safety
       and functionality. The lowest-lumen light source necessary for a lighting application shall be
       used.
       a. All lighting shall be purpose-driven:
            i. Useful: All light used shall have a clear purpose.
            ii. Targeted: Light shall be directed only to where needed.
            iii. Low Light Levels: Light shall be no brighter than necessary.
            iv. Controlled: Light shall be used only when it is useful.
            v. Color: Where possible, warmer color lights shall be used.
B. Allowable Applications.
   1. Outdoor lighting in compliance with this Chapter shall only be allowed in the following
      applications:
      a. To illuminate the entrances to buildings (including garage entrances).
      b. To illuminate pathways and walkways.
      c. To illuminate parking areas and parking area access lanes.
      d. To illuminate gathering areas, such as patios, pool and hot tub areas, dining areas, and
         recreation areas.
      e. For security purposes, provided all the following conditions are met:
         i. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
              minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
         ii. The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct illumination falls outside the
              property boundaries where the security lighting is placed.
         iii. Sensors are adjusted to meet site conditions to avoid repetitive activation by wildlife,
              wind, and/or other disturbances.
      f. To illuminate signage.
      g. For Accent Lighting, provided all the following conditions are met:
         i. All accent lighting is mounted on and illuminates only building facades visible from an
              adjacent public right of way.
         ii. The accent lighting is sufficiently shielded such that the light source is not visible beyond
              the property boundaries.
         iii. The accent lighting is directed such that all light shines on the building facade, not on
              the adjacent property or the night sky.
         iv. The accent lighting is not used to illuminate the landscape, landscape elements, statues,
              or other similar features.
      h. To illuminate outdoor water features, provided all the following conditions are met:
         i. The lighting is angled below the horizontal plane.
         ii. The lighting is placed underneath or behind the water such that the water diffuses the
              light from all points where the light is visible.
      i. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting utilized for holidays or special events shall be
         extinguished by 10:00 pm. When in use, the lighting shall not exceed the allowed footcandle
         limit for the property. This can be accomplished by reducing light usage in other areas of the
         property. Temporary lighting shall be limited to the following:
         i. The period of time between December 1st and January 1st each calendar year; and,
         ii. Periods of time outside the month of December shall not exceed 7 days per calendar
              month for other holidays and special events.

C. Total Light Output.
   1. Commercial and Religious Institutions Properties: The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether
       shielded or unshielded, shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles per square foot of hardscape.
   2. Multi-Family Residential Properties: The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether shielded or
       unshielded, shall not exceed 1.5 footcandles per square foot of hardscape.
   3. Single-Family Residential Properties: The total amount of outdoor lighting, whether shielded or
       unshielded, shall not exceed 1.0 footcandle per square foot of hardscape.
       a. Single-Family Residential Properties used for overnight accommodations or commercial uses
            shall comply with Single-Family Residential Property standards for total light output.
   4. For all Properties – Light output from outdoor sources shall not exceed 0.1 footcandle at the
       property line.
D. Maximum Color Temperature of All Outdoor Lighting Fixtures.
   1. The correlated color temperature of any outdoor lighting fixture shall not exceed three
       thousand degrees Kelvin (3000°K).
E. Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements.
   1. Unless specifically exempted by this Chapter, all outdoor lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures
       that are designed and constructed so that:
       a. No light is emitted and/or reflected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
       b. Light emitted is limited to a value not exceeding 10% of lamp lumens at or above 80° nadir
            and zero lumens above the horizontal plane (90° nadir).
       c. Lighting is placed and/or directed at a location, angle, and/or height to prevent direct
            illumination outside the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.
       d. When a light manufacturer provides a BUG rating, the uplight rating (U) shall equal zero (0).
   2. Characteristics:
       a. To qualify as a fully shielded fixture, the top and sides of a light fixture shall be made of
            completely opaque material, such that light only escapes through the bottom of the fixture.
            Fixtures with translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not
            qualify as fully shielded. Any glass or diffuser on the bottom of the fixture must be flush with
            the fixture (no drop lenses) and must not reflect light that breaks the horizontal plane
            established at the bottom of the shield. Merely placing a light fixture under an eave, canopy,
            patio cover or other similar cover does not qualify the fixture as being fully shielded.
F. Exemptions To Fully Shielded Fixture Requirements. All lighting identified in this Section shall be
   included in calculating the total footcandle output allowed unless otherwise noted and as set forth
   in Section 19.73.113. C.
   1. Spotlights:
       a. Spotlights controlled by motion sensors having a light output of less than one thousand
            (1000) lumens per lamp are exempt from the fully shielded requirement, provided:
            i. The fixture is a spotlight or other type of directed light that shall be directed at a forty-
                 five-degree (45°) angle or less, where the zero (0) angle is pointing straight down, and
                 (a) The fixture must not be placed in such a manner that results in light trespass, and
                 (b) The lighting elements controlled by motion sensors shall not be triggered by
                     movement or activity located off the property on which it is located.
            ii. The fixture is hooded or shielded to the extent necessary to prevent glare on adjacent
                 properties or roadways.
            iii. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within or before, fifteen (15)
                 minutes after each activation or when the activity involved is completed.
   2. Pathway Lights:
       a. Pathway lights less than eighteen inches (18") in height are exempt from the fully shielded
            fixture requirement if:
            i. The total light emitted by all pathway light fixtures as measured along the centerline of
                 the pathway lighted does not exceed 1.0 footcandle; and
            ii. The lights have opaque caps that direct light below the horizontal plane.
   3. Temporary Exterior or Decorative Lighting:
       a. Temporary exterior or decorative lighting, provided that individual lamps do not exceed 70
            lumens, the total output of temporary lighting does not cause the property to exceed total
            footcandle levels allowed in this Chapter, and the lighting does not cause light trespass or
            interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of surrounding properties.
   4. Law Enforcement Lighting, Traffic Control Signals, and Traffic Safety Devices:
       a. Traffic control signals, traffic safety devices, and law enforcement lighting used by a
            governing agency, is exempt from and not governed by the requirements of this Chapter.
   5. Temporary Emergency Lighting:
       a. Temporary emergency lighting in use by law enforcement or government agencies, or at
            their direction, is exempt from and not governed by the requirements of this Chapter.
   6. Pool Lighting
       a. Underwater lighting fixtures providing illumination to all underwater areas of a swimming
            pool, hot tub, reflecting pool, fountain, or other such water feature provided they are
            shielded to the greatest extent feasible to prevent light trespass beyond the surface of the
            water.
G. Restrictions On Total Amount of Unshielded Lighting.
   1. Outdoor lighting that is exempt from the shielding requirement in this Chapter shall not
       contribute more than the equivalent of:
       a. 0.2 footcandle per square foot of hardscape for Commercial or Religious Institutions
            Properties.
       b. 0.15 footcandle per total square foot of hardscape for Multi-Family Residential Properties.
       c. 0.1 footcandle per square foot of hardscape for Single-Family Residential Properties.
   2. All lighting fixtures shall be fully shielded when installed within twenty-five (25) feet of adjacent
       residential property lines.



19.73.114 – Night Lighting Limitations.
A. Commercial and Religious Institutions Properties.
    1. Shall turn off all outdoor lighting, except those listed below, within one hour after closing.
       a. Lighting to illuminate the entrance(s).
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of customers, employees, and
            guests.
B. Multi-Family and Single-Family Residential Properties.
    1. Shall be turned off one hour after dusk through 6:00 am the following morning, except those
       listed below:
       a. Lighting to illuminate entrances.
       b. Parking lot and pathway lighting required for the safety of residents or guests.
       c. Outdoor gathering spaces when in use.
C. Recreational Lighting
    1. Shall be turned off when not in use, and from 10:00 pm until 6:00 am the following morning,
       except to conclude a community-approved event that is underway.
19.73.115 - Specialized Outdoor Lighting.
A. Roadway/Streetlights.
    1. Roadways and streetlights are prohibited unless recommended by the County Engineer or
       required by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). When deemed necessary,
       streetlights shall utilize lamp types that are fully shielded light fixtures that minimize sky glow,
       light trespass, and other unintended impacts of artificial lighting. All street lights shall utilize the
       lowest light levels accepted by the County Engineer and/or UDOT.
B. Parking Lots.
    1. Spot or flood lighting of parking lots from a building or other structure is prohibited.
    2. The mounting height of any pole-mounted light fixture used to illuminate parking lots in
       commercial or religious institution properties shall not exceed fourteen feet (14').
    3. The mounting height of any pole-mounted light fixture used to illuminate parking lots in all
       residential properties shall not exceed six feet (6').
    4. All pole-mounted parking lot lights shall be set back from property lines at a distance equal to
       two and one-half (2.5) times the height of the pole unless an internal or external shield prevents
       the fixture from being visible from outside the property boundaries.
    5. All parking lot lighting shall use fully shielded fixtures.
    6. Internal or external shields shall prevent the light source from being visible from outside the
       relevant parking lot.
C. Recreational Lighting.
    1. All proposals for recreational lighting for playing fields or court areas shall be submitted to the
       Director or designee, who may approve such requests only after finding:
       a. The recreational lighting has met the requirements for minimizing glare, light spill, light
            trespass, and uplight using louvers, hoods, or shielding.
       b. The recreational lighting only illuminates the playing field or court area and is shielded to
            prevent illumination from falling outside of those areas.
       c. Lighting on the playing field or court area shall not exceed 20 footcandles per square foot.
       d. The light source for recreational lighting is not visible from adjacent properties.
       e. Pole-mounted recreational lighting is limited to eighteen feet (18') in mounting height. Pole-
            mounted recreational lighting must be set at a distance equal to two and one-half (2.5)
            times the height of the pole installed from any adjacent property line unless an internal or
            external shield prevents the fixture from being visible from outside the property boundaries.
D. Amphitheater Lighting.
    1. Outdoor amphitheaters may use illumination to light the performance area of the amphitheater
       and provide public safety. The following standards apply to all amphitheater lighting:
       a. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area must be either directed spotlighting or
            fully shielded lighting. If directed spotlighting, the light source must be located and designed
            such that it is not visible beyond the property boundaries.
       b. Lighting used to illuminate the performance area may only be turned on during
            performances or rehearsals.
       c. Lighting used to illuminate the seating areas, pathways, and other areas of the amphitheater
            must meet all standards of this Chapter.
E. Signs.
    1. Where other municipal ordinances are in conflict with the requirements of this Chapter, the
       more restrictive requirements shall apply.
    2. Signs may be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted internally, or backlit. All sign lighting must be
       designed, directed, and shielded in such a manner that the light source is not visible beyond the
       property boundaries where the sign is located. Lighting for signs must be directed such that only
       the sign’s copy area is illuminated.
    3. Lighting for signs must be stationary and constant.
    4. All signage elements must be stationary.
    5. Standards for Externally Illuminated Signs:
       a. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be aimed and shielded so that light is directed
            only onto the sign face and does not intrude onto adjacent streets, roads, or properties or
            into the night sky.
       b. Lighting for externally illuminated signs must be mounted at the top of the sign (or within
            two (2) feet of the top of a building-mounted sign).
    6. Standards for Internally Illuminated Signs
       a. Lighting Is Visible on Both Sides of the Sign:
            i. Only sign copy areas and logos may be illuminated on an internally illuminated sign.
            ii. Internally illuminated signs shall use semi-opaque materials for sign copy such that the
                 light emanating from the sign is diffused. Transparent or clear materials are not allowed
                 for sign copy. Non-copy portions of the sign (e.g., background and graphics) shall be
                 made of completely opaque material.
    7. Standards for Backlit Signs
       a. Only One Side of Sign Is Lit:
            i. Backlit signs shall be designed such that the light source is not visible.
            ii. Backlit signs shall be designed such that direct illumination does not emanate out of the
                 sign. Rather, the backlighting shall only allow indirect illumination to emanate from the
                 sign. For example, signs that create a "halo" effect around sign copy are allowed.
            iii. Backlit signs shall use low-lumen light sources (450 lumens maximum).
    8. Illuminated Window Signage:
       a. Illuminated window signs positioned to be primarily visible outside all structures are allowed
            only if there are no more than two (2) signs. Each sign shall measure less than three and
            one-half (31/2) square feet in area.



19.73.116 - Prohibited Lighting.
A. Accent Lighting that is directed upward above the horizontal plane to illuminate building structures,
    landscape, landscape features, statues or similar features, vegetation, or for any other use.
B. Flashing, blinking, intermittent, or other lights that move or give the impression of movement.
C. Unshielded Floodlights or Spotlights affixed to buildings for the purpose of lighting parking lots.
D. Searchlights and laser source lights.
E. Building-mounted light fixtures in residential properties at a mounting height of more than 14 ft.
    above the finished grade at the primary entrance to the corresponding side of the building (i.e.
    front, sides, rear.)
1. For buildings having sides without an entrance, the mounting height limitation established by
   the finished grade at the lowest primary entrance elevation on any side of the structure shall
   control.
2. Wall-mounted lighting may be utilized for patios and decks located above the primary entrance
   elevation, provided that the lighting is directed so that all light falls only on the deck or patio
   surface intended to be lit and the light source is shielded and/or diffused such that the light
   source is not visible outside the property boundary.




                      Figure 13: Light Fixture mounting height limitations on buildings
19.73.117 – Towers.
A. All monopole, antenna, tower, or support facility lighting not required by the Federal Aviation
    Administration (FAA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), or Municipal Fire and Police is
    prohibited.
B. When lighting is required by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police, such lighting shall not
    exceed the minimum requirements of those agencies.
C. All other lighting used on the property not regulated by the FAA, FCC, or Municipal Fire and Police
    shall conform to the requirements of this Chapter.

19.73.118 - Application and Review Procedures.
A. Lighting Plan Required.
    1. In any application for a sign permit, building permit for new development and renovation
       subject to 19.73.112.D of this Chapter, conditional use permit, subdivision, design/development
       review, and any other development application within any zoning district, including all municipal
       projects, the applicant shall, as part of the application process, submit a Lighting Plan including
       sufficient information to enable the Director or designee to determine whether the proposed
       lighting complies with the requirements of this Chapter. All applications may be subject to
       review and action by the Director or designee.
    2. Lighting Plans shall include the following:
       a. Site plans or drawings indicating the proposed location of all outdoor lighting fixtures, both
            proposed and any already existing on-site, including:
            i. mounting height of all light fixtures on the premises, and
            ii. type of light fixture, lamps, supports, shielding, and reflectors used and,
            iii. installation and electrical details
       b. A description of each light fixture, lamp, support, and shield, both proposed and existing.
            The description shall include but is not limited to, the Manufacturer’s Catalog Cuts and
            illustrations (including sections where required); lamp types, wattages, initial lumen
            outputs, diffusers, shielding mechanisms, and other accessories. A BUG rating must be
            included if supplied for each light fixture.
       c. A table showing the total number of proposed exterior lights, by fixture type, lumens, and
            lamp type, including a Manufacturer’s Catalog Cuts whenever possible.
       d. The Lighting Plan must demonstrate that no more than the allotted footcandle of light shall
            be utilized on the property or properties, as specified in section 19.73.113.C.
       e. Such other information that the Director or designee may determine is necessary to ensure
            compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
B. Approval Procedure.
    1. If the Director or designee determines that any proposed lighting described in a lighting plan
       does not comply with the requirements of this Chapter, the lighting plan shall not be approved,
       and the specific permit applied for shall not be issued.

19.73.119 - Appeals, Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties.
A. Appeal for Exemption.
    1. In the event the Director or designee denies the Lighting Plan, the applicant may appeal the
       decision with the Director or designee.
        a. The Director or designee may approve a lighting plan that does not comply with this Chapter
           if the applicant demonstrates that compliance with the Chapter constitutes an undue
           hardship.
           i. In the event the Director or designee approves the lighting plan, they may attach other
                conditions to such approval that will make the proposed lighting comply with the spirit
                of this Chapter.
        b. In the event the Director or designee does not approve the proposed lighting plan the
           applicant may appeal that decision pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 19.92.050
           Appeals of the Emigration Canyon Municipal Code.

B. Violations.
   1. The following constitute violations of this Chapter:
       a. Failing to meet light curfew standards as outlined in section 19.73.114.
       b. The installation, maintenance, or operation of any outdoor lighting fixture not in compliance
           with the requirements of this Chapter if such fixture is installed after the effective date of
           this Chapter.
       c. The alteration of any outdoor lighting fixtures after the approval of a lighting plan by the
           Director or designee, when such alteration does not conform to the requirements of this
           Chapter.
       d. Failure to shield, correct or remove lighting that is installed, operated, maintained, or
           altered in violation of the requirements of this Chapter.
C. Enforcement.
   1. If, after investigation, the Director or designee finds that any requirement of this Chapter is
       being violated, the Director or designee shall give notice by hand delivery or by certified mail,
       return receipt requested, of such violation to the owner and/or occupant of such premises,
       demanding that the violation be abated within 30-days of the date of hand-delivery or of the
       date of mailing of the notice. Planning and Development Services staff shall be available to assist
       in working with the violator to correct the violation. If the violation is not abated within the 30-
       day period, the Director or designee may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or
       equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any such violations and to collect penalties for such
       violations.
   2. Hillsides, Ridgelines, and Special Cases
       a. In certain cases (such as, but not limited to, properties on or near ridgelines or hillsides), the
           Director or designee may require that certain steps be implemented to mitigate the effects
           of light pollution, glare, light trespass, sky glow, and to curtail the degradation of the night
           sky environment.
           i. For any light source that is directly visible from outside the property boundaries on
                which the light source is located, the property owner shall redirect, shield, and/or
                diffuse the light source to minimize the impact and/or address any unintended effect on
                the night sky environment and adjacent properties. This provision does not apply to
                existing lighting during which time it is subject to the amortization period set forth in
                19.73.112.C.
D. Penalties.
1. Penalties: A violation of this the requirements of this Chapter shall be punishable by a civil
   penalty of $50.00 per day, and each day of violation after the expiration of the 30-day
   abatement period set forth in Section 19.73.119.C.1.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                                                                 DARK SKY ORDINANCE
                                                         MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING




     Emigration Canyon Metro Township                                                       MUNICIPAL CODE:
     DARK SKY ORDINANCE                                                                 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
8/9. City/Inner City Sky     7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Presentation Outline

   1. Why a Night Sky Ordinance?
                    General Plan Guidance 		
                    Health Safety & Wellness


   2. Night Sky Overview
                    What are Dark Skies?
                    Dark Sky Don’ts
                    Dark Sky Dos


   3. Developing Ordinance Language
                    Resources Utilized
                    Ordinances Studied
                    Partners Consulted


   4. Key Takeaways
                    Existing Property Owners & Residents
                    New Development & Significant Structural Updates


   5. Develop a Lighting Plan in 5 Basic Steps
                                                                                                                                   1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Why a Night Sky Ordinance?
   • General Plan Guidance
   • Health Safety & Wellness
                                                                                                                                                                                        1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Why a Night Sky Ordinance?


   General Plan Guidance
   Emigration Canyon Metro Township has identified in the Community Values section of the General Plan
   that environmental sustainability & protection of the natural environment is important to community
   members, and the identity of the Metro Township. The expressed aim of the General Plan is to:

   “Maintain or enhance environmental sustainability and stewardship now and for future
   generations; this includes but is not limited to features such as water quality, open space,
   noise management, dark skies, air quality, biodiversity, and climate resilience.” pg. 30-31

   General Plan Link:
                Link https://ec-lrp-hub-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/
   •                Goal 2.3: Preserve and enhance ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and 		
                    open space.
   		 Objective 2.3.2: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal wildlife.
   			     a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky compliant light-pollution control ordinance.

   •                Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional
                    and diverse.
   		 Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal wildlife.
   			     a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky compliant light-pollution control ordinance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky                  7. City/Suburbia Transition    6. Bright Suburban Sky                      5. Suburban Sky     4. Suburban/Rural Transition                      3. Rural Sky           2. Dark-Sky Site                   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Why a Night Sky Ordinance?


   Health, Safety, & Wellness
               Human Health                                                  Ecological Health                                                                  Waste                                                         Safety
          Humans Need The Natural                                                 Artificial Light Disrupts                               Light Pollution Costs Money                                      Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer
             Day/Night Cycle                                                             Ecosystems                                          And Wastes Resources
   Our biological clocks help keep us healthy.                          Plants and animals depend on Earth’s                           Unnecessary and/or excessive outdoor                               Research shows that consistently lighting
   When our master clock is out of sync with                            daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-                  lighting wastes energy by emitting more                            the nighttime environment does not
   the day/night cycle, it’s called circadian                           sustaining behaviors such as reproduction,                     light than necessary or shining when and                             necessarily improve safety or security.
   disruption. Altering or interrupting our                             nourishment, sleep and protection from                         where it is not needed. Wasting energy in
   normal circadian rhythm can put us at risk                           predators. Scientific evidence suggests                        this way has economic and environmental
    for physiological and behavioral impacts.                           that artificial light at night has negative and                              consequences.
                                                                        detrimental affects on many living things,
                                                                        including amphibians, birds, mammals,
                                                                                  invertebrates, and plants.




            Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk                              Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife                              Light Pollution Costs Money and                              Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety
                     International Dark Sky Association                                 International Dark Sky Association                                 Wastes Resources                                         International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                      International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky             5. Suburban Sky         4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Health, Safety, & Wellness




                                                                                        Human Health
                                                                                     Humans Need The Natural
                                                                                        Day/Night Cycle
                                                                                  Our biological clocks help keep us healthy.
                                                                                  When our master clock is out of sync with
                                                                                  the day/night cycle, it’s called circadian
                                                                                  disruption. Altering or interrupting our
                                                                                  normal circadian rhythm can put us at risk
                                                                                   for physiological and behavioral impacts.




                                                                                      Light Pollution Can Put Your Health at Risk
                                                                                            International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky             5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




 Health, Safety, & Wellness




                                                                                      Ecological Health
                                                                                        Artificial Light Disrupts
                                                                                               Ecosystems
                                                                                  Plants and animals depend on Earth’s
                                                                                  daily cycle of light and dark to govern life-
                                                                                  sustaining behaviors such as reproduction,
                                                                                  nourishment, sleep and protection from
                                                                                  predators. Scientific evidence suggests
                                                                                  that artificial light at night has negative and
                                                                                  detrimental affects on many living things,
                                                                                  including amphibians, birds, mammals,
                                                                                            invertebrates, and plants.




                                                                                           Light Pollution Can Harm Wildlife
                                                                                             International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky           5. Suburban Sky         4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Health, Safety, & Wellness




                                                                                                        Waste
                                                                                    Light Pollution Costs Money
                                                                                       And Wastes Resources
                                                                                  Unnecessary and/or excessive outdoor
                                                                                  lighting wastes energy by emitting more
                                                                                  light than necessary or shining when and
                                                                                  where it is not needed. Wasting energy in
                                                                                  this way has economic and environmental
                                                                                                consequences.




                                                                                          Light Pollution Costs Money and
                                                                                                 Wastes Resources
                                                                                           International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky             5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




 Health, Safety, & Wellness




                                                                                                       Safety
                                                                                   Brighter Does NOT Mean Safer

                                                                                  Research shows that consistently lighting
                                                                                  the nighttime environment does not
                                                                                    necessarily improve safety or security.




                                                                                         Outdoor Lighting, Crime, and Safety
                                                                                           International Dark Sky Association
                                                                                                    2
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Night Sky Overview
   What are Dark Skies
   Dark Sky Don’ts
   Dark Sky Dos
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
 8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




What are Dark Skies?



    Night Sky Environment
    The cycles of light and dark, created by celestial bodies outside of the earth’s atmosphere,
    directed cycles of activity and growth for all living things on earth until the proliferation of
    lighting technologies. Today a view from space of earth’s surface at night reveals a matrix of
    lights, stretching from metropolis to metropolis illuminating those areas most influenced
    by humanity. Understanding your role in the Night Sky Environment can help you make
    choices that reduce the impact lighting is having on you and your community.
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
 8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




What are Dark Skies?



    Our Impact
    Many of us have experienced this scenario: a neighbor installs a new light on their property.
    It’s an unshielded fixture that casts a bright light that spills onto your property and perhaps
    even inside your home. Frustrating right?

    Have you considered that you might be that neighbor in someone else’s scenario?
    Topography in Emigration Canyon can create scenarios in which light sources can directly
    affect homes at great distances. The four topics below; Skyglow
                                                              Skyglow, Light Pollution, Light
    Trespass, and Glare, can help you better understand the potential impacts of uncontrolled
    light.
                                                                                                                                                                                   2
 8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




What are Dark Skies?



    Skyglow
    Skyglow occurs when ambient manmade light floods the sky creating a glow that can
    be almost as bright as dawn or dusk. The accumulated light washes the night sky of its
    luminosity and brilliance, forcing urban and suburban dwellers who wish to enjoy a view
    of the Milky Way Galaxy or constellations to travel to areas where light pollution does not
                                    exist or is better controlled.

           Communities and areas can be rated as to the quality of their Night Sky Environment
            from 9 to 1 based on the levels of Skyglow effecting their night sky environment.

                                        Where would you rate your community on the scale below?
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Dark Sky Don’ts
   Leave Lights on all Night!
                                                                                                                                                                                  2
   Pollution
   Trespass
   Glare
Dark Skies Don’ts
                                                                                2
                    Leave Lights on all Night!
                    If you are not using the area, please don’t light it lit!
                     Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an
                       easy and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!
Light Pollution
Light pollution is a side effect of industrial civilization. Its sources
include building exterior and interior lighting, advertising,
commercial properties, offices, factories, streetlights, and
                                                                                                 DarkDark
                                                                                                     SkiesSkies Don’ts
                                                                                                           Don’ts
                                                                                                                           2
illuminated sporting venues.

The fact is that much outdoor lighting used at night
is inefficient, overly bright, poorly targeted,
improperly shielded, and, in many cases,
completely unnecessary. This light, and                                                  Lighting source visible outside
the electricity used to create it, is being                                                       the property
wasted by spilling it into the sky, rather
than focusing it on to the actual
objects and areas that people
want illuminated.




     Consistently Illuminated
                                                                           Over-lit areas producing
        Spotlight Zones
                                                                               Light Pollution
Dark Skies Don’ts
                                                                                                            2
                                                                  Light Trespass
                                                  Light trespassing is when light from one house
                                                 or property is improperly controlled and crosses
                                                 boundaries. Trespassing light interferes with the
                                                darkness of other properties or even brightens the
                                                          inside of another persons home.




                                                     Unintended Light Trespass
                                                            affecting a
                                                    residence at lower elevation




                    Unintended Light Trespass
                             at the
                         Property Line




                                                                                     Unintended Light Trespass
                                                                                      affecting Public Space
Dark Skies Don’ts
                                                                                            2
                                                         Glare
                      Glare caused by light pollutions is a lot like the glare that is
                     created by the sun. A common cause of glare are street lights
                    and car headlights, which can impact of a person’s ability to see
                      clearly in the dark after the car has passed. This can lessen a
                    persons nighttime depth perception and their ability to discern
                                  between different shadows in the dark.




                                     Upward
                                reflected light




                                                               Glare Zones


                                                                             Direct Glare
                      Useful Light


  Glare Zones
                                              Area to be lit
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Dark Sky Dos
   Turn Lights Off!
   Useful, Targeted, Low Level, Controlled, & Color
                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                            Dark Skies Dos
                                                                             2
Turn Lights off!
If you are not using the area, please don’t leave it lit!
Turning off outdoor lights an hour after dusk is an
easy and free way to become Dark Sky Friendly!
Useful
                                                                                                      Dark Skies Dos

                                                                                                      Targeted
                                                                                                                            2
Use light only if it is needed                               Direct light so it falls only where it is needed
All light should have a clear purpose. Consider how the       Use shielding and careful aiming to target the direction of
use of light will impact the area, including wildlife and      the light beam so that it points downward and does not
their habitats..                                                                        spill beyond where it is needed.




Low Level
Light should be no brighter than necessary
Use the lowest light level required. Be mindful of surface
conditions, as some surfaces may reflect more light into
the night sky than intended.




Controlled                                                                                                   Color
Use light only when it is needed                                   Use warmer color lights where possible
Use controls such as timers or motion detectors to
                                                                  Limit the amount of shorter wavelength (blue-violet)
ensure that light is available when it is needed, dimmed
                                                                                    light to the least amount needed.
when possible, and turned off when not needed.
                           3
Developing Ordinance Language
Timeline
Resources Utilized
Model Ordinances Studied
Partners Consulted
 Developing Ordinance Language Timeline                                                    3
 Developing Ordinance Language
 Developing the the Night Lighting Ordinance Update and accompanying graphical content
 has engaged MSD Planning Staff, the Emigration Canyon Planing Commission, and partners.
 Ordinance language has been thoroughly review for compliance with health and safety
 standards, and night lighting best practices.

 Review of         Review of Model   Ordinance         Ordinance         Public Review and
 Available         Ordinances        Drafting and      Review and        Recommendation
 Resources                           Graphical         Content           to the
                                     Content           Revision          Community
                                     Development                         Council
Ju




                 Au




                                     O




                                                     D




                                                                       M
                                                      ec
                                     ct




                                                                        ay
   n




                    g
  e




                                       ov




                                                        em
                   us




                                                                          20
   20




                                         er
                     t2




                                                                            22
                                                          be
       22




                                         20
                        02




                                                            r2
                                           22
                           2




                                                             02
                                                                2
Developing Ordinance Language                                                                                                                  3
Resources Utilized

Dark Sky Lighting Ordinance Walkthrough
       Colorado Platea Dark Sky Cooperative - https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapSeries/index.html?appid=1cb7caaa1aa543dea3c813ec9f1f7f93#


International Dark-Sky Association
       Model Lighting Ordinance - https://www.darksky.org/our-work/lighting/public-policy/mlo/
       Five Principles for Responsible Outdoor Lighting - https://www.darksky.org/our-work/lighting/lighting-principles/
       Board Policy on the Application of the Lighting Principles - https://www.darksky.org/wp-content/uploads/bsk-pdf-manager/2021/08/
BOARD-policy-application-of-light-FINAL-June-24-2021.docx.pdf



USU Extension - Gateway & Natural Amenity Region (GNAR) Initiative
       Planners & Decision Makers Toolkit - https://www.usu.edu/gnar/tools/dark_sky_tools/planners_and_decisionmakers



Utah Workforce Services – Housing and Community Development Office
       Guidance and Best Practices – Dark Sky Planning - https://cpdarkskies.files.wordpress.com/2020/02/dark-sky-web-_2-7-2020-2.pdf



Town of Alta Dark Sky Presentation
       https://townofalta.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Welcome-Dark-Sky.pdf
Developing Ordinance Language                                                                           3
Model Ordinances Studied

•   Model Lighting Ordinance User’s Guide
    U.S. Green Building Council
    https://www.usgbc.org/resources/model-lighting-ordinance-users-guide


•   Torrey, Utah
    Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2016
    https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/torreyut/latest/torrey_ut/0-0-0-1035


•   Moab City
    Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2019
    https://moabcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/2836/City-of-Moab-Outdoor-Lighting-Ordinance-2019-03


•   Grand County
    Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2019
    https://moabcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/2840/Grand-County-Lighting-Ordinance


•   Eagle Canyon
    Outdoor Lighting Standards 2014
    https://www.codepublishing.com/UT/EagleMountain/#!/EagleMountain17/EagleMountain1756.html%2317.56


•   Sedona
    Outdoor Light Ordinace
    https://www.darksky.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/Sedona_Lighting_Ordinance.pdf
Developing Ordinance Language                              3
Partners Consulted

•   IDA Utah Chapter’s Lighting Ordinance Committee

•   Colorado Plateau Dark Sky Cooperative
    Dark Sky Cooperative Network
    Institute of Outdoor Recreation & Tourism

•   Clayton & Associates Lighting Design and Engineering
                                                                                      4
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




   Key Takeaways for
   • Property Owners & Residents
                    Effective upon adoption:
                    Effective Post Amortization Period

   • New Development & Significant Structural
     Modifications
                    Lighting Plan Requirements
8/9. City/Inner City Sky     7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




  Key Takeaways for
  Property Owners & Residents
   Effective upon adoption:

   Night Lighting Curfew
   • Turn off all outdoor lighting not in use one hour after sundown.
                    This includes: decks
                                   decks, patios
                                          patios, gathering spaces
                                                            spaces, and recreational & parking areas.
                                                                                               areas
   • Pathway & entrance lighting may remain on as required to provide safe entrance to any
     structure
     structure.

   Light Trespass
   • Lighting from your property may not illuminate areas outside your property boundary.
                                                                                boundary
                    This may require you to turn off
                                                 off, redirect
                                                      redirect, shield
                                                                shield, or defuse some lighting on your property


   Holiday, Special Event, & Temporary Lighting
   • Do not:: Use spotlights
                  spotlights, lasers
                              lasers, or high intensity lighting.
                    Do:: Direct all lighting below the horizontal plane (down
                                                                         down), insure that all lighting remains within the property
                    boundary
                    boundary, limit display times to a 14 day period
                                                               period, and between Thanksgiving Day & New Years Day. Day



   MSD Citizen Problem Reporter
   • The above issuse are appropriate to report using the MSD Citizen Problem Reproter
                    Under the Code Enforcement Problems option.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




  Key Takeaways for
  Property Owners & Residents
   Effective upon adoption:
   Any Light Fixture being Updated or Replaced
   • Any light fixture that is replaced, destroyed, damaged, or modified, must be replaced by a
     light fixture that is Fully Shielded / Full Cutoff Fixture.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky         7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




           Key Takeaways for
           Property Owners & Residents
             Effective Post Amortization Period

             Updating Lighting
             • As you replace luminairs and lighting fixtures
                                                     fixtures, choose Full Cutoff Replacements
                                                                                  Replacements.
                           All lighting should be Fully Shielded or Full Cutoff Fixtures in the canyon within 5 years of the of the adoption
                           of this ordinance.


             Lighting Limitations
             • Each residence will be limited in the amount of lighting that can be utilized on the
               property.
               property
             This limit is established by the total sq ft of hardscape (non-organic horizontal surfaces intended for walking or
             gathering) on the property. No more than one candle foot should be utilized per sq. ft. of hardscape. Candle feet
             and lumens bare a close relationship. Aim for a lumen output that matches the sqft. of space you are intending to
             light.
 Quick Tip

 Dark Sky Don’ts Effective Post Amortization Period
  Do Not!                                                              Do Not!                                                                     Do Not!
  Leave lights on!                                                     Control your light source!                                                 Trespass!
  • Only use the light you need, when you need it!                     • Your light source may be visible far beyond the area                     • Make sure that all of the light you are generating on
    Constantly lit lights waste time, money, are less secure             it is effectively Illuminating! If you live on a hillside or               your property, stays on your property! This may require
    and interrupts human and ecological health!                          ridgeline your deck lights bulb may be visible to every                    you to do some extra shielding or defusing.
  Uplight!                                                               neighbor living below you in elevation. Consider using
  • Do not shine lights upwards! Not for Architectural                   dimmers, diffusers, and shields to ensure that you are
    Lighting, Landscape Lighting, Signage, Floodlights,                  not creating a line-of-site glare issues for those adjacent
    Security Lighting, Holidays and Special Events. Keep all             or across the canyon.
    lights shining only below the horizontal plane.


                                                                                                                                         Uplit Landscape
                                                                                                                                         Accent Lighting
                                                               Hillsides, Ridgelines,
                                                                  & Special Cases




                                                                                                   Uplit Architectural
                                                                                                    Accent Lighting

                                                                                                                                        Flashing, Blinking, or
                                                                                                                                        Intermittent Lighting

                                            Consistently Lighting on
                                             and around Structures




                                                                                                                                                   To illuminate
                                                                                                                                                   Signage



Do not use Blue Color Temperature lighting on your plan! 			                             Use lighting with more natural color tem
                                                                                                                              temperature.
                                                                                                                                 perature.                          		>
                                                                                                                                                                    		> 3,000 Kelvin
  Dark Sky Dos Effective Post Amortization Period
   To Illuminate                                                    For                                                                    To Illuminate
   Signage                                                          Accent Lighting                                                        Parking Areas
   • Signs can be unlighted, lighted externally, lighted            • Accent lighting should never be directed upward.                     • Any light post used to illuminate parking lots in
     internally, or backlit. As long as the source light is not     • Accent lighting for structures should illuminating only                commercial zones shall not exceed fourteen feet (14’).
     visible.                                                         building facades visible from an adjacent public right of            • The overall height of any light post used to illuminate
                                                                      way such as a street or sidewalk.                                       residential parking zones should not exceed six feet (6’).
   • Lighting for signs should be directed so that only the
                                                                    • The accent lighting light source should not be visible               • All post-mounted parking lot lights should set back
     signs face is illuminated.
                                                                      beyond the property boundaries.                                         from property lines a distance equal to two and one-
   • Lighting for signs should utilize stationary and constant      • The accent lighting should not used to illuminate                       half (2.5) times the height of the pole.
     lighting.                                                        landscape, landscape elements, statues, or other similar
   • All sign elements should be stationary.                          features.
                                                                                                               Lighting
                                                                                                               Recreational Areas
                                                                                                               • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers, hoods, or shielding.
                                                                                                               • Illuminates only the playing field or court area.
                                                                                                               • Ensure the light sources for the recreational light are not visible from adjacent properties.


                                 For
                                 Accent Lighting                                                                                  To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                  Gathering Areas (patios, pool and hot tub areas, dining areas, ext... )
                                                                                                                                  • Keep these lights off when the area is not in use!
                                                                                                                                  • Consider lighting that is activated by motion sensors and shuts off, within
                                                                                                                                    or before, fifteen (15) minutes after each activation.
                                                                                                                                  • Minimizing glare, spill light, and uplight using louvers, hoods, or shielding.
                                                                                                                                  • Illuminates only the area that will be utilized.
                                                                                                                                  • Ensure the light source for the gathering area lights are not visible from
                                                         Lighting                                                                   adjacent properties.
                                                         Recreational Areas

                                                                                                                                  To Illuminate                                     To Illuminate
                         Regulating                                                            To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                  Gathering Areas                                   Pathways
                         Temporary Lighting                                                    Entrances                                                                            Pathway lights less than
                                                                                                                                                                                    eighteen inches (18”) in height
                                                                                                                                                                                    are exempt from the fully
                                                                                                                                                                                    shielded fixture requirement
                                                                                                                                                                                    if the lights have opaque caps
                                                                                                                                                                                    that direct light below the
                                                                                                                                                                                    horizontal plane.

                           To Illuminate
                                                                                                                                                                                    To Illuminate
                           Parking Areas                                  To Illuminate                                                                                             Pools & Water
                                                                          Pathways                                                                                                  Features
                                                                                                                                                                                    The lighting should be placed
                                                                                                                                                                                    underneath or behind the
                                                             For                                                                                                                    water such that the water
                                                             Security                                                                                                               diffuses the light from all
                                                                                               Lighting                                                                             points where the light is
                                                                                                                                                                                    visible.
                                                                                               Pool & Water Features


Do not use Blue Color Temperature lighting on your plan! 			                      Use lighting with more natural color tem
                                                                                                                       temperature.
                                                                                                                          perature.                             		>
                                                                                                                                                                		> 3,000 Kelvin
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




  Key Takeaways for
  New Development & Significant Structural Modifications
   Effective upon adoption:


   Lighting Plan to be submitted along with building permit process.
   • If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of 50% or more of the property
     value at the time of submittal, a lighting plan for the property shall be submitted
   • All new development
              development.
Develop your




                  5
Night Lighting Plan
In 5 basic Steps
8/9. City/Inner City Sky    7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky       4. Suburban/Rural Transition       3. Rural Sky     2. Dark-Sky Site            1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           1. Sketch your Property’s
                           Landscape Plan                                                                                               Measure distances and areas in Google Earth
                                                                                                                                                                                Google Earth Help




                                                                                                     Use what you have!
                                                                                                     Do you already have a landscape plan?
                                                                                                     What you are looking for is a calculation of the square
                                                                                                     footage (sq. ft.) of the areas you would like to light.

                                                                                                     If not, a pen and paper will do.
                                                                                                     Go analog. Pace off your areas for a rough estimate, draw
                                                                                                     them on a piece of paper to use as a reference.

                                                                                                     Use Google Earth
                                                                                                     There are a number of applications online that can help
                                                                                                     you measure the square footage of an area. You may find
                                                                                                     the tools available in Google Earth quite useful for this.
                                                                                                     Use the scan code above for useful tips on using the tools
                                                                                                     available.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky       4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           2. Differentiate the
                           Hardscape Areas From the
                           Softscape Areas
                                                                                                    Why differentiate?
                                                                                                    We typically have very different expectations
                                                                                                    about how we light hard and softscape areas.
                                                                                                    By prioritizing lighting hardscape first, you will ensure
                                                                                                    you are being purposeful and useful with your lighting
                                                                                                    choices.

                                                                                                    Hardscape Any non-living horizontal site element,
                                                                                                    including but not limited to patios, decks,
                                                                                                    walkways, sidewalks, driveways, and steps.
                                                                                                    Any surface that you intentionally installed to move
                                                                                                    around on or park a car.

                                                                                                    Softscape Any area within the site plan where
                                                                                                    hardscape is not present.
                                                                                                    These areas are your turf grass, your planter beds, your
                                                                                                    garden and your natural landscape.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky          4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           3. Identify places you would
                           like to light, and when you
                           might need them lit
                                                                                                    Think Safety. Think Fun.
                                                                                                    Remember the 5 guiding principles: Useful,
                                                                                                    Targeted, Low Levels, Controlled, & Color
                                                                                                    Prioritize areas that will be most heavily traveled. Plan
                                                                                                    for activities that you would like to take place on your
                                                                                                    property.

                                                                                                    Calculate the sq. ft. of each individual hardscape
                                                                                                    area you wish to light.
                                                                                                    This will help you calculate how much lighting you will
                                                                                                    need to light each individual area.

                                                                                                    Combine the total sq. ft. of all the hardscape areas
                                                                                                    you wish to light.
                                                                                                    By calculating the total of all the hardscape areas, you can
                                                                                                    obtain a general sense of how much lighting to install on
                                                                                                    your property.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky    7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky           2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           4. Mark on your plan where
                           you will place each light
                           source type                                                                                                                  Find Dark Sky Friendly Lighting
                                                                                                                                                        International Dark Sky Association




                                                                                                     Lighting Choice
                                                                                                     Footcandles Allowed / Sq. Ft. Hardscape = Total
                                                                                                     Lumen
                                                                                                     Use this simple formula to create a lighting plan that
                                                                                                     meets the standards adopted by your community.

                                                                                                     Use only Full Shielded Fixtures!
                                                                                                     Do not shine or reflect light upwards! Choose light fixtures
                                                                                                     and fixtures that emit no light above the horizontal plane.
                                                                                                     Need help? Use the QR Code above for advice.

                                                                                                     Use bulbs with color temperature of less than three
                                                                                                     thousand degrees kelvin (3000°K).
                                                                                                     Don’t use lights that are blue or white in color temperature.

                                                                                                     Take advantage of exemptions.
                                                                                                     Using motion sensors and certain types of pathway lighting
                                                                                                     may allow you to install lighting that is excluded from your
                                                                                                     total lumen count.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition    6. Bright Suburban Sky     5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           5. Create a list of the products
                           used for each light source.

                                                Demonstrate compliant lighting. Identify exceptions.


                                                                                   Follow your lighting plan.


                                                         The easiest and most cost effective way to be
                                                                         Dark Sky Friendly
                                                          is to turn off lights when they are not in use!
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




           Things to Consider
           Spend nothing and come into full compliance
           Turn off all outdoor lighting not in use one hour after sundown.
           This includes: decks
                          decks, patios
                                 patios, gathering spaces
                                                   spaces, and recreational & parking areas
                                                                                      areas.


           The installation of motion detectors
           Lighting controlled by a properly installed motion detector is not including in your
           Lighting Limitation Count.
                               Count
           To qualify, you must: Ensure that all lighting falls within your property boundary. Ensure that the detector is only
           identifying motion on your property and is not consistently illuminated by environmental disturbance such as wind
           or wildlife. Direct all lighting below the horizontal plane (down).


           Pathway lights lower than 18 inches
           The use of pathway lights that are lower than 18” are not including in your Lighting
           Limitation Count.
                      Count
           To quality, you must: Ensure the total light fixture height is less than 18”.
                                                                                    18” Ensure that the total lighting emitted by
           the collection of luminairs does not exceed 1 candle foot at the centerline of the pathway illuminated.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky   5. Suburban Sky   4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




           At the Conclusion of the this Public Hearing the
           Planning Commission will consider 3 options

           1. Recommend the Ordinance Language as notified to the EC
             Township Council for adoption.

           2. Recommend the Ordinance Language with any revisions
             suggested today to the EC Township Council for adoption.

           3. Table the ordinance language for future review.
8/9. City/Inner City Sky   7. City/Suburbia Transition   6. Bright Suburban Sky      5. Suburban Sky        4. Suburban/Rural Transition   3. Rural Sky   2. Dark-Sky Site   1. Excellent Dark-Sky Site




                           Thank you for your Time!
                                                                        Good Luck Developing a
                                                          Night Lighting Plan!
                                                                                  for your Property




     Emigration Canyon Metro Township                                                          MUNICIPAL CODE:
     DARK SKY ORDINANCE                                                                    19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
