Meeting Body: Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Council
Meeting Date: June 27, 2023

Planner: Matthew Starley, Long                                 SUMMARY
Range Planner                        This project will repeal and replace Section 19.73.110, Night
Project Name and File Number:        Lighting, of the Emigration Canyon Zoning Ordinance. The
An amendment to the existing         ordinance originates from Salt Lake County Code adopted for
municipal code: Chapter 19.73        Emigration Canyon in 2012, prior to Emigration Canyon’s
Foothills and Canyons Site           incorporation as a municipality in 2017.
Development and Design
                                     The proposed ordinance amendment complies with general
Standards .110 night lighting.
                                     guidance and Work Program elements of the Emigration Canyon
File Number OAM2023-000912           General Plan. The intent of the ordinance is: to encourage lighting
                                     practices that minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and
Project Type: Repeal and
                                     sky glow to preserve and enhance views of the night sky; to
Replace of Text Ordinance            maintain the rural atmosphere and community character of the
Areas Affected: Emigration           Metro Township; to protect ecological conditions and nocturnal
Canyon Metro Township                wildlife within the Metro Township; to maintain nighttime safety,
                                     utility, and security; and to encourage lighting practices that
Key Findings:                        promote energy conservation.
•   Uncontrolled night lighting is
                                     MSD Staff has worked extensively with the Emigration Canyon
    negatively affecting EC
                                     Planning Commission, as well as with the Emigration Canyon
    residents, the environment,
                                     Community Council, Utah IDA, the Salt Lake County Audubon
    and the community                Society, and professional partners to develop ordinance language
    character.                       that promotes the effective use of night lighting and discourages
•   Current ordinance language       lighting practices that can create negative impacts such as light
    fails to provide a regulatory    pollution, light trespass, glare, and sky glow.
    mechanism to control night
    lighting.                                               ATTACHMENTS
•   Revised language will
                                     The following attachments are included as supplementary
    mitigate negative effects by
                                     materials to the end of this staff report:
    regulating the appropriate       1.       ECMT_ Municipal Code 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
    use of night lighting.           2.       ECMT_ Night Lighting Flyer_11x17
Staff Recommendation:
                                     3.       ECMT_ Night Lighting Poster – 24x36
                                     4.       ECMT_ Night Lighting Presentation
Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council repeal and
replace ordinance language
amendments to Chapter 19.73
FOOTHILLS AND CANYONS SITE
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN
STANDARDS .110 NIGHT
LIGHTING.


             Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 1 of 10
                                            BACKGROUND
Project Purpose:

To mitigate the potential negative effects of uncontrolled night lighting, Emigration Canyon planning staff
have engaged with the Planning Commission to develop a more robust Night Sky Ordinance that is
intended to amend the existing municipal code 19.73.110, Night Lighting. Regular progress reports have
been made to the Planning Commission and feedback has been integrated. The Ordinance Language was
recommended for adoption with revision by the Planning Commission on May 11, 2023. The draft shared
in coordination with this report, ECMT - Municipal Code 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING, has incorporated all
revisions recommended.


Project Timeline:




Methodology:

Development of the ordinance language for the Night Lighting Ordinance amendment was approached in
three general phases: Phase 1 - Analysis of Resources, Phase 2 - Review of Existing Ordinances, and Phase
3 - Revision, Tailoring, and Review.

Phase 1 – Analysis of Resources
The initial analysis relied heavily on general resources on Dark Sky lighting that have been made available
by various advocacy organizations, educational institutions, and municipalities. The following is a list of


               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 2 of 10
resources that were found to be most useful:
•       Dark Sky Lighting Ordinance Walkthrough
        o Colorado Platea Dark Sky Cooperative -
            https://utah.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapSeries/index.html?appid=1cb7caaa1aa543dea3c813ec9f1f7f93#
•       International Dark-Sky Association
        o Model Lighting Ordinance - https://www.darksky.org/our-work/lighting/public-policy/mlo/
        o Five Principles for Responsible Outdoor Lighting - https://www.darksky.org/our-
            work/lighting/lighting-principles/
        o Board Policy on the Application of the Lighting Principles - https://www.darksky.org/wp-
            content/uploads/bsk-pdf-manager/2021/08/BOARD-policy-application-of-light-FINAL-June-24-
            2021.docx.pdf
•       USU Extension - Gateway & Natural Amenity Region (GNAR) Initiative
        o Planners & Decision Makers Toolkit -
            https://www.usu.edu/gnar/tools/dark_sky_tools/planners_and_decisionmakers
•       Utah Workforce Services – Housing and Community Development Office
        o Guidance and Best Practices – Dark Sky Planning -
            https://cpdarkskies.files.wordpress.com/2020/02/dark-sky-web-_2-7-2020-2.pdf
•       Town of Alta Dark Sky Presentation
        o https://townofalta.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Welcome-Dark-Sky.pdf


Phase 2 - Review of Existing Ordinances
Having reviewed this general information, Planning Staff then moved to an analysis of existing Night
Lighting Ordinances. Emphasis was placed on trying to identify communities with similar populations, and
land use, and especially in identifying communities that shared similar topographic conditions to those of
the Emigration Canyon. The review identified elements of the individual ordinance language that were
considered appropriate for conditions found in Emigration Canyon. These elements were then cobbled
together to create a working draft that would then be tailored to meet conditions in the community. The
following is a list of Case Studies found to be the most useful for Emigration Ordinance Language.
•       Model Lighting Ordinance User’s Guide
        o U.S. Green Building Council
        o https://www.usgbc.org/resources/model-lighting-ordinance-users-guide
•       Torrey, Utah
        o Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2016
        o https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/torreyut/latest/torrey_ut/0-0-0-1035
•       Moab City
        o Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2019
        o https://moabcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/2836/City-of-Moab-Outdoor-Lighting-Ordinance-2019-03
•       Grand County
        o Outdoor Lighting Ordinance 2019
        o https://moabcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/2840/Grand-County-Lighting-Ordinance
•       Eagle Canyon
        o Outdoor Lighting Standards 2014
        o https://www.codepublishing.com/UT/EagleMountain/#!/EagleMountain17/EagleMountain1756.html%23
            17.56
•       Sedona
        o Outdoor Light Ordinance
        o https://www.darksky.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/Sedona_Lighting_Ordinance.pdf

Phase 3 - Revision, Tailoring, and Review
Having compiled a working draft, Planning Staff and the Planning Commission then worked together to
revise and tailor the draft to the conditions found in Emigration Canyon. One of the primary issues of

               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 3 of 10
concern was the unique topographical conditions found within the canyon. The presence of consistent
steep slopes and ridgelines within the municipality required the creation of solutions intended to limit
light trespass and nuances created by elevation changes between neighboring homes. Solutions include
articulating more clearly where lighting may be mounted on structures, reducing the use of high-intensity
spotlights, and encouraging the use of functional motion detectors on security lights.

Another issue unique to the canyon addressed during the tailoring process was a lack of consistency in
the size and shape of residential properties found within the community. Many communities base night
lighting limitations on the size of the lot. In Emigration Canyon this could lead to homes of similar size
having very different allowances for night lighting use. As an alternative to this regulating approach,
lighting experts from Clayton and Associates Lighting Design and Engineering suggested utilizing an
approach that correlated the lighting limitation for each property with the amount of hardscape present
in the landscaping or landscape plan for the property. Establishing a limitation in this way, the use of light
is regulated by the intended uses the property owner has planned for the property, rather than the size
of the lot. This encourages residents to utilize light when and where it is needed, rather than maximizing
their potential for ubiquitous lighting coverage. A transcript of this communication is included in the
Document Comment and Response History section of this Staff Report.

During the tailoring process, Planning Staff and the Planning Commission were careful to ensure that the
lighting required to provide for the safety of Emigration Canyon residents would not be impeded by the
proposed night lighting limitations. A variety of resources were referenced to identify safety and
desirability tolerances for the types of activities and conditions expected to be encountered day to day
and during extenuating circumstances. The ordinance language provides residents with sufficient lighting
to illuminate entrances and pathways, as well as typical activities hosted on properties such as outdoor
gatherings and activities, and allows for regulating and emergency authorities to utilize lighting they find
necessary. A list of some of these resources is included in the Document Comment and Response History
section of this Staff Report.

State Code Requirements:

State Code §10-9a-Part 5 establishes powers and limitations related to municipal land use ordinances.
This Section was referenced frequently by staff as they prepared drafted ordinances.

Decision-Making Authority:

Section 10-9a-501:503 outlines the process for preparing and adopting municipal land use ordinances.
The Planning Commission is responsible for holding a public hearing to consider any proposed land use
ordinance or amendment. The hearing must be noticed consistent with State Code §10-9a-205. Following
the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a recommendation to the Council regarding the
adoption of the drafted ordinances. Only the Council (as the legislative body) can make a final decision on
the ordinances.

Sections:

Emigration Canyon Metro Township MUNICIPAL CODE: 19.73.110 NIGHT LIGHTING
19.73.110 – Purpose.
19.73.111 – Definitions.
19.73.112 – Scope and Applicability.

               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 4 of 10
19.73.113 – Standards.
19.73.114 – Night Lighting Limitations.
19.73.115 – Specialized Outdoor Lighting.
19.73.116 – Prohibited Lighting.
19.73.117 – Towers.
19.73.118 – Application and Review Procedures.
19.73.119 – Appeals, Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties.


Existing Conditions:

The unique topography within Emigration Canyon leaves residents uniquely vulnerable to the unintended
consequences of uncontrolled night lighting. Abrupt elevation changes exaggerate the effects of light
pollution, light trespass, and glare, by allowing the effects of night lighting choices to travel unimpeded
onto adjacent properties as well as properties any number of properties across the canyon.

The current code is composed of illustrated suggestions regarding night lighting. Concepts such as using
shielding and directing light down are shared, but no regulatory mechanisms have been established that
control the total amount of light used when it is appropriate to use night lighting, or where and how to
direct lighting. The current ordinance language lacks any enforcement language that would establish
when night lighting is being used inappropriately or how the inappropriate use would be resolved.

Proposed Solution:

To the proposed solution is to control the use of night lighting between the hours of one hour after dusk
until 6:00 am the following morning. It is the opinion of the planning staff that controlling nighttime
lighting use through the amendment of the existing Night Sky Ordinance will support the current land use
expectations expressed within the canyon by reinforcing the naturalistic and rural character of the
community.

Unique standards exist for properties containing:
   •      Residential | Single-Family Detached Housing Units
   •      Residential | Multi-Family Housing Units
   •      Commercial, Government, and Religious Institutional Uses

Key Revisions:

Several revisions have been made to the draft ordinance to accommodate input received from the
Planning Commission on May 23, 2023.

Modifications requiring a Building Permit:
Language had previously read:

If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of fifty percent (50%) or more of the property
value at the time of submittal, a lighting plan for the property shall be submitted subject to the
requirements in Section 19.73.118.

Language has been adjusted to read:

               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 5 of 10
If the proposed structural modifications represent a value of fifty percent (50%) or more of the building
value at the time of submittal, a lighting plan for the property shall be submitted subject to the
requirements in Section 19.73.118.

Government Properties:
Government Properties definition was added to the 19.73.111 – Definitions section. The wording
“Government Properties” has been included in all sections regulating lighting in commercial and religious
institutions.

        Government Properties: Includes any form of real or personal property in which the National, State,
        County, or local government has an ownership, leasehold, or other property interest as well as a right
        or other intangible interest that is purchased with Government funds, including the services of contractor
        personnel. by National, State, County, or local government institutions.

Holiday Lighting:
19.73.113.B.1.i.i, regulates the period decorative lighting can be utilized during holidays. Language has
been adjusted to read:

        The period of time between Thanksgiving Day and January 8th each calendar year;
        and…

Exemption for the American Flag:
Research:
National guidelines tend to recommend sunsetting and raising the flag as a preferred method of display.
However, if it is desired that the flag be flow at night, it should be illuminated.

United States Code, Title 36, Chapter 10
       §174. Time and occasions for display

        (a) Display on buildings and stationary flagstaffs in open; night display

        It is the universal custom to display the flag only from sunrise to sunset on buildings
        and on stationary flagstaffs in the open. However, when a patriotic effect is desired,
        the flag may be displayed twenty-four hours a day if properly illuminated during the
        hours of darkness.


Precedents:
Various approaches to allowing for the lighting of the US and other national flags are taken in the
municipal ordinances researched for this effort. Allowances for lighting the flag from above as well as from
blow are articulated. Tolerances for flag lighting run from 1,300 lumens to 450 lumens. Controls for light
spill and trespass very.

The ordinance language developed allows for the lighting of the flag from above as well as from below.
Conditions are established that limit total light use to 450 lumens, and require the light source for lighting
at the ground level not to be visible from a distance of greater than 5 ft.


                Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 6 of 10
Ordinance Language in the standards section has been amended as follows below:
19.73.113 - Standards.

   B.   Allowable Applications.
        j. Lighting for the U.S. flag.

            i.   It is preferred that the U.S. flag not be illuminated and that the traditional raising of the
                 flag after dawn and lowering of the flag before sunset be utilized.
            ii. The U.S. flag may be illuminated from above, provided all the following conditions are
                 met:
                 (a) The fixture must shine down at 90° and be fully shielded.
                 (b) The total number of lumens output from any light fixture mounted on top of a
                       flagpole is limited to 450 lumens.
            iii. The U.S. flag may be illuminated from below, provided all the following conditions are
                 met:
                 (a) Flag lighting shall use not more than two (2) fixtures, such fixtures to project narrow
                       beams of light only on the flag.
                 (b) Flag lighting shall not utilize more than 450 total lumens.
                 (c) Light sources shall not trespass or be visible from more than five feet (5') measured
                       horizontally from the center of the light source at three feet (3') above grade.
            iv. All flag poles and mounts installed for flying the U.S. flag shall be limited to 25 ft. in
                 height measured from the ground plane to the top of the pole or Mount.
                 (a) Flag poles shall be set back from property lines at a distance equal to two and one-
                       half (2.5) times the height of the pole.

                                            STAFF ANALYSIS
Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:

Language about protecting and promoting the health and long-term sustainability of the natural
environment in the Canyon is a consistent theme throughout the General Plan document. There are also
many instances in which the connection between the quality of the night sky environment and ecological
and community health is identified. Amendments to the existing dark sky ordinance are supported by the
General Plan Work Program. The following is an excerpt from the General Plan Work Program, which
outlines the creation and enactment of a Dark Sky Ordinance as an Immediate and Ongoing action item.

Chapter 5: Environment Work Program (Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022 pg. 144-145)
Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are functional and diverse.
Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protection for nocturnal wildlife.
Actions: a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky-compliant light pollution control ordinance.
Lead(s): MSD Planning and Development Services, PC, EC Metro Township
Timeline: Immediate and ongoing
Cost: Staff time
Metric: Ordinance enacted
Resources: See also objective 2.3.2a

Integration of Stakeholder and Public Engagement:


                 Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 7 of 10
During the process of ordinance drafting, updates were shared with the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Community Council and Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council.

A Public Hearing was held by the planning commission on May 11th, 2023, to allow the public to comment
on the Night Lighting Ordinance amendment. The Planning Commission received very little response from
the public. Some recommendations for ordinance language revision were made by Planning Commission
members. These revisions have been incorporated in the Ordinance Language presented along with this
staff report.

Consistency with State Code Requirements:

Emigration Canyon Metro Township has the authority to adopt amendments to ordinance language
controlling night lighting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, (“MLUDMA”), Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code, allowing them
to encourage lighting practices that minimize light pollution, glare, light trespass, and skyglow to preserve
and enhance views of the night sky.

Anticipated Impacts:

Adoption of the Dark Sky Ordinance would potentially create non-conforming properties within
Emigration Canyon Metro Township. However, the ordinance, as drafted, is clear that existing
development would not need to bring existing lighting, and lighting fixtures into compliance with the new
standards until five (5) years after the adoption date of the ordinance.

Effective upon adoption all property owners will need to conform to the following standards:
    •   Night Lighting Curfew
             o Turn off all outdoor lighting not in use one hour after sundown.
                       This includes decks, patios, gathering spaces, and recreational & parking areas.
             o Pathway & entrance lighting may remain on as required to provide safe entrance to any
                 structure.
    •   Light Trespass
             o Lighting from your property may not illuminate areas outside your property boundary.
                       This may require you to turn off, redirect, shield, or defuse some lighting on your
                           property.
    •   Holiday, Special Event, & Temporary Lighting
             o Do not: Use spotlights, lasers, or high-intensity lighting.
             o Do: Direct all lighting below the horizontal plane (down), ensure that all lighting remains
                 within the property boundary
             o Limit display times to a 7-day period, and between Thanksgiving Day & January 8th the
                 following year.
    •   MSD Citizen Problem Reporter
             o The above issues are appropriate to report using the MSD Citizen Problem Reporter under
                 the Code Enforcement Problems option.
    •   All lighting fixtures installed after the adoption of the ordinance, as a replacement fixture or
        otherwise, will need to comply with ordinance standards.
             o Any light fixture that is replaced, destroyed, damaged, or modified, must be replaced by
                 a light fixture that is fully Shielded / Full Cutoff Fixture.


               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 8 of 10
All new development, and significant property or structural modifications representing 50% or more of
the building value at the time of application, would be required to meet all adopted standards, including
submitting a Lighting Plan along with the building permit process.

Effective upon adoption all property owners post the 5-year Amortization Period:
    •   Updating Lighting
            o As you replace luminaires and lighting fixtures, choose Full Cutoff Replacements.
            o All lighting should be Fully Shielded or Full Cutoff Fixtures in the canyon within 5 years of
                the of the adoption of this ordinance.
    •   Lighting Limitations
            o Each residence will be limited in the amount of lighting that can be utilized on the
                property.
            o This limit is established by the total sqft of hardscape (non-organic horizontal surfaces
                intended for walking or gathering) on the property. No more than one candle foot should
                be utilized per sq. ft. of hardscape. Candle feet and lumens bare a close relationship. Aim
                for a lumen output that matches the sqft. of space, you are intending to light.

Key Takeaways for Residents:
    •   Lighting that is turned off while not illuminating an area that is currently in use is considered
        compliant. This means that compliance can be accomplished through an alteration of use and may
        not require the purchase or update of any lighting fixture.

In analyzing the ordinance as drafted, staff finds that:

    •       The Metro Township has the authority to regulate lighting standards through the municipal
            powers granted to it in State Code;
    •       Drafting of the ordinance has involved extensive input from the Planning Commission,
            including discussion at meetings throughout 2022-2023;
    •       The ordinance advances the vision and goals of the adopted Emigration Canyon General
            Plan; and
    •       The ordinance incorporates best practices in Night Lighting and Dark Sky Conservation.



                                    STAFF RECOMMENDATION
MSD Planning Staff has thoroughly reviewed the drafted Chapter 19.73 FOOTHILLS AND CANYONS SITE
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS .110 NIGHT LIGHTING. In addition, the draft was sent to legal
counsel Adam Long for comment. Based on their review and analysis, staff finds that:
   1. Amended ordinance language will be an effective regulatory tool to reduce the undesirable
        consequences of light pollution, trespass, glare, and skyglow within the Metro Township.
   2. Amended ordinance language provides Metro Township residents and property owners with clear
        expectations on the appropriate use of night lighting and promotes the use of lighting that is
        useful, targeted, at low levels, controlled, and warmer in color.
   3. Amended ordinance language provides residents and property owners within the township an
        opportunity to address the negative effects of uncontrolled night lighting they may experience or
        be experiencing.


               Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 9 of 10
 Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action: Staff recommends that the Council
 make a motion to repeal and replace Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting with the draft
 presented in Attachment 1, incorporating any revisions as determined necessary following the Council
 discussion.

                                               NEXT STEPS
Following the adoption of the ordinance, MSD Planning Staff and community leaders will need to support
MSD Code Enforcement as they adapt to the requirements of the new ordinance language. This will be
the first ordinance requiring the use of digital light meters, as well as the first ordinance that will require
Code Enforcement Staff to perform their duties outside of typical “daytime” hours.

The promotion of voluntary compliance with the purpose and intent of the Ordinance Amendment will
be key to the successful implementation and regulation of night lighting in the canyon. Dark Skys and
Night Lighting have been identified by the General Plan and community leaders as an issue that is
important to the character of the community and the comfort and health of the community members and
the natural environment. MSD Staff will work with the Planning Commission, Township Council, and
Community Council to support the distribution of the informational content included in the attachments.

As part of this effort, MSD Staff and Emigration Canyon have benefited from the support and collaboration
of organizations such as the Great Salt Lake Audubon Society and the Utah Chapter of the International
Dark Sky Association. These partners have expressed interest in the potential use, adaptation, and
distribution of our ordinance language and accompanying infographic content. With the council’s blessing,
MSD Staff can share our results with these partners and encourage other communities to adopt similar
standards.




              Municipal Code: 19.73.110 Night Lighting / File Number: OAM2023-000912 | Page 10 of 10
