CITY OF HOLLADAY
  GENERAL PLAN
    2016‐2031
         Adopted July 14, 2016
  *Amended November 2019 – Chp. 3 and Chp. 5 (MIH)
     *Amended October 2020 – Land Use Map 2.3
       *Amended December 2020 – Chp 2 (MIH)
      *Amended September 2022 – Chp 5 (MIH)
        *Revision February 2023 – Chp 5 (MIH)
Acknowledgements                               Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
                                               Tosh Kano, Public Works
                                               Clarence Kemp, P.E., City Engineer
MAYOR
Robert M. Dahle
                                               WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL
                                               Val John Halford, WFRC
CITY COUNCIL
Sabrina Petersen – District 1
                                               CONULTANTS, LANDMARK DESIGN TEAM
Lynn Pace – District 2
                                               Mark Vlasic, AICP, PLA, ASLA, LEED Green Assoc.
Patricia Pignanelli – District 3
                                               – Landmark Design
Steven H. Gunn – District 4
                                               Jan Striefel, AICP, PLA, FASLA – Landmark
Mark Stewart. – District 5
                                               Design
                                               Lisa Benson, PLA, ASLA, LEED Green Assoc. –
PLANNING COMMISSION
                                               Landmark Design
Matt Snow, Chair
                                               Susan Becker, AICP – Zions Bank Public Finance
Jim Carter, Vice Chair
                                               Scott Aylett – Zions Bank Public Finance
Spence Bowthorpe
                                               Tim Sullivan – InterPlan Company
Jan Bradshaw
                                               Kai Tohinaka – InterPlan Company
Les Chatelain
                                               Andrea Olson ‐ InterPlan Company
John Garver
Chris Jensen
                                               NOTES
                                                  This General Plan document is based on the
PLAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBERS
                                                  larger General Plan Update Study produced
Connie Anderson
                                                  by the City’s consultant team headed by
Lisa Blakemore
                                                  Landmark Design Inc. The Study, which is
John Bradshaw
                                                  composed of more detailed and in‐depth
Gene Carr
                                                  information, is a companion document to
Les Chatelain, Planning Commission
                                                  the General Plan and is codified as part of
Dave Chisolm
                                                  this effort as Appendix A, of the General
Elaine Craven
                                                  Plan.
Vickie Eastman
Paul Fotheringham
                                                  The General Plan was funded by the City of
Elizabeth Giraud
                                                  Holladay and a generous LPRP grant from
Steve Gunn, City Council
                                                  the Wasatch Front Regional Council, Salt
Greg Hoole
                                                  Lake’s regional planning and transportation
Lori Khodadad
                                                  agency.
Chad Mullins
Jim Palmer, City Council
Rob Radcliffe
Matt Snow, Planning Commission
Brad Wright
Betty Yannowitz

CITY STAFF
Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Pat Hanson, City Planner
Holly Smith, Grants and Projects Coordinator


                                                                                             2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1:     Introduction and Background                                         4

Chapter 2:     Land Use, Urban Design, and Neighborhood Preservation               9

Chapter 3:     Transportation Network                                              23

Chapter 4:     Economic Stability and Resilience                                   40

Chapter 5:     Moderate Income Housing                                             47

Chapter 6:     Parks, Recreation, Trails, and Open Space                           52

Chapter 7:     Public Services/Facilities                                          59

Chapter 8:     Natural Resources and Sustainability                                65

Chapter 9:     Small Area Master Plans                                             72

Appendix A‐ Moderate Income Housing Reporting, Holladay City General Plan Update Study




                                                                                         3
Chapter 1‐ Introduction and Background                             City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
INTRODUCTION

This Holladay General Plan – 2016 ‐ 2031 is intended to guide future development and growth according
to broad goals and visions for Holladay during the next 10 to 15 years. The adoption of a general plan is
mandated by Utah State code and must contain three specific elements; 1) a land use element, 2) a
transportation element, and 3) a plan for the inclusion of moderate income housing. A city may include
those other elements that it deems necessary. Under Utah State Code, all public uses must conform to
the City's General Plan. As to private property, a general plan is an advisory document, unlike the Land
Use and Development Regulations, or zoning ordinance, which requires strict compliance.

The elements of this general plan, as outlined below, are tools to help evaluate land use, transportation
and traffic, quality of life and livability, infrastructure needs, and other components of the City’s future
growth patterns.

The community of Holladay has grown from a distant outpost occupied by the Mississippi Company
pioneers into its recent designation as one of the most recently incorporated municipalities in the Salt
Lake Valley. The boundary of Holladay has changed several times since the original General Plan was
adopted in 1999, accommodating several adjacent unincorporated areas into the City. With these
dramatic annexation changes, the City's future growth patterns have needed to change to
accommodate the increase in land and people. Therefore a new General Plan document was requested
by the City Council. This plan is intended to implement the vision of the City's future.

VISION STATEMENT

The City of Holladay is a community composed of unique neighborhoods that exist in harmony with the
environment, history, and culture of the area. Holladay is a community with high quality schools and is a
place where residents and visitors can enjoy the City’s natural amenities and open space, as well as its
built environments and cultural amenities.

The vision of the City’s future development, articulated in this General Plan, supports high‐ quality,
responsible growth that is sensitive to the City’s unique history, character and environment while inviting
new development and directed change. Any future changes should contribute to the growth and
redevelopment of a community that is primarily residential in nature, culturally diverse, economically
viable, and environmentally sustainable. Future changes should also enhance the walkability within the
community, and foster a high quality of life for all its citizens.

The primary goal of this General Plan is to provide clear and accurate policies that will help the City
make important planning decisions in the future as envisioned above. In order to achieve this goal, the
plan has been formulated to meet the following objectives:

    OBJECTIVE 1: To strive for fiscal and environmental sustainability.
    OBJECTIVE 2: To guide, direct, and address future development and other physical changes.



                                                                                                             4
Chapter 1‐ Introduction and Background                             City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



    OBJECTIVE 3: To protect and preserve the existing character of the community and incorporate
    new priorities for the future.
    OBJECTIVE 4: To create a vision for the future of the community and to meet the needs of an
    evolving demographic situation through careful land use and transportation changes.

To meet these objectives, the general plan and its supporting study describe existing conditions, analyze
important community issues and ideas, and propose a future vision and direction for the City. In order
to ensure the General Plan accurately represents the anticipated future, a comprehensive public
involvement process was utilized to capture the ideas and vision of the citizens of Holladay.

The General Plan is composed of nine chapters which serve as a guide for future development.
    1. Introduction and Background
    2. Land Use, Urban Design, and Neighborhood Preservation
    3. Transportation Network and Streets
    4. Economic Stability and Resilience
    5. Moderate Income Housing
    6. Parks, Recreation, Trails, and Open Space
    7. Public Services/Facilities
    8. Natural Resources and Sustainability
    9. Small Area Master Plans

Although each chapter is specific in its focus, all eight chapters are intended to work as a coordinated
system. Specific recommendations are provided in each chapter as a series of Goals, Policies, and
Implementation Measures to help guide the City's future growth and are based on the demographic
data gathered and public input detailed in the supporting General Plan Study documents.

BACKGROUND

The City of Holladay incorporated in 1999 after years of petitioning and debate, soon after creating, then
adopting, its first General Plan in June 2000. The original General Plan has subsequently been amended
five times during the ensuing fifteen years, in March 2005, March 2006, September 2006, October 2007,
and most recently in February 2012. The boundary of Holladay has also changed several times since the
original General Plan was adopted. The key area additions are as follows:
      Annexation of the North Holladay/Olympus Heights/Sunnyside Heights area into the City in
         2002/2003, which extends from Highland Drive to 2700 East and 3900 South to 4500 South;
      Annexation of the Highland Drive/Van Winkle area into the city in 2005, which added the area
         along Highland Drive from Murray Holladay Road south to Van Winkle Expressway; and, most
         recently;
      Annexation of the Olympus Hills neighborhood, which extends from 3900 South to 4500 South
         and between 2700 East and I‐215, which was finalized in January 2015.

All told, these annexations increased the total city area to just over 8 square miles, which is an increase
of approximately 70% from the original City area. With recent changes to annexation/incorporation
policies for Salt Lake County in the 2015 Legislature, it is unlikely the City boundaries will change in the
future. Map 1.1 shows the current city boundary and the annexation areas with the pertinent years.




                                                                                                               5
Chapter 1‐ Introduction and Background   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 1.1: Annexations




                                                                                   6
Chapter 1‐ Introduction and Background                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT ‐‐ 2014‐2015
Establishing the community vision is a critical step to ensure the General Plan accurately represents the
anticipated future. A comprehensive public involvement process including print media, social networks,
the City’s website, including a link to the Landmark Design Inc. website, temporary banners around City
Hall, and several outreach activities by City staff was utilized to help meet this goal. Multiple options
were provided to gather input as the new General Plan was drafted. The following is a summary of the
process.

A public meeting was held early in the process to help define community needs, issues, concerns, and
preferences. The meeting took place at Holladay City Hall in November 2014. Turnout was relatively
low, with approximately 19 people in attendance. The detailed results of this meeting are documented
in Appendix A of the General Plan Study document.

A” Plan Advisory Committee” was established in the early stages of the project, consisting of a broad
variety of stakeholders, City Staff, Administrators, and elected and appointed officials. This group of
nearly 30 advisors provided a deep level of guidance, thoughtful input, and review as the plan was
developed. The Planning Team met with the Plan Advisory Committee December 2014, February, and
May 2015. Plan Advisory Committee members also provided comment via email throughout the
planning process.

A General Plan Alternatives Workshop was held in February of 2015. This event was also sparsely
attended. However, the input gathered from those who participated was rich and varied. The workshop
began with a presentation that summarized the existing conditions analysis and presented key ideas to
consider for the General Plan. The public hearing on July 21st, 2015, resulted in a few public comments
regarding the document. This hearing was kept open on each Planning Commission agenda until a
recommending vote was taken in December 2015 to send the Plan to the City Council.

In order to distribute planning information and receive broad involvement and advice for the General
Plan, the City of Holladay General Plan webpage was established. The webpage was well used by
members of the public, the Plan Advisory Committee, and other interested persons.

POPULATION AND POPULATION CHANGE
The City of Holladay has a relatively small population compared to surrounding areas, but has
experienced above average change over the past 15 years, due mostly to annexations. The City has
expanded 86 percent from a population of 14,561 residents in 2000 to approximately 31,413 residents
by 2015. In a strictly statistical calculation, the average annual growth rate (AAGR) in Holladay between
2000 and 2015 can be set at 4.9 percent. However, if the populations of each of the annexation areas
are reviewed from the 2000 census data, regardless of whether the areas were actually in the City in
2000, the population growth is less than 1 percent.
        Population growth from incorporation to present is:
     In 2000 the population from the US Census was 14,561
     In 2002, the North Holladay/Olympus Heights Annexation added 5,860
     In 2003 the Sunnyside Heights Annexation added 756
     In 2005, the Highland/Van Winkle Annexation added 6,301
     In 2010 the population from the US Census was 26,461

                                                                                                            7
Chapter 1‐ Introduction and Background                                   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         In 2015, the Olympus Hills Annexation added 3,655
         At the end of 2015 the Governors Office of Planning and Budget estimates the total population
          at 31,413

As of this writing, the projected Annual Average Growth Rate through 2040 in the City of Holladay is
projected to be less than one percent, as the City is primarily built‐out. Future increases in population
will primarily result from re‐development of existing properties.

DEMOGRAPHICS
The following is a demographic snapshot of Holladay’s residents with comparisons to nearby
communities and Salt Lake County.

TABLE 1.1: DEMOGRAPHICS‐2010‐ 2014 5YEAR ACS ESTIMATES
                                                    Cottonwood                Salt Lake
                                         Holladay                Murray
                                                    Heights                   County
 Population Est.                         31,413     34,166       46,746       1,063,670
 Average Household size                  2.65       2.68         2.56         3.01
 Median age                              38.5       35.6         34.9         31.2
 Median household income                 $72,827    $76,630      $53,759      $60,555
 Per capita income                       $40,211    $38,477      $29,013      $26,747
 Population in workforce with a
                                         51.5%      46.8%        30.0%        31.0%
 Bachelor’s Degree or higher

From the table above it is clear that, in comparison, Holladay citizens are slightly older, live in smaller
households, have a higher than average per capita household income, and are well‐educated.

In order for the General Plan to continue being relevant for years to come, it should be reviewed and
updated regularly. Modifications and amendments should be carefully evaluated to determine how
they affect the greater vision expressed in the plan. Changes should therefore be considered during
special meetings entirely devoted to that process that provide the time and focus necessary to fully
understand and evaluate the impact of proposed changes. This will help ensure that the General Plan is
not compromised as a result of hasty decisions, development pressure, or inadequate information.

Currently, several Small Area Master Plans for specific areas of the City have been adopted as
appendices of the overall General Plan. The various Small Area Master Plans are intended to be re‐
adopted as part of this plan, however several are currently under review and updates to these master
plans are anticipated in the near future.




                                                                                                                   8
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 2: LAND USE, URBAN DESIGN and
           NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION
                                                                                   *Amended December 2020

INTRODUCTION

This element of the General Plan provides policy direction and guidance for land use decisions, urban
design, and neighborhood preservation. It also includes a Future Land Use Map and addresses the
image, character, and livability of the City.

The goals of this element are designed to:
    1. Maintain the established pattern of development in the City;
    2. Ensure that new developments are high quality and compatible with the surrounding
             neighborhoods;
    3. Retain the natural character of the City and its neighborhoods; and
    4. Ensure that the zoning ordinance meets the goals expressed in this General Plan.

A list of implementation strategies supporting these goals is included at the end of this chapter.

LAND USE AND PHYSICAL FORM OF HOLLADAY

The City of Holladay has transitioned from a lightly populated agricultural settlement to a nearly
built‐out bedroom community. The physical structure of the City is unique. Older neighborhoods reflect
their coveted location along the edges of the Big Cottonwood Creek. Newer neighborhoods exhibit
more typical suburban patterns. Other features that define the character of the City include the
following:
      The lack of a discernible street grid typical of other valley centers;
      Creeks and canals that wind through the maze of lowland cottonwood forests;
      Sinuous public and private lanes that connect residential areas and commercial developments in
        a gentle, lived‐in fashion;
      Long connecting roadways that provide access to heavily‐wooded private lanes that lead to
        large‐lot single‐family estates;
      Large and deep residential lots which provide significant private open space;
      A semi‐rural character with continuing agricultural uses including orchards, vegetable gardens,
        horses and other livestock;
      Finely‐detailed walls and fences, mature vegetation, and high‐quality landscaping that provide
        privacy and transition between neighborhoods;
      A variety of housing styles and types;
      Distinct neighborhoods; and
      Diverse commercial and mixed use districts including the historic commercial center of the city
        known as the Holladay Village, Holladay Crossroads area and the Holladay Hills redevelopment
        area formerly known as the Cottonwood Mall. Together, these features help establish the
        unique "sense of place” that makes Holladay one of the most desirable communities in the
        region.


                                                                                                            9
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



EXISTING LAND USE

The existing land uses illustrated in Map 2.1 are dominated by low‐density, single‐family residential
uses, which comprise slightly more than half of the total area (56.9‐percent). When duplexes, planned
unit developments (PUDs), and multi‐family residential uses are added to the total, residential uses
comprise just over 63% of the total land area of the City, validating the City’s primary designation as a
“bedroom community.”

 Commercial uses currently comprise only three percent of existing land area, and are generally situated
around key intersections along Highland Drive, Murray‐Holladay Road, and 6200 South. Key commercial
sites include the rapidly‐transforming Holladay Village area; the Holladay Hillsredevelopment site with
its supporting commercial areas at Highland Drive and Murray Holladay Road, and the Holladay
Crossroads, the commercial area at Highland Drive and 6200 South. The Black Diamond Campus on 3900
South is an example of several smaller, more isolated commercial sites found in the northeast quadrant
of the City. There are also a number of even smaller commercial office/mixed‐use sites that comprise
just over one percent of the total land area, the largest being the Millrock/Old Mill Village Commercial
Area, which is a Class‐A office complex located just east of Interstate 215 near 3000 East.

Other existing land uses include public buildings and facilities, schools, and churches, which together
encompass approximately five percent of the total. Open space, such as parks and public land in the
foothills cover nearly five percent, as well.

Vacant residential and commercial property, including the steep slopes of the Wasatch Mountains on
the southeast edge of the community, covers just over three percent of the City.

               Land Useas a portion of total land area
               of the city*
   56.9%       Single Family Development
    2.1%       Duplex/Twin
    4.5%       Multi-Family (3+dwelling units)
               Commercial (including the Holladay
     3.0%      Hillsredevelopment site; currently vacant)
     1.4%      Office
     0.6%      Agriculture
     3.2%      Vacant-Residential
               Vacant-Commercial (not including the
    0.1%       Holladay Hillsredevelopment site)
    5.4%       Public/Quasi-Public, including utilities
    4.6%       Open Space (Public & Private)
  ~20.0%       Roads

* The city covers approximately 8.39 square miles. The total acreage of the City is approximately 5,400 acres, including roads.
However, acreage of roads (just over 900 acres) was excluded from the GIS data layer that was used to calculate existing land
uses in the table above. Roads comprise approximately 20% of the total land area within the City.
Map 2.1, Existing Land Use




                                                                                                                                  10
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                                                            11
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



EXISTING URBAN DESIGN

Urban design describes the physical structure of the City’s history; –the function and architecture of
buildings and structures; types of roadways, trails and parks; other planned and unplanned open
spaces; community “branding”, and the preservation of the local history and ecology.

Holladay is defined by its natural cottonwood forests, riparian vegetation, as well as the nearby Mount
Olympus, linear roads and meandering lanes that crisscross the City, and the street edges lined by trees,
walls, and fences that buffer residential areas, manicured yards, and gardens. Sensitive design is the
rule rather than the exception in Holladay, with carefully conceived monuments marking key entrances
to the City and a unified signage system announcing one's arrival at the Holladay Village. The various
trails, pathways, and road edges provide public places to walk and cycle, connect neighborhoods, and
lead to nearby commercial areas and destinations.

NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION

Existing historic neighborhoods were identified by members of the public as requiring better protection
and preservation. This desire for protection extends beyond the buildings, to small town qualities such
as: mature tree canopies, large lots, historic land uses, fences, residential development along private
lanes, waterways, bridges and masonry walls. This is particularly important in older residential areas
where there is pressure to densify. Current policies regulate the teardown of older units as well as allow
homeowners to remodel or add responsible additions to their homes.

HISTORIC AREAS AND BUILDINGS

The preservation of historic places and structures ranked high in the public involvement process, and it
is an essential component of maintaining the qualities that make the City such a desirable place to live.
To help ensure that Holladay's historic resources are preserved, including land uses, sites, and buildings,
the Historic Preservation Committee (City Code 2.24.060) was established to make recommendations to
the City Council in the creation of historic districts and adoption of standards and guidelines for historic
properties.

In 2006, the Cottonwood Historic Area was established to identify and memorialize a specific portion of
the Cottonwood area known as the Brinton Ward. The portion of this historic area within Holladay is
shown on Map 2.2. The following structures and sites have been identified as being of historic
importance within the City, regardless of whether or not they are in the Cottonwood Historic Area:
David Branson Brinton home, 1981 East Murray‐Holladay Road, Holladay
    A. Santa Anna Casto home, 2731 Casto Lane, Salt Lake City, (moved to City Hall Park, 2009)
    B. George Boyes home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay
    C. William J. Bowthorpe home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Holladay
    D. Anders Hintze home, 4249 South 2300 East
    E. Brinton‐Dahl home/dairy‐1501 E Spring Lane
    F. David McDonald home‐4659 S Highland Drive
    G. Carl Peterson home‐2152 E Walker Lane
An historic walking tour was developed to encourage public knowledge and awareness of the City's
historic resources. The tour identifies historic locations, structures, markers and trees. Those locations
are found on Map 2.2.


                                                                                                            12
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 2.2, Cottonwood Historic Area




                                                                                                            13
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation    City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



KEY LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN ISSUES

After analyzing existing conditions, reviewing existing plans, and considering public input, it is clear that
the key planning issues facing the community are related to stability and change. There is general
satisfaction with the existing patterns, uses, and densities that currently exist, and the general direction
of growth. However, a certain amount of angst exists concerning new development, densification, and
the impact this might have on individual properties, neighborhoods, traffic, and the character of the
City. Since incorporation, Holladay has accomplished some major development, green space and
connectivity objectives with the development of the award winning and highly visited Holladay Village,
gateway monuments, City Hall civic center and park, Knudsen Park, bike paths and facilities, numerous
adopted masterplans and studies, and now the anticipated development of Holladay Hills into a large,
mixed‐use district.

Holladay is already different than it was in 1999. Due to expansion of the City boundaries, population
has significantly changed over time as many new residents have been added to the community. New
construction has occurred in virtually every neighborhood and commercial area of the City, representing
a major investment by property owners and businesses. Moving forward, city leaders and residents
should consider the importance of today’s land use decisions on current and future residents who will
inherit Holladay.

It is the intent of this plan to continue that general vision, which has guided development in past
decades. Significant growth pressure in Holladay, the Salt Lake Valley and the larger region already
exists and will continue as both existing and future generations seek places to work, live, shop and
recreate. The General Plan strives to accommodate new growth while protecting the development
patterns that have made Holladay a unique and desirable place to live and work. This plan recognizes
the need for a greater variety of shopping options within existing commercial areas and an improved tax
base for the community, similar to the Holladay Village model. Higher‐density residential uses have
been introduced as part of mixed‐use developments along busy streets, existing activity nodes and
adjacent to established commercial areas. This is compatible with the existing residential neighborhoods
and provides a greater range of housing options, while creating a more diverse community over time.
Preserving what is best about Holladay and avoiding the negative impacts of unplanned future growth
are the key areas of focus as the City moves forward.


FUTURE LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN CONCEPT

The City's future development patterns must include the preservation of low‐density residential
neighborhoods, protection and maintenance of historic land uses, structures and places, and the
accommodation of growth and economic development at focused locations. This goal is supported by
the land use districts as shown on Map 2.3 ‐ Future Land Use.




                                                                                                             14
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 2.3, Future Land Use




                                                                                                            15
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation     City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



To meet the overall goals of this chapter, future land use decisions should be built upon three core
principles of growth and development:
     Principle 1 ‐ Support Stable Neighborhoods
     Principle 2 ‐ Transform Key Commercial Districts into Better Functioning Destinations
     Principle 3 ‐ Redevelop Smaller Commercial Sites to Meet Future Needs


PRINCIPLE 1 – SUPPORTING STABLE NEIGHBORHOODS

Controlling change in established residential neighborhoods is particularly important. This priority is
successfully supported by the existing ordinance, which includes a range of residential zones to help
ensure that residential growth matches the vision and expectations of the community. Future residential
growth should be accommodated by the utilization of current zoning and densities and not on rezoning.

The following General Plan Districts are intended as a guide to any future zoning changes. Zone change
requests should be carefully considered to accommodate expected future growth, to ensure
neighborhood compatibility, and to prevent the destabilization of the existing neighborhoods and loss of
the existing established community character, density or intensity.

         Country Estates‐Protected (CE‐P)                    Suggested zones: R‐1‐87, R‐1‐43
          This district is intended to preserve the existing large lot development patterns, the mature tree
          canopy, and the ambience created by estate type development often on private lanes. New
          development can be appropriately accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density by
          subdivision and not by rezones.

         Low Density Residential‐Protected ( LDR‐P)                    Suggested zones: R‐1‐21
           This district is intended to preserve existing half‐acre lot development patterns, the mature tree
           canopy, and the ambience created by single‐ family development. New development should be
           appropriately accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density by subdivision and not by
           rezones.

         Low Density Residential‐Stable (LDR‐S)              Suggested Zones: R‐1‐8, R‐1‐10‐, R‐1‐15,
           This district is intended to support a mix of single‐ family residential development that has been
           established by historic development patterns. New development should be accommodated
           through utilizing unclaimed density. Rezones within the suggested zone list may be appropriate
           where increased density will not destabilize the existing neighborhood.

         Medium Density Residential‐Two Units (MDR‐T)             Suggested Zones: R‐1‐4, R‐2‐8, R‐2‐10
          This district is intended to accommodate small‐lot single family and two‐family attached unit
          development with slightly higher densities than the LDR‐S districts. New development should be
          accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density where possible. Proposed rezones within
          the suggested zone list may be appropriate where increased density will not destabilize the
          existing neighborhood.

         Medium Density Residential‐Stable (MDR‐S) Suggested Zones: RM
          This district is intended to accommodate traditional multi‐family developments where increased
          density has been previously established or where single‐family development is no longer viable.


                                                                                                              16
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation    City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



           New development should be accommodated through utilizing unclaimed density where
          possible. Proposed rezones within the suggested zone list may be appropriate where existing
          land use patterns support the increased density and do not conflict with other provisions of the
          Plan.

         Residential‐Foothills (R‐F)            Suggested Zones: FR‐1, FR‐5 and FR‐20
          This district is intended to accommodate residential developments within the Foothills and
          Canyons Overlay Zone on properties that require special review for potential slope stabilization,
          residential structure placement and natural hazards mitigation.

Lots are allowed to be subdivided when there is vacant or available land within the zone, or where
rezoning is allowed by the City Council. In recent years, pressure to subdivide properties in residential
neighborhoods has escalated. Since the impact of such changes could have significant repercussions on
the existing character and function of the City, it is envisioned that as residential development occurs,
particularly in the large‐lot zones (the one and two acre minimum zones), established land use patterns
should not materially change, and that existing density should remain.

The most significant residential land use change is likely to take place in areas earmarked for mixed‐use
and multi‐family development. Such development is supported at the Holladay Hills site, in portions of
the Holladay Village, and at the Holladay Crossroads area. Growth in this manner is expected to be most
significant at Holladay Hills and at the Holladay Crossroads area.

Higher‐density housing is also supported at other under‐utilized areas of the City, which can provide
greater housing opportunities for a wide range of income and age groups, to reside in Holladay during
all stages of their lives. Limited redevelopment of existing low density housing into a variety of housing
options are designated to occur along 3900 South, 4500 South, and portions of Highland Drive and
Murray Holladay Road. Care must be taken to ensure that modifications do not conflict with existing
residential uses.

PRINCIPLE 2 –TRANSFORMING COMMERCIAL/MIXED‐USE DISTRICTS INTO
PLACES and DESTINATIONS

Future commercial development should be limited to existing commercial sites, office sites, and areas
slated for mixed‐use redevelopment such as the Holladay Village, Holladay Hills, and the Holladay
Crossroads, the area surrounding the intersection of 6200 South and Highland Drive. Any increase in
the intensity of established commercial uses should be carefully planned to ensure compatibility with
the surrounding residential patterns. One of the primary purposes of this plan is to ensure that these
areas develop in a manner that matches both the future vision and the established patterns. The
following General Plan Districts are intended to support this principal:

         Mixed Use‐Regional Commercial (MU‐RC) ‐Suggested zones: R/M‐U
          This district is intended to support the purpose and intent of the Holladay Hills Site Development
          Master Plan (SDMP).

         Mixed Use‐Holladay Village (MU‐HV) ‐ Suggested zone: HV
          This district is intended to support the purpose and intent of the Holladay Village Master Plan.


                                                                                                             17
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation    City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         Mixed Use‐Transitional (MU‐T) / Mixed Use‐Community Commercial (MU‐CC)
          Suggested zones: See Chp. 9 Small Area Master Plans
          This district is intended to support the development of a "Small Area Master Plan" for areas such
          as the Holladay Crossroads commercial area, Black Diamond site on 3900 South and Oakmont
          Plaza on 2700 East. Future plans for the development of these areas could include a mix of
          residential and commercial uses.

         Mixed Use‐No Retail (MU‐NR) ‐ Suggested zones: RM, PO
          This district includes the area known as the "Holladay Half‐mile", that area along Murray
          Holladay Road between the Holladay Hills redevelopment area and the Holladay Village. Future
          development of this area should be guided by a "Small Area Master Plan", yet to be developed.
          Zoning in this district should allow for the integration of residential and non‐residential uses
          mixed across the district but should not encourage further development of retail uses along this
          corridor.

         Professional Office‐Commercial (PO‐C) ‐ Suggested zones: PO, ORD, , RM
          This district is intended to support the continued development of the city's economic sector and
          occurs in those areas of the city where professional offices and their associated supporting
          commercial uses are already established. Rezones in this district should only be considered if the
          proposed development enhances the existing development patterns and where any negative
          impacts on nearby residential uses are nominal or can be mitigated.

HOLLADAY VILLAGE

This area is located in the traditional downtown core of the City, which is centered at the intersection of
Holladay Boulevard and Murray Holladay Road. As detailed in the Holladay Village Master Plan, the
Holladay Village area is envisioned to be a local commercial center with integrated multi‐family
residential development to add life to the core "downtown" area. The Holladay Village (HV) zone was
created to specifically help guide development in this area, establishing the vision for downtown
Holladay. The zone includes specific standards to establish a unified and inviting overall appearance,
which has worked well for the redevelopment of Block One. This zone should be maintained, with small
modifications made to further implement the purpose and intent of the Holladay Village Master Plan.

HOLLADAY HILLS REDEVELOPMENT SITE AND THE "HOLLADAY HALF‐MILE"

The former Cottonwood Mall site, now known as Holladay Hills, has historically been Holladay’s only
regional commercial area and an important asset for the community’s tax base. Located one half‐mile
west of the Holladay Village, the mall was razed several years ago in anticipation of redeveloping the site
into a new regional mixed‐use destination.

The City of Holladay has approved a Site Development Master Plan (SDMP) for the Holladay Hills
redevelopment site, which also includes a traffic impact study. The site is zoned Regional/Mixed‐Use
(R/M‐U), a zone specifically crafted for this area, any future development of the site should be designed
to become a major mixed‐use destination including retail, entertainment, office, residential, and other
various supportive uses. The currently adopted zoning ordinance supports this general vision for the
site, and describes the type of information required for the submission and/or update of a Site
Development Master Plan (SDMP) for the area.


                                                                                                             18
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




The City envisions that, once developed, the new district will be linked with Holladay Village along the
short strip of Murray‐Holladay Road that separates the two destinations, both visually and perceptually.
Known as the "Holladay Half‐mile", the roadway and adjacent properties are envisioned to be
transformed into a pedestrian‐oriented corridor with a mix of pedestrian‐friendly, multi‐family
residential, and office uses. The transformation of the street may include design features, such as
themed street lighting, outdoor furnishings, and coordinated landscape areas. Additionally, consistent
gateway features and wayfinding elements that build upon the established stone monuments and
historic walls found in other parts of the City will give this corridor a unique ambiance.

HOLLADAY CROSSROADS: INTERSECTION OF BIG COTTONWOOD ROAD/6200 SOUTH, HIGHLAND
DRIVE, AND VAN WINKLE EXPRESSWAY

This district has the potential to become a premier commercial/mixed‐use destination. It is the only
commercial area in Holladay that has direct access to a freeway interchange. At present the area is
relatively dysfunctional and dominated by aging, suburban‐style strip malls and one‐off "commercial
pad" buildings. The area lacks continuity and the numerous parking lots are poorly coordinated, causing
confusion and making it difficult to navigate from building to building. The area is poorly signed and
lacks basic pedestrian amenities.

Due to its proximity to I‐215, the Holladay Crossroads area has been identified as a priority improvement
area for the City, with the goal of transforming it into a thriving, regional commercial, pedestrian and
bike‐friendly, mixed‐use place. Significant changes to Highland Drive, Van Winkle Expressway and 6200
South intersection may be required. At the time of this writing, the City is investigating alternative
intersection designs and has obtained approval for a triple left turn southbound from Highland Drive to
Van Winkle Expressway. . A “Small Area Master Plan” (SAMP) for the area has been adopted as an
amendment to this General Plan.

MILLROCK/OLD MILL VILLAGE COMMERCIAL AREA

The Millrock/Old Mill Village Commercial Area is the dominant office use location in Holladay, and one
of the most desirable, highest‐rent office spaces in the state of Utah. The site is zoned Office, Research
and Development (ORD) and C‐2. The area supports a mix of commercial uses that includes office,
hospitality, restaurant, banking and some retail uses, small scale medical, and an education/worship
use. New office space and/or commercial spaces should continue to build upon this successful tradition,
with high‐quality buildings designed and located in a manner that captures the ambiance of the existing
development, strengthens the local job market, and contributes to the City’s overall economy.


PRINCIPLE 3 – REDEVELOPING SMALLER SITES TO MEET FUTURE NEEDS
In addition to the transformative ideas for the larger commercial areas discussed above, there are
several smaller commercial sites that are ripe for redevelopment. Examples include the Black Diamond
campus on 3900 South and Oakmont Plaza on 2700 East. These sites are located in non‐traditional
locations for commercial operations. More evaluation is needed to determine the best use for these
sites, considering residential and mixed‐use redevelopment options. To assist with this process new and



                                                                                                            19
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation     City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



revised development controls are recommended to help convert these sites into improved assets for the
community.

The following General Plan districts are intended to support this principal:

         Mixed Use‐Community Commercial (MU‐CC) ‐ Suggested zones: C‐1, , RM, NC, RO
          This district is intended to support the introduction of mixed residential and non‐residential uses
          within the established commercial areas along Highland Drive, at the Black Diamond site on
          3900 South, and at Oakmont Plaza on 2700 East.

         Community Commercial‐Stable (CC‐S)‐ Suggested zones: C‐1, C‐2
          This district is intended to support those stable, established commercial areas where
          redevelopment may occur but where the introduction of residential uses is not necessarily
          advantageous.

HIGHLAND DRIVE ‐ LINKING DISPARATE LAND USES ALONG A BUSY STREET

A small area master plan has been adopted for Highland Drive (HDMP). The plan divides Highland Drive
into three sub‐corridors, each of which is slated to be developed in deference to the character of
surrounding neighborhoods. The HDMP recognizes the northern portions of the corridor, Segment “A”,
as having the greatest opportunity for commercial development including professional offices and
limited retail and residential development. Segment “B” limits future residential growth to no more than
five dwellings per acre (low density) and also calls for limited or no new commercial development.
Segment “C” is the area of Highland Drive from Van Winkle Expressway southward to the city boundary
at I‐215 is comprised of the Holladay Crossroads area and other additional smaller commercial uses. The
HDMP should continue to direct future growth and redevelopment of the Highland Drive corridor.

KNUDSEN'S CORNER

The Knudsen Park Master Plan for Holladay City’s property in the 6200 South/Holladay Boulevard area
was adopted in 2011, establishing a phased conversion of the area into a beautiful, historic nature park
which was completed in May of 2019. The park includes natural areas, as well as more traditionally
developed public park areas and facilities. The existing commercial uses in the area are established and
should remain a part of the area’s overall structure.

ACQUISITION AND REDEVELOPMENT OF AGING AND REDUNDANT PUBLIC USES
Public and institutional uses include schools, churches and public offices, all essential features of a
well‐rounded community. The zoning ordinance includes a Public Zone (P), which encompasses all
public and quasi‐public buildings and sites in the City. If these uses are discontinued in the future, the
zoning classification requires future developers to seek new zoning, thereby allowing the City to review
any proposed changes and to determine if the proposed change will be a good fit for the surrounding
neighborhood. If a public school closes, State law gives the City the option to purchase the property for
use as public park space.




                                                                                                              20
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation      City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



The following General Plan districts are intended to support this purpose:

         Public (P) ‐ Suggested zones: P
          This district is intended to support the continuation of those public and recreational uses
          established within the district. Any zone changes within these districts should be carefully
          considered in light of the overall health, welfare, and safety of the community.

         Open Space (OS) ‐ Suggested zones: P
          This district is intended to support the overall recreational goals set out in Chapter 6, Parks,
          Trails, and Open Space, of this General Plan.

PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES

With little available land left for new parks and recreational facility development, future
improvements should focus on retaining those facilities currently in place and increasing the
experiential qualities of each. A more detailed look at the goals for these uses can be found in
Chapter 6 of this plan.

IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES

As previously stated, the goals of this element are designed to:
     Maintain the overall established pattern of development in the City and remove barriers to the
        inclusion of affordable housing opportunities;
     Ensure that new developments are high quality in location, design, finish, energy efficiency and
        provide amenities for current and future residents of Holladay and are compatible with the
        surrounding neighborhoods;
     Retain and protect the natural environmental character of the City and its neighborhoods; and
     Ensure that the zoning ordinance meets the goals expressed in this General Plan.

In order to achieve these long‐term goals, the following implementation measures have been identified:

    1.     New development within the single‐family neighborhoods should be accomplished through
           utilization of unclaimed density. Rezone requests should be considered only where increases in
           density would not negatively impact the established development patterns in the surrounding
           neighborhood.

    2.     New non‐residential development should be contained within established or designated mixed‐
           use and commercial developments and not expanded into surrounding residential
           neighborhoods.

    3.     Identify methods and options for preserving historic buildings, and sites. Some options to be
           considered include inclusion on the Utah State and National Historic Registers or the creation of
           a Historic Conservation Area.

    4.     Establish peer‐oriented beautification and cleanup efforts throughout the City. Support these
           with official City recognition programs.


                                                                                                               21
Chapter 2‐ Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood Preservation    City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



    5.     Establish, enhance, and maintain appropriate land use, architectural and/or landscape buffers
           to protect neighborhoods from encroachment where uses transition or have incompatible
           characteristics.

    6.     Encourage new developments and redevelopment projects to provide significant
           neighborhood/community amenities where appropriate, such as local and regional trail
           connections, public plazas or gathering spaces, pedestrian access to public or commercial
           activity centers, or development of public open space.

    7.     Allow and encourage mixed‐use development at the Holladay Hills site, Holladay Village,
           Holladay Crossroads area, in addition to other key areas of the City that are transitioning from
           solely commercial to mixed‐use.

    8.     Encourage appropriate architecture to maintain aesthetic character of the City and to increase
           energy conservation and air quality. Expand the role of the Design Review Board to ensure that
           future design and development of multi‐family and commercial developments meet the goals
           of this General Plan.

    9.     Consider the application of an overlay zone along Big Cottonwood Creek to preserve the
           environmental integrity and character of the area. Improvements should include educational
           efforts that encourage affected residents to voluntarily apply the tools and concepts contained
           in the Salt Lake County Big Cottonwood Creek Guide.

    10. Review and strengthen where necessary the current regulations concerning the environmental
        integrity and character of those areas along Spring Creek, and the Salt Lake/Jordan canal
        systems, Upper Canal and other like waterways through the City.

    11. Require the planting and ongoing maintenance of street trees, landscaped parking areas, road
        verges and parking strips.

    12. Create new mixed‐use zones that allow higher‐density residential uses in established
        commercial and office zones particularly where access to parks, open space and public uses is
        desirable.

    13. Develop new standards for walls, fences, landscaping, trees bushes and other perimeter
        features, along the City's major arterials and collectors ensuring that the desire to dampen
        noise and enhance privacy on the private property side of these features is balanced with the
        need to maintain views and vistas and fit in with the historically open, green, and verdant street
        edges.

    14. Promote and strengthen the Tree Canopy Sustainability Ordinance throughout the City through
        education and publicity efforts by the Holladay Tree Committee and the City of Holladay.




                                                                                                             22
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 3: TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
                                                                                  *Amended November 2019

INTRODUCTION

Like many Wasatch Front cities with development patterns driven by the needs and possibilities of the
automobile, Holladay is and will continue to be primarily dependent on driving. But recently the City has
made significant steps toward providing other alternatives. The City’s development of Holladay Village
creates an attractive center of pedestrian activity within walking distance for many residents. The City
has been active in developing bicycle routes throughout Holladay and is pursuing further improvements.
The City of Holladay General Plan 2015 – 2030 develops a road map and provides tools to further
improve transportation alternatives, while ensuring that vehicle access and mobility in Holladay function
well. It ensures that streets are easy to navigate and uncongested while improving the City’s public
realm.

As required by Utah State Code this transportation and traffic circulation chapter includes the general
location and extent of existing and proposed streets, mass transit, and other modes of transportation
correlated with the population, housing and employment projections and the proposed land use and
housing chapters of the general plan. Transportation investment and infrastructure improvement and
decisions should be consistent with the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) as developed and adopted by
the Wasatch Front Regional Council, the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) for the Salt Lake
valley.

In particular, this chapter addresses both the ways in which Holladay residents, employees, and visitors
get around the City – the transportation network – as well as the physical space in which they move –
the streets and corridors. This chapter considers the safety, mobility, and access of all major
transportation modes – vehicles, transit, bicycles, and walking. It also considers a wide variety of uses
for Holladay streets, including for all transportation modes and as public space.


TRANSPORTATION NETWORK

The Transportation Network consists of four main elements; vehicles, transit, bicycles, and pedestrians.
Each has specific demands and design considerations. Basic transportation planning considers conflicts
that are likely to occur between different types of users and works toward creating a system that is safe
and easy to use by all. Above all, future decisions regarding improvements to the existing transportation
network should ensure the safety and interconnectivity linkages to as many areas both inside and
outside of the community as possible for its users regardless of the mode they choose when accessing
Holladay’s streets and trails. Also, these decisions must maintain and enhance, wherever possible, the
mobility and regional access for all the network’s users.

Following is a detailed look at the four elements of the City’s Transportation Network. Along with each
element is a list of specific goals for that element and some suggested implementation measures.
Additional street cross‐sections and preferred objectives for those elements are found in the Updated
General Plan Study document, Appendix A of this General Plan.



                                                                                                            23
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                         City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




VEHICLE NETWORK
As Holladay is primarily a residential community, the major element of the City’s Transportation
Network is based on the Vehicle Network, which consists of the whole street system. For the purposes
of this General Plan, the existing roadways are grouped in the following Functional Classes:
     Freeway – A divided major highway with full control of access and no at‐grade crossings. These
         are state‐owned regional routes for longer trips and need to ensure capacity of a high number
         of vehicles at high speeds.
     Expressway ‐ A divided major highway with full control of access and at‐grade crossings. These
         are regional routes, not owned by the City, with higher traffic volumes and higher vehicle
         speeds.
     Major Arterial – These routes serve as the principal network for through‐traffic or traffic
         traveling across town.
     Minor Arterial –Similar to a Major Arterial but have lower traffic volumes and operate at lower
         speeds.
     Collector –This type of route is intended to collect traffic from local and residential collectors
         and distribute them to Arterial routes.
     Primary Residential – These routes collect traffic from residential local routes and distribute
         them to Collector, and Arterial routes. These routes are intended for low volume,
         inter‐neighborhood trips, and lower speed limits.
     Secondary Residential – Routes used primarily to provide direct access to residential,
         commercial, and other abutting properties. These routes are intended for low‐volume, short
         trips, and lower speed limits.
     Private driveways, lanes and roads. Non‐publicly owned and maintained facilities used to
         provide access to and from the overall transportation network of the city.

In addition some of Holladay’s streets have state highway and truck route designations. Holladay’s
vehicle network also includes parking, though this need in Holladay is largely provided on private
property. Map 3.1 shows the General Plan Vehicle Network/Roadway Classifications.

The primary goals for the City’s Vehicle Network are to:
    1. Ensure the safety of all users;
    2. Continue to build upon and maintain the existing infrastructure;
    3. Mitigate and absorb traffic impact of new development; and
    4. Reduce impediments to convenient use of main traffic corridors and discourage cut‐through use
        of local residential streets.

The following implementation measures are suggested as a means of reaching those goals;
    1. Establish and enforce speed limits based on the street type and traffic engineering analysis.
    2. Develop school routing plans that minimize vehicle‐pedestrian conflicts.
    3. Wherever possible implement appropriate traffic calming measures.
    4. Work with City businesses and institutions to explore non‐traditional ways of reducing traffic
        volumes, such as carpooling, biking, etc.
    5. Work to balance traffic evenly over the network of arterial and collector streets and seek ways
        to achieve optimal connectivity across the network.
    6. Review and update where necessary the City’s adopted “Standard Details for Public Works
        Construction”.


                                                                                                           24
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



     7. Require all private street construction conform to the City's adopted standards.
     8. Require proposed developments to perform a Traffic Impact Study (TIS) when the proposed
         development will generate more than 100 trips per hour during peak hours.
     9. Require proposed developments to protect, preserve, and donate needed street width on
         existing or future roadways.
     10. Improve key intersections.
     11. Continue to firmly advocate for full northbound ramps on I‐215 at 4500 South as a major priority
         for Holladay's vehicular network.
     12. Advocate for I‐215/6200 South interchange modifications to adequately serve future Gravel Pit
         development in Cottonwood Heights.
     13. Integrate urban design principles with the City’s street specifications and targeted cross‐sections
         to create streetscapes that integrate:
          accessibility of Citywide destinations for all modes of travel;
          pedestrian scale; and
          key scenic vistas



MAJOR STREET CORRIDORS
Specific major street corridors in the city have significant impact on the way citizens and visitors move
through Holladay, in their automobiles, as pedestrians or as other users. Mobility or lack thereof
directly affects the land uses along each street.

For the purposes of this General Plan, the following major street corridors or sections of those street
corridors have specific, identified objectives. These should be carefully considered when designing,
developing or redeveloping along these important streets especially as it relates to existing and future,
housing, education, employment, recreation and commerce.

HIGHLAND DRIVE
Network Designations:
    Major Arterial
    Truck Route
    Priority High‐Capacity Transit Corridor
    Priority UTA bus route
    Local Bike Corridor
    Community Pedestrian Priority Corridor

Target right‐of‐way:
     80 feet

Objectives:
    Build on recommendations of the Highland Drive Master Plan.
    Make walking safe for connection between neighborhoods, centers, and schools.
    Ensure that Highland Drive near the Holladay Hills (Mall) redevelopment site can handle
        projected traffic created by new development.
    Designate Highland Drive as the City’s preferred north‐south BRT route.

                                                                                                             25
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         Consider a potential transit hub at Highland/6200 South/Van Winkle Expressway and at the
          Holladay Hills redevelopment site in conjunction with north‐south transit on Highland Drive and
          in connection with a transit route on 2300 East to the University of Utah to connect the overall
          network to this major activity node.
     
         Consider innovative way to allow bicyclists to ride safely on Highland Drive.
         Make crossings of bike routes safe for cyclists while maintaining traffic flow.
         Make Highland/6200 South/Van Winkle area safe and convenient, for cyclists to navigate.
         Make better use of the street cross section, especially the wide shoulders.
         Create a consistent streetscape that ties the corridor together.

MURRAY HOLLADAY ROAD‐East from Highland Drive to Holladay Village (Holladay Half)

Network Designations:
    Minor Arterial
    Priority UTA bus route
    Local Bike Corridor
    Regional Transportation Bike Connector
    Community Pedestrian Priority Corridor

Target right‐of‐way:
     80 feet

         Objectives: Connect Holladay Village and the Holladay Hills redevelopment site for all modes,
          especially pedestrians, cyclists and transit riders to connect the overall network to these major
          activity nodes for housing, education, employment, recreation and commerce. De‐emphasize
          vehicular traffic and encourage through traffic to use 4500 South. Make better use of the
          right‐of‐way, especially overly wide vehicle lanes. Standardize the cross section and
          right‐of‐way. Add streetscape improvements to create a walking experience known as the
          “Holladay Half‐mile.” Consider on‐street parking, especially if land use becomes more similar to
          Holladay Village. Consider addition of bike lanes. Improve transit stops. Consider possible
          special transit stop at Holladay Hills redevelopment site – in conjunction with north‐south
          transit on Highland Drive and in connection with a transit route on 2300 East to the University of
          Utah to connect the overall network to this major activity node for both housing and
          employment.


2300 EAST ‐ North of Murray Holladay Road

Network Designations:
    Minor Arterial
    Priority High‐Capacity Transit Corridor
    Priority UTA bus route
    Local Bike Corridor
    Regional Transportation Bike Corridor
    Regional Recreation Bike Corridor


                                                                                                             26
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         Community Pedestrian Priority Corridor

Target right‐of‐way:
     80 feet

Objectives:
    Emphasize important multi‐modal connection of several centers of activity in and around
        Holladay ‐ Holladay Village, Olympus High, and Millcreek Community Center.
    Make sidewalks consistent and, if possible, wider.
    Add streetscape improvements such as pedestrian‐scale lighting and street trees.
    Try to place a high‐frequency transit route (15 minute headway) from Holladay to the University
        of Utah, whether local bus or bus rapid transit to facilitate access to housing, employment,
        recreation, education and commerce nodes.
    Improve crossings of major streets such as 4500 South and 3900 South.


HOLLADAY BOULEVARD –South of Holladay Village

Network Designations:
    Minor Arterial
    Regional Transportation Bike Corridor
    Regional Recreation Bike Corridor
    Community Pedestrian Priority Corridor

Target right‐of‐way:
     80 feet

Objectives
    Keep traffic volumes at current levels to encourage safety for bicyclists and pedestrians.
    Make Holladay Boulevard’s intersection with 6200 South especially bike and pedestrian
        supportive because it is so near freeway interchange.
    Make Holladay Boulevard the City’s signature bike corridor. Holladay Boulevard is important to
        all types of riders – local riders of all abilities, regional commuters, and regional recreational
        riders.
    Develop bike hubs in Holladay Village and at Knudsen’s Corner.
    De‐emphasize transit on this corridor.
    Create an ample, safe, and consistent pedestrian environment.
    Remove truck route designation.
    Design public realm streetscape that emphasizes existing “countryside” character but provides
        consistent frame for street and supports transportation goals.


6200 SOUTH (BIG COTTONWOOD ROAD)

Network Designations:
    Minor Arterial


                                                                                                            27
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                        City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         Local Bike Corridor
         Regional Transportation Bike Corridor
         Regional Recreation Bike Corridor
         Community Pedestrian Priority Corridor

Target right‐of‐way:
     80 feet

Objectives:
    Encourage bike/pedestrian connection to the Holladay Crossroads area, a future mixed‐use
        node that will provide housing, education, commerce and employment opportunities.
    6200 South is important to all types of cyclists and should be designed to accommodate local
        riders of all abilities, regional commuters, and regional recreational riders.
    De‐emphasize transit on this corridor.
    Create an ample, safe, and consistent pedestrian environment.
    Design a public realm streetscape (trees, landscaping, lighting, street furniture) that emphasizes
        existing “countryside” character but provides consistent frame for street and supports the
        overall transportation network goals.
    Become more urban when entering mixed‐use area at Highland/6200 S.
    Consider potential to expand right‐of‐way to accommodate different modes.
    Part of the overall recreation corridor providing direct access to Knudsen Park.




                                                                                                          28
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                        City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



          Map 3.1: Vehicle Network/Roadway Classification Map




                                                                                                          29
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



TRANSIT NETWORK

The General Plan Transit Network is shown on Map 3.2. The planned transit network includes
established UTA routes, some routes planned to be cut, routes the City would like to see added, key
transit hubs, (those locations where at least three modes of transportation and an associated parking lot
are available to citizens), and the priority high‐capacity bus rapid transit (BRT) routes.

Direct and convenient access to the wider region is crucial for the users of Holladay’s Transit Network
due to the changing nature of certain mixed use districts within the city, at its edge in Millcreek and
Cottonwood Heights in particular, and to key employment sheds. With the future of gasoline‐powered
vehicles in flux, the development of additional transit options is critical to the future success of the City’s
residents, employees and visitors, especially canyons and mountain visitors.

Therefore, any future development of the City’s Transit Network should be based on the following goals;

     1. Focus and concentrate transit service in areas where Holladay residents, employees and visitors
        will ride it and where it provides essential connections to housing, education, employment,
        recreation and commerce.
     2. Work with UTA to ensure more direct transit access to key regional destinations/employment
        centers for Holladay residents and to ensure direct access for employees and visitors to key
        destinations in Holladay.
     3. Advocate for Holladay’s preferred future high‐capacity transit line on Highland Drive.
     4. Establish a reasonably direct, high frequency bus route running along 2300 East from Holladay
        to the University of Utah.
     5. Encourage Holladay Residents to use mass transit.

Some suggested implementation measures are:

     1. Consider the adoption of an ordinance that requires developers of new commercial, office,
        mixed‐use, and large residential projects to address mass transit and other multi‐modal services
        in their design of parking facilities, street, and pedestrian accesses. Such measures could
        include parking requirement reductions in lieu of programs that provide bus passes for
        employees.

     2. Continue to reconfigure streets and vehicular access, including parking, within activity centers to
        support walking, bicycling and transit.

     3. Work with UTA for the creation of a future north‐south BRT line along Highland Drive, on
        Wasatch Boulevard and a future associated east‐west connection.


     4. Work with UTA on the study of possible extension of light rail service on Highland Drive from the
        north

     5. Support the installation of transit hubs at those future locations shown on the Transit Network
        map found in this chapter.




                                                                                                              30
Chapter 3‐Transportation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 3.2 Transit Network




                                                                     31
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



BICYCLE NETWORK

The bicycle network consists of existing bicycle corridors and their associated facilities, bicycle
corridors/facilities planned for construction, and a series of proposed bicycle/pedestrian trails, including
an extension of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail.

The primary goal of this element of the Transportation Network is to develop Holladay’s Bicycle Network
with the understanding that it serves different types of riders, those who are casual, recreational users
and those who are commuters. Holladay’s Bicycle Network is part of the overall regional system of
bicycle routes that ensure a wider ridership than just Holladay’s citizens.

The overall goals for this part of the City's transportation network are to:
    1. Maintain and improve existing bicycle facilities and
    2. Continue to look for opportunities to expand and improve the entire bikeway network.

Map 3.3 shows the General Plan Bicycle Network, including additional infrastructure such as bike hubs.

Bicycle corridor classifications vary in terms of scale of trip and the types of riders to which a corridor or
facility is oriented:
      Regional Recreation Bike Corridors: Key routes used by recreational cyclists at a regional level.
          These routes must acknowledge high weekend peaks of use and consider providing amenities to
          recreational cyclists, such as in bike hubs, locations where amenities for bikeway uses such as
          secure parking and drinking facilities are provided.
      Regional Transportation Bike Corridors: Key routes in and out of Holladay connecting regional
          employment, educational, and entertainment destinations. These routes must emphasize
          mobility in and out of Holladay.
      Local Bike Corridors: Connects centers, schools, parks and other local destinations. These
          facilities should be safe and comfortable for the broadest range of users.

These corridor types may be developed as:
    Class I ‐ A non‐motorized facility, paved or unpaved, physically separated from motorized
       vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier.
    Class II ‐ A portion of a roadway that is designated by striping, signing, and pavement markings
       for the preferential or exclusive use of bicyclists.
    Class III ‐ A segment of road designated by the jurisdiction having authority, with appropriate
       directional and informational markers, but without striping, signing, and pavement markings for
       the preferential or exclusive use of bicyclists.

EXISTING BIKE FACILITIES

The City is actively engaged in bicycle route and lane development with funding from Salt Lake County
and Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP). The funding has
provided numerous improvements to the existing bicycle network within the City and connections to
adjacent cities and the County. Existing bike facilities as of January of 2016 are listed below in Table 3.4.




                                                                                                              32
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                              City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



TABLE 3.4: EXISTING BIKE FACILITIES
 Existing Bike Routes Class II                    Length
 Holladay Boulevard/2300 E (HV)                      0.5
 Wasatch Boulevard                                    3
 Total Bike Routes                                   3.5


 Existing Bike Routes Class III                       Length
 Cottonwood Lane/Walker Lane to HD                              1.4
 Fardown/2300 E/6200 S (HD to HB)                               1.5
 3900 South ‐ Highland to Wasatch                               2.6
 2700 East (3900 S to Wander to Holladay Blvd.)                 2.6
 2000 East/Holladay Blvd                                        1.4
 Lincoln Lane (2000 E to 2700 E)                                0.8
 Murray‐Holladay Rd (2300 E to Apple Blossom)                   0.4
 Wasatch Boulevard/Millrock Dr. to Knudsen Park                 2.6
 Holladay Boulevard                                             2.4
 2300 East                                                      1.2
 Total Bike Routes                                             16.8



PROPOSED BIKE FACILITIES

There are nearly 17 miles of proposed bike routes which include the upgrading of some bikeways from
Class III facilities to Class II facilities. These improvements will greatly improve bicycle circulation in the
City. Because the City of Holladay is primarily built‐out, incorporating bicycle facilities into existing
roadways is the best option for future bicycle facility improvements. In 2019 the City joined with four
other cities, Millcreek, Midvale, Cottonwood Heights and Murray, to study expansion of alternative
transportation (AT) options for the “mid‐valley”. As of October 2019, a consultant has been selected
and an overall plan is expected to complete by mid‐2021. This effort will eventually result in greater
connectivity between this cluster of jurisdictions and to a greater valley‐wide network of AT facilities.

Bicycle Hubs, those facilities that provide needed amenities to bikeway users including, bike parking
and/or storage, route information, and other amenities such as bathrooms, food and drink are
recommended at the following locations:
     Olympus High School
     2300 E at City Hall
     Knudsen Park
     Creekside Park
     Olympus Hills Park
     Wasatch Boulevard at the Mt. Olympus Trailhead

Implementation Measures

As previously stated, the overall goals for this part of the City's transportation network are to maintain
and improve existing bicycle facilities and to continue to look for opportunities to expand and improve
the entire bikeway network.


                                                                                                                33
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




This General Plan suggests the following implementation measures:

    1.    Continue to work with adjacent municipalities and Salt Lake County (UCATS) to connect to other
          jurisdictions’ bike networks.

    2.    Continue to pursue bike/pedestrian infrastructure funding through UTA, WFRC, and Salt Lake
          County, State of Utah, and other funds.

    3.    Make bikeway crossings of major streets safe, comfortable, and convenient.

    4.    Continue to develop bike hubs.

    5.    Install bike parking facilities on all City owned property wherever appropriate.

    6.    Encourage merchants to install bike parking facilities wherever the site accommodates this
          amenity.

    7.    Work with merchants and local chamber of commerce on awareness and attractiveness of
          inviting cyclists.

    8.    Investigate a possible link under I‐215 to Wasatch Boulevard and the Bonneville Shoreline Trail
          and the Mt. Olympus Trailhead.

    9.    Upgrade bike facility classifications when and where possible.

    10. Encourage education for bicyclists and motorists as to appropriate shared use of roadways.




                                                                                                              34
Chapter 3‐Transportation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 3.3: Bicycle Network




                                                                     35
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



PEDESTRIAN NETWORK

The existing and planned pedestrian network, or pedestrian corridors, consists of sidewalks, streets, and
pedestrian crossings as well as proposed trails on canals. Holladay has several concentrations of
pedestrian destinations, with the pedestrian corridors that connect them to the wider pedestrian
network. The General Plan Pedestrian Network is shown on the Map 3.4.

The primary goal of the City’s Pedestrian Network is to improve walkability and connectivity among
neighborhoods, schools, parks, places of worship, commercial centers, places of employment,
commerce, education, recreation, housing and other locally‐oriented destinations and ensure the safety
and comfort of pedestrians throughout Holladay, especially along school routes and the city's busiest
streets.

Another important consideration for the continued safety of Holladay's pedestrians is the development
of a citywide policy regarding the installation of new sidewalks. Historically, sidewalks have been
installed in a piecemeal fashion relying on new development to install these improvements. Any City
sidewalk policy should be based on:
     Mandatory installation of sidewalks to protect public safety, (a) along all safe walking routes to
         the City's elementary schools and (b) along busy streets;
     Required installation of sidewalks as in‐fill where sidewalks are present but incomplete, and;
     A determination of those specific neighborhoods where sidewalks are not present and are not
         wanted or needed by the property owners.

A further important goal of the City’s Pedestrian Network is to support the development of walkable
centers in important locations throughout the City. This goal requires the development of pedestrian
connections within and outside of those designated activity centers.
Holladay’s Pedestrian Network is based on three types of Pedestrian Priority Corridors, which include:

         Community Pedestrian Corridors: These corridors are key routes important on a
          community‐wide basis because they serve regional or Citywide destinations; serve as the only
          pedestrian connection linking neighborhoods and districts; or serve as regionally or Citywide
          significant recreational walking routes. These should have a pedestrian design that:
          o Creates a consistent, safe, and comfortable pedestrian experience;
          o Accommodates moderate to large volumes of pedestrians;
          o Ensures highly visible and convenient crossings, especially of larger streets;
          o Contains pedestrian infrastructure and amenities such as pedestrian‐scale lighting, street
              furniture, and public art;
          o Integrates with the design of City‐wide destinations; integrates key views; celebrates the
              character of Holladay; orients pedestrians to citywide destinations by wayfinding signage
              and other design aspects.

         Neighborhood Pedestrian Corridors: These corridors are key routes important on a
          neighborhood basis because they connect a neighborhood to a Community Pedestrian Corridor;
          or connect residents to neighborhood destinations such as schools, churches, or parks. These
          should have a pedestrian design that:
          o Creates a consistent, safe, and comfortable pedestrian experience, and
          o Ensures highly visible and convenient crossings, especially of larger streets.


                                                                                                            36
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




         Other Pedestrian Priority streets. The following should also prioritize pedestrians in the
          context of the street types of which they are a part:
          o Streets within Pedestrian Centers;
          o Streets within a half‐mile walk of education, employment, commerce, housing and
             recreation pedestrian centers;
          o Streets designated as Safe Routes to School.

The City hopes to develop certain walkable trails that are not co‐located on City Streets. Table 3.6
shows the existing and proposed pedestrian trails.

Table 3.6 Pedestrian Trails
 Existing Trails                     Length
 Heugh's Canyon/BST                    0.25
 Total Trails                          0.25

 Proposed Trails*                    Length
 Holladay/Wasatch Blvd. Connector       0.5
 East Jordan Canal                      1.3
 Jordan and Salt Lake Canal             2.7
 Total Proposed Trails                  4.5
*No trail along the Upper Canal

IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES
In order to reach all of the identified Pedestrian Network goals, this General Plan suggests the following
implementation measures:
    1. Conduct a study to determine a City‐wide policy for the location of sidewalk installations, safe
        crossing features and other pedestrian treatments.

     2. Require new development or redevelopment to implement street design for those identified
        pedestrian corridors.

     3. Maintain optimal walkway conditions for walking, wheelchairs, and strollers.

     4. Review and upgrade where necessary the City’s policy on the installation of sidewalks by private
        development.

     5. Create pedestrian connections through the neighborhoods to larger pedestrian corridors
        wherever possible.

     6. Improve safety, walkability and connectivity along Murray‐Holladay Road between Highland
        Drive and Holladay Village (the "Holladay Half‐mile").

     7. Improve connectivity to the Holladay Village, Holladay Hills redevelopment site, Holladay
        Crossroads and other commercial development to the adjacent neighborhoods.



                                                                                                            37
Chapter 3‐Transportation                                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



     8. Support and promote development of the proposed canal trails as a vital piece of the City’s
        pedestrian and recreational infrastructure. A canal trail feasibility study is currently (2019)
        underway and is expected to be complete and ready for public input and review in 2020.

     9. Prioritize reconfiguration of Highland‐Van Winkle‐6200 South street network for vehicles,
        transit, bicycles and pedestrians as determined by a small area master plan.

     10. Regularly review and maintain all current bike route and pedestrian route signage and upgrade
         whenever necessary.

     11. Develop strategies for canal trail access points such as safe street crossings and pedestrian route
         signage.




Map 3.4: Pedestrian Network

                                                                                                             38
Chapter 3‐Transportation   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                     39
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                        City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 4: ECONOMIC STABILITY AND RESILIENCE

INTRODUCTION
The Economic Development chapter of the Holladay General Plan is intended to provide direction for the
City to maintain sustainable economic growth while preserving its historic character, natural environment,
and suburban developments. A stable and diverse economy supporting high‐quality job growth plays a
significant role in maintaining the vitality and quality of life within a community. A healthy tax base is
essential to providing schools, parks, infrastructure, public safety, and other public facilities and services.
The current conditions and economic projections are used as the basis for this section.

The overall goals of this element are designed to improve the economic well‐being of residents, the local
economy and the region as a whole. Those goals are as follows:
    1. Maintain and enhance property values throughout the City.
    2. Maximize the development within the existing key commercial districts within the City.
    3. Encourage and promote the redevelopment of the Cottonwood Mall site.
    4. Encourage and promote the development of employment centers at key locations within the City.
    5. Identify and support the establishment of businesses within the retail sectors to recapture lost
       sales.
    6. Encourage and promote a “Shop Holladay Campaign”.
    7. Support efforts to collect sales tax on Internet purchases.
    8. Support and facilitate cultural and arts activities and events in the City thereby creating an arts
       and entertainment district for the City.

CURRENT CONDITIONS

POPULATION GROWTH

The City of Holladay has a relatively small population when compared to surrounding cities. Because of
annexations, Holladay City’s physical area and its population have changed dramatically. However the
overall population growth within the area that is now Holladay City is relatively low, typically less than 1%.
The projected average annual growth rate (AAGR) for Holladay through 2040 is approximately one
percent, as the City is primarily built‐out. Future increases in population will primarily result from
redevelopment of existing properties.

EMPLOYMENT AND WAGES

Holladay has a below average number of jobs per capita compared to most cities in the Salt Lake Valley.
During 2013, Holladay had an average of 8,189 employees based at approximately 1,103 firms citywide.
Comparing the average monthly wage in Holladay of $3,594 to the rest of the County, Holladay based
employee wages fall in the middle, with 53 percent of the surrounding areas having a lower monthly wage
and 43 percent having a higher monthly wage. According to the Governor’s Office of Management and
Budget (GOMB), total employment in Holladay is expected to increase over the next 25 years, reaching
approximately 11,175 in 2040.



                                                                                                             40
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                        City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Industries in Holladay with high numbers of employees include Black Diamond, a manufacturing firm; CHG
Management and other companies located at Millrock, offering professional services; and Granite School
District. Industries in Holladay with the highest percent of firms include Professional and Business Services,
Financial Activities and Trade, and Transportation and Utilities. According to the GOMB, the industries
that will likely have the largest growth include Professional and Business Services and Education and
Health Services, each with approximately 30 additional jobs created per year. These employment
projections are based on the current percent of total employment within Salt Lake County, therefore,
actual growth numbers may change based on development that occurs in Holladay. If development at
Millrock were to continue, Holladay’s percentage of total professional and business employment would
likely increase. Likewise, development at the Cottonwood redevelopment site will likely increase the total
employment in the Leisure and Hospitality industry, which includes retail and food services. Furthermore,
Black Diamond, a manufacturer and retailer of ski and climbing equipment located in Holladay, is
proposing to expand its operations in Holladay, adding approximately 80 jobs.

GENERAL FUND REVENUES

Holladay has the lowest General Fund revenues per capita compared to other neighboring cities. The
City’s highest source of revenue is currently the property taxes and Holladay is unique in that situation
when compared to the other cities in the region. Maintaining and increasing property tax revenues should
be a primary concern for the long‐term economic health of the City. Property tax values are directly
affected by:
     Access to good schools;
     Feeling safe in one’s home and community;
     Having easy regional access, particularly to Downtown and the University; and
     Living in beautiful neighborhoods, with tree lined streets and varied architecture.

Although the list above is not exclusive, these values combine to create a unique sense of place and make
Holladay’s properties some of the most valued properties in the region, thereby continuing to maintain
the high property values and the resultant property tax revenues that the City relies on. Future
development decisions should consider the impacts to all properties in the City and not just those within
the traditionally commercial areas. The additional development within the City’s redevelopment areas
(HV, Cottonwood, Millrock) will help to increase the City’s property tax revenues.

Although the City has a large property tax base, the lack of a robust sales tax base decreases the total
General Fund revenues. While development at the Cottonwood site may play a significant role in
increasing sales tax revenues to the City, the redevelopment of other commercial sites throughout
Holladay, (HV, Holladay Crossroads) will help to increase the City's sales tax revenues. The authorization
to collect sales tax on internet purchases however, is essential to maintain and increase the City's sales tax
revenues.

SALES LEAKAGE AND MARKET SHARE

By evaluating the total purchases made by residents inside and outside the community, a sales tax leakage
analysis can identify economic development opportunities for a community. The percent of purchases
being made within a City’s boundary is the capture rate. The City of Holladay has an overall capture rate
of 37 percent, which represents approximately $212,413,426 in “lost” sales of goods and services
purchased by residents outside of the City. The City has negative sales leakage in the majority of


                                                                                                             41
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                      City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



categories, indicating there may be opportunities in many categories for the City to recapture lost sales.
The development of Cottonwood redevelopment site will capitalize on many of these opportunities and
should improve capture rates significantly as more goods and services are available within City boundaries
for local residents and to attract shoppers from the larger regional area. Leakage is also reflected in the
percent of retail market share. When compared to other communities, Holladay accounts 2.6 percent of
the total market share; however, Holladay’s population consists of 9.2 percent of the comparison
communities—which means, based on its population, the City brings in only about one fourth of the
revenues it should.


ECONOMIC DISTRICTS

Based on current economic conditions, land use, and land availability, there are four notable economic
districts in Holladay, which are shown on Map 4.1. Appropriate development and redevelopment of these
districts will assist the City in becoming more economically sustainable. The four economic districts are:
     Holladay Village (2300 East/ Murray Holladay Road)
     Cottonwood redevelopment area including Creekside Plaza and Holladay Center (two small
         commercial centers located west and north of the intersection of Highland Drive and Murray
         Holladay Road)
     Holladay Crossroads
     Millrock/Old Mill Village/ Canyon Slope Square area (6200 South 3000 East)

Additional but smaller commercial properties that need redevelopment, but whose future redevelopment
plans have yet to be determined include:
     Black Diamond Site (2000 East/ 3900 South)
     2300 East and 3900 South
     Oakmont Plaza (4000 South/2700 East)
     Scattered commercial properties along north Highland Drive (north of Murray Holladay Road)
     4500 South and 2300 East
     4500 South and 2900 East




                                                                                                           42
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




Map 4.1 Economic Districts




                                                                                        43
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Table 4.1 lists each district with the total sales in the district and the percent of all sales in the City for
2013.

TABLE 4.1: ECONOMIC DISTRICTS BY PERCENT OF TOTAL CITY SALES
                                                      % of
                                     Total Sales ‐    Total
 Economic District
                                     CY2013           City
                                                      Sales
 Holladay Crossroads (6200 S)         $25,313,222        13%
 Holladay Village                     $24,072,873        12%
 Cottonwood redevelopment
 area, Creekside Place and the        $44,741,381        24%
 Holladay Center
 Millrock and Canyon Slope
                                      $14,418,246        7%
 Square
 Highland Drive                        $7,713,346        4%
 Black Diamond Site                    $3,952,792        2%
 2300 East 3900 South                  $1,955,941        1%
 Oakmont Plaza/4500s & 2300
                                          $592,054       >1%
 E/4500 S & 2900 E
 Total City Sales                    $195,096,520

Those economic centers in Holladay with a regional pull are the Cottonwood Mall area, the Holladay
Crossroads and the Millrock area. Other commercial areas throughout the City will likely continue as
commercial areas similar to Holladay Village, which generally serves a neighborhood area with a few
restaurants and stores that draw customers from a larger area.


HOLLADAY VILLAGE

In 2013, Holladay Village generated twelve percent of all City sales. Improvement values per acre are
relatvely high, especially in the areas of Holladay Village that have been recently redeveloped. The
remaining properties in the other three sections of the area are long overdue for reviatization and
redevelopment and should be persued with all available resources. Development could also occur along
Murray Holladay Road to tie Holladay Village to the Cottonwood redevelopment site as it is developed.


COTTONWOOD REDEVELOPMENT SITE (INCLUDING CREEKSIDE PLAZA AND HOLLADAY CENTER)

The Cottonwood Mall was a regional commercial center for over 50 years. However, with the
proliferation of other regional commercial centers around the valley, particularly those with direct
freeway access, the need for and market share of the Cottonwood Mall gradually declined. The old mall
was demolished in 2007 but the economic viability of the mall had died long before the building was
razed. Since then, the property owners (General Growth Properties and Howard Hughes Corporation)
have struggled to develop a marketable vision for the future of the property. The sole remaining tenant,
Macy’s, will likely vacate the site in the near future.


                                                                                                                  44
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                         City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




The City of Holladay needs to develop a new, long‐term vision for the future of the Cottonwood Property.
That vision will likely not be a major regional commercial/retail center because of current lack of market
demand. Instead, the site may be better suited for a mixture of uses, including residential, office and
employment center, and some retail. The successful development of a long‐range vision for the site and
redevelopment of the property consistent with that vision is the number one economic priority for the
City of Holladay.

Currently, the districts around the Mall area comprise 24 percent of all Holladay sales. Macy’s is currently
the primary sales generator for the area but as noted above will soon be leaving the site. Other key
businesses in these districts include numerous restaurants, a State Liquor Store, and a movie theater. In
order to strengthen the economic viability of these existing businesses that draw much of their success on
the proximity to the Mall properties, the City should continue to encourage redevelopment and
revitalization and allow intensification of these commercial uses wherever appropriate.


HOLLADAY CROSSROADS

Thirteen percent of all City sales occur within the Holladay Crossroads economic district at Highland and
6200 South. This site has relatively high traffic counts compared to other sites in the City, with 18,130 on
Highland Drive and between 36,820 and 49,815 on Van Winkle. Furthermore, proximity to I‐215 makes
this site a key economic district for the City of Holladay. Many parcels within this district have lower
improvement (underperforming) values. Redevelopment here could include maximizing the commercial
development of the area and encouraging mixed‐use residential/commercial development, including
smaller‐scale office such as insurance agencies, small professional office, etc.

Like the Cottonwood redevelopment site, Holladay Crossroads has the potential of having more of a
regional pull, due to its access to I‐215. The City should make an effort to promote and encourage
additional commercial development in this area.


MILLROCK/CANYON SLOPE SQUARE/OLD MILL VILLAGE

The Millrock /Canyon Slope Square/Old Mill Village area is one of the best locations for Class A office
space in Salt Lake County. With incredible views of the Salt Lake Valley, office units here have some of the
highest rent rates in the County. Complementary businesses are also located in this district, including
several restaurants and two hotels. Retail sales in this district equal 7 percent of all sales in the City. This
area has the highest improvement values per acre in the City. Furthermore, traffic counts near this district
are among the highest in the City, with 11,780 along 6200 South and between 66,375 and 67,725 on I‐215.
As the demand for additional office space in the County grows, the potential for additional office space
here will also grow due to the site’s views and access to I‐215.

IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES

As stated previously, the overall goals of this chapter of the General plan are:
     Maintain and enhance property values throughout the City.


                                                                                                              45
Chapter 4‐Economic Stability and Resilience                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         Maximize the development within the existing key commercial districts within the City.
         Encourage redevelopment of the Cottonwood Mall site.
         Identify and support the establishment of businesses within the retail sectors to recapture lost
          sales.
         Encourage and promote a “Shop Holladay Campaign” to stop/slow sales tax leakage.
         Support efforts to collect sales tax on Internet purchases.
         Support and facilitate cultural and arts activities and events in the City thereby creating an arts
          and entertainment district for the City.

In order to achieve these long‐term goals, the following implementation measures have been identified:
    1. Review the entitlement process and existing zoning ordinances to foster desired economic
        development.

     2. Allow the intensification of uses in the existing economic districts where they will not create
        excessive negative impacts to surrounding residential properties.

     3. Review and strengthen use and architectural standards for existing commercial zones.

     4. Encourage development of a variety of cultural activities and events in the Holladay Village
        district, at City Hall, and on the Village Plaza; thereby creating an arts and entertainment district
        for the City.




                                                                                                                46
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031


CHAPTER 5: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
                                                                                                    *Amended September 2022
                                                                                                       **Revision January 2023
                                                                                                 **Third Revision February 2023

PURPOSE
Moderate‐income housing (MIH) is defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) as “housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross household income
equal or less than 80 percent of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county
in which the City is located.” This study uses Area Median Income (AMI) in Salt Lake County as
determined by HUD and average household size to determine moderate income thresholds for an
average household.

Since 1996, the Utah State Legislature has deemed planning and development of moderate income
housing a statewide concern with the initial adoption of 10‐9‐307 of the Utah Code. This section of the
Utah Code requires municipalities to include a plan for moderate income housing as part of their
General Plan. It outlines the responsibility of a City to facilitate and effectuate a “reasonable
opportunity” for those households with defined moderate incomes to live within the City.

2022 amendments of this chapter address recent State legislative efforts to a municipality’s Moderate‐
Income Housing plan to be enhanced by establishing specific strategies, implementation measures and
annual reporting. Meeting minimum these statutory regulations are required in order to be eligible for
state funds via either the Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) or the Transit Transportation Investment
Fund (TTIF). This chapter provides guidance on establishing measurable goals which may provide
additional housing types and therefore meet state requirements of a Moderate‐Income Housing Plan
benefitting current and future City of Holladay residents.

Specifically, a municipality’s MIH plan must meet a statutory obligation by adopting, or amending
accordingly, the following elements;

  1. Land Use element: consider location(s) of land for varied housing types available for residents of
  various income levels in addition to the other categories of public and private uses of land. addressed in
  this chapter as well as in Chapter 2 of the General Plan – Land Use, Urban Design and Neighborhood
  Preservation in 2020.

  2. Transportation and Traffic Circulation element: “Provide the general location and extent” of active
  transportation facilities in addition to freeways, arterial and collector streets, public transit, and other
  modes of transportation and correlate the plan with population and employment projections, and
  proposed land use elements. addressed in Chapter 3 of the General Plan – Transportation Network

  3. Moderate Income Housing (MIH) element: provide for and effectuate strategies to create
  reasonable opportunities for a variety of inclusionary housing for residents of various income levels.
  This will be addressed in this Chapter of the General Plan ‐‐ Moderate Income Housing.

  4. Identify Strategies: Recommendation to implement and effectuate 3 or more strategies listed in the
  bill’s “menu”. This will be addressed in this Chapter of the General Plan ‐‐ Moderate Income Housing.

  5. Annual Reporting and Review Schedule element: annually review of plan implementation.

Classified as a 3rd Class municipality (population of 30,000 – 65,000) city Holladay is home to a basic
range of household compositions. Holladay completed its initial Moderate‐Income Housing Plan outline
in 2010. The plan was reviewed and updated in 2013, 2016, 2019 and again in 2022 in the effort to serve
all present and future residents and businesses by ensuring Holladay maintains and plans for the

                                                                                                                          47
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                             City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031

creation of an adequate supply of affordable housing within the City.
All data supporting the conclusions of this chapter can be found in the Appendix at the end of this
Chapter.


GOALS, STRATEGIES AND CHALLENGES
The goals of this chapter comply with the directives of most recent state law for the inclusion of new,
and the continued support of, existing housing made available for households at or below 80% AMI.

GOALS
 1. Provide the opportunity for housing adapted to different ages, lifestyles, and incomes;
 2. Accommodate additional new dwellings by focusing on appropriate zoning regulations within
 existing and redeveloping neighborhoods and mixed‐use districts, throughout the City;
 3. Provide a diversity of housing through a range of types and development patterns to expand
 housing products with a focus of supporting moderate‐income housing opportunities for existing and
 future residents.

STRATEGIES
Strategies which support the goals of this chapter are summarized in the following figure. Refer to the
“Moderate Income Implementation Strategies” section for complete guidance.
Figure 5.1




                                                                                                         48
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                                                                     City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



CHALLENGES
Together with a policy of supporting the continued use and maintenance of older, established housing
stock, these strategies plan for additional residential opportunities for the wide range of Holladay’s
citizens. However, even with significant additional density allowances in select parts of Holladay, it may
not automatically translate to affordability for those of more modest financial means as intended by
recent legislation. The following are identified as current challenges in providing more affordable
housing:

             Disconnected or isolated parcels and scarcity of developable land
             Direct resident opposition to increases to dwelling density and location of new dwellings
             Lack of zoning options/tools
             Holladay’s elevated land values and exclusivity.
             Holladay’s unique median age and household income demographic
             Sensitive lands development, i.e. floodplains and fault lines, designed to limit housing placement

CURRENT POPULATION See Chart 5.2
             Demographic data from the most recent U.S. Census or American Community Survey
              supplemented with any jurisdictional annual surveys
             Chart of how the population has changed over the past five to ten years
             Number of households within targeted income groups (< 80% AMI, < 50% AMI, and < 30% AMI)

CURRENT HOUSING AVAILABILITY AND MODERATE‐INCOME HOUSING NEED
The City’s most recent report to the State in 2019 estimated that between 18‐28 percent of all dwellings
in Holladay are moderately priced (80%) of AMI. For the targeted very‐low, and low‐income households,
however, there are few of these units available that are affordable to households below 50 percent of
AMI. (Approximately $41,000 or less)

In order to determine the availability of moderate‐income housing, or the opportunity for low‐ to
moderate income households to live in the City, this section defines “moderate income” for the targeted
income groups as moderate income at 50‐80 percent, low income at 30‐50 percent, and very low income
at 0‐30 percent of the AMI in Salt Lake County. (Not Holladay). The FY 2019 HUD AMI1 is $82,700. Given
this AMI, the targeted income group cut‐offs, with moderate income home price ranges for sale and
rental product within Holladay are shown in the following two tables. 1

TABLE 5.3 HOLLADAY HOUSING COSTS PAID FAMILY INCOME LEVELS




1
 The HUD AMI figure is released annually. It is based on a median family income and used as a standard figure across all HUD programs. Although it is a family income, it is the standard figure
used by HUD and other housing programs, as well as affordability studies and consolidated plans, even when compared against households. This is to maintain comparability across programs
and studies. source: U.S. Census Bureau; 2013‐2017 American Community Survey 5‐year Estimates



                                                                                                                                                                                            49
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




According to the table immediately above 41.2% of residents in occupied rental dwellings are paying
more than 30% of gross income for rent. This is considered to be “burdened” or at the threshold for
housing affordability by H.U.D.

See Chart 5.4: HOLLADAY HOUSING STOCK
     Total number of housing units
     Breakdown of housing units by:
            o Occupancy (renter‐occupied or owner‐occupied)
            o Size (number of bedrooms)
            o ADUs (number of internal and detached units) o Quality (“new,” “dilapidated,” etc.)
     Affordability of existing housing stock for targeted income group – as per Utah Affordable
       Housing Database, managed by the Utah Department of Housing and community Development.


RELATED HOUSING DATA
         It is estimated that the 3:1 ratio of new single‐family detached (SFD) dwellings to duplex/multi‐
          family housing will decrease in the coming years as the availability of single‐family homes
          declines due to the amount of available land and costs of SFD development becomes
          increasingly expensive.
         According to reporting supplied by the Wasatch Front Regional Multiple Listing Service the
          median sales price of a single family home in Holladay’s three zip codes for 2022 is $687,500
          with an average sales price of $707,010. A 29.5% increase over 2018.
         This dramatic cost increase in the last few years inhibits the ability of many individuals and
          families to rent or purchase an affordable single‐family dwelling.
         Added to this challenge is important information provided by the State of Utah Workforce
          Services 2018 Affordable Housing Report that outlines other various issues related to supply and
          availability.

FORECAST OF MODERATE‐INCOME HOUSEHOLDS AND HOUSING NEED

5‐YEAR AND 10‐YEAR POPULATION PROJECTIONS
Holladay is the smallest municipality in both area and population in Salt Lake County. The population is
projected to increase from 31,413 in 2015 to 35,883 by 2040, based on projections from the Governor’s
Office of Management and Budget. This projected increase of about 12% over the next 20 years is
attributed to increase in new housing made available at the Royal Holladay Hills development (aka,
Cottonwood Mall) and the in‐migration of younger families into established neighborhoods.

Low, medium, and high population projections for the next five and ten years
See Table 5.5: POPULATION FORECAST

Estimate of percentage of the population that will fall within targeted income levels and special needs
groups over the next five and ten years
Table 5.6 AFFORDABLE NEED FORECAST

5‐YEAR AND 10‐YEAR MODERATE INCOME HOUSING NEED
Based on current averages for household size, a significant number of new dwellings will be needed to
accommodate this growth. At the present time, city staff has doubts that more than four thousand new
residents will be added by that time, although it is not impossible.


                                                                                                            50
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



However, due to the fact that Holladay has little or no available land, except at the old Cottonwood Mall
site now known as Royal Holladay Hills redevelopment site, in which to construct new dwellings,
accommodating new future populations will have to be done by other more creative means including
infill development, mixed use, allowing for more vertical development in the community, and accessory
dwelling units (ADU’s)


MODERATE INCOME HOUSING IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES

As previously noted, this General Plan proposes to accommodate a wide range of housing options,
including moderately priced dwellings. The following statutorily required strategies are noted and the
implementation measures identified are intended to set a course of achievable, measurable actions to
provide medium and long‐range guidance which reflect market and socio‐demographic conditions.

STRATEGIES & IMPLEMENTATION ACTION PLANS

STRATEGY

       “amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
       development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as residential
       development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;”
       §10‐9a‐403(2)(b)(iii)(H)”

       ACTION: The Community and Economic Development Department will complete a study period
       proposing a reduction to multi‐family and related residential parking requirements with
       alternative off‐street parking options by December 31st 2022.

STRATEGY

        “reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;” §10‐9a‐
        403(2)(b)(iii)(L)”

        ACTION: In conjunction with City administration and leadership, effective upon adoption by City
        Council of this 2022 MIH amendment, Park Impact Fees may be considered to be waived for
        proposed for new MIH housing units

        ACTION: The Community and Economic Development Department in coordination with city
        administration will complete an impact study By December 31st 2023, to revise the current fee
        analysis with intent to reduce current Impact Fees as they relate to MIH housing in general.




                                                                                                             51
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



STRATEGY

       “zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or
       mixed‐use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment
       centers;” §10‐9a‐403(2)(b)(iii)(F)”

       ACTION: The Community and Economic Development Department will collaborate with city
       leadership and local stakeholders to study and review potential housing related amendments to
       the Office Research and Development (ORD) zone by December 31st 2022 to facilitate new
       moderate housing types in this major employment center.

       ACTION: The Community and Economic Development Department will collaborate with city
       leadership to adopt new mixed‐use zone designation for the Holladay Crossroads Small Area
       Master Plan (HCR‐SAMP) by December 31st 2022, as a transit oriented, mixed use zone available
       for multi‐family residential development.

       ACTION: The Community and Economic Development Department will collaborate with city
       leadership to study and review potential housing related amendments to the C‐1 and C‐2
       commercial zones by December 31st 2023 to recommend facilitating additional housing types in
       these mixed‐use zones.

STRATEGY

       “create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling
       units in residential zones;” §10‐9a‐403(2)(b)(iii)(E)”

       ACTION: By December 31st 2024, the Community and Economic Development Department will
       complete a study period reviewing current regulations facilitating the construction of additional
       ADUs. Specifically:
              Conduct public engagement study to determine hinderances to remodeling existing
              homes and amend ordinances accordingly.
              Implement procedures encouraging ADU occupancy of approved “mother‐in‐law”
              apartment situations, established via “Second Kitchen Affidavit” policy, in order to identify
              legal remodels with secondary kitchenettes, etc.




                                                                                                            52
Chapter 5‐ Moderate Income Housing                                  City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



STRATEGY

             “demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community
             reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
             agency to create or subsidize moderate income housing;” §10‐9a‐403(2)(b)(iii)(P)”

             ACTION: The City of Holladay currently has housing funds generated by RDA projects with
             approximately a million dollars or more that is earmarked for affordable housing. More than
             100 MIH units are currently on track to be established new by 2028

             ACTION: In conjunction with city leadership the Community and Economic Development
             Department will conduct a process and policy establishment study by December 31st 2024,
             designed to require new higher density developments to have a minimum percentage of the
             dwellings to be set aside for lower income households through the possibility of density
             bonuses and/or other tools.


STRATEGY

             “apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to
             promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs
             offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that
             applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce
             Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
             association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter
             13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
             authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies
             for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income
             housing;” §10‐9a‐403(2)(b)(iii)(O)

             ACTION: Beginning June 2022 and Bi‐yearly thereafter, a meeting shall be convened between
             The City’s redevelopment agency and RDA partners with the intent to seek out and apply for
             Salt Lake County incentive programs or partnership with other entities which apply for
             incentive programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation, the Department of Workforce
             Services, or by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement.




                                                                                                              53
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 6: PARKS, RECREATION, TRAILS, AND OPEN
           SPACE
INTRODUCTION

This chapter of the General Plan replaces the existing Parks, Open Space and Trails Master Plan adopted
by the City in 2004. Based on that previous analysis, Holladay’s residents appear to have access to
sufficient recreational opportunities provided with city‐owned parks, county‐owned parks, and school
fields. Additional opportunities are also provided with nearby access to the Wasatch Mountains and
Canyons, golf courses, and other private facilities. The current focus on trails and bicycle facilities also
provides additional recreational opportunities for City residents. With little available land left for
development, the future of additional recreational opportunities likely lies in the canal and stream
corridors that can be developed as off‐street trails, and the numerous roadways that are available for
bicycle routes and lanes.

In the future, opportunities for acquiring public lands are unlikely; however, with the development of
the Cottonwood property, there is the potential for trail improvements along the creek corridor, as well
as small spaces that can be accessible to the general public. Wherever and whenever opportunities
arise for new public parks, and trail and bicycle facilities, they should be pursued. Additionally,
consideration for rights of way for local and regional trails and walkways should be required of all new
development proposals.

The overall goals of this chapter are intended to encourage the City's decision‐makers to:
    1. Direct future decisions in ways to ensure the continued access to and maintenance of the area’s
       existing parks and open spaces,
    2. Maintain an active partnership with Salt Lake County in the future plans for those regional parks
       in, and adjacent to, the City,
    3. Maintain an active partnership with Granite School District to ensure the ability for continued
       public use of school properties, and;
    4. Continue to look for opportunities to expand the City’s parks, trails, and open space areas.

PARKS
As previously stated, the City of Holladay is predominantly built‐out with little available land for park
development and few City‐owned public parks, but its residents have access to numerous county
facilities and nearby public land with limitless recreational opportunities. It is therefore, very important
to take these characteristics into consideration in park planning and to develop realistic guidelines for
park development that are achievable for the unique characteristics of Holladay.

The following table is a snapshot of the City’s parks, and the plan’s recommendations for future actions.




                                                                                                             54
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                                   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



TABLE 6.1: INVENTORY AND PLAN RECOMMENDATIONS

                                              Plan Recommendations
Mini Parks:                                   Mini Parks are the smallest unit in the park system (.5‐1.5 acres). Opportunities for the
Butternut, Stratton, and Olympus              development of Mini Parks are limited because of their small service area and high
Pines Parks function in this category.        maintenance costs. In some instances Mini Parks may be the only option for the provision of
                                              new recreational opportunities.

                                              This plan does not recommend the development of new mini parks at this time.
Linear Parks:                                 Linear Parks may range in size and use from a simple sidewalk to a wide natural stream
Primarily trail corridors; a section of       corridor with picnicking, resting areas, even play structures or ball courts. The space needed
the Bonneville Shoreline Trail is being       and costs vary dramatically depending on each site, length and intended users.
developed through Holladay.
                                              This plan recommends pursuing opportunities to increase connectivity and the development
                                              of trails along canals, roadways, and through natural drainages. Particularly, studying the
                                              feasibility of a canal trail along the Salt Lake City Canal from 6200 South to Murray Holladay
                                              Road via Walker Lane. A trail along the Upper canal is not recommended.
Community Parks:                              Community parks are the core unit of a balanced park system (4‐10 acres). Typically, they
City Hall Park and Knudsen Park               include a range of amenities; such as open play fields, ball courts, playground equipment,
function in this category.                    and picnic areas with associated parking. Theses parks serve a wide variety of users.
                                              Wherever possible, community parks should be connected to each other by a trail system.

                                              Due to the lack of available land for purchase and the high cost of land in the City, the
                                              development of any new neighborhood parks cannot feasibly be implemented. However,
                                              the continued development of the two existing neighborhood parks is a primary goal of this
                                              plan.
Regional Parks:                               Regional parks are usually comprised of everything in a Community park plus larger
Creekside Park and Olympus Hills Park         specialized amenities that occur occasionally in the park system, like the Frisbee Golf course
function in this category.                    at Creekside Park. These parks generally have a one‐mile service area but some amenities
                                              may draw from a regional area.

                                              These types of parks are typically County operated facilities. This plan recommends
                                              continued cooperation with the County in planning future changes to these parks.
Special Use Areas:                            The three general categories of Special Use Areas are; (1) Historical, cultural, social facilities;
City Hall Commons and Holladay                (2) Recreational sites; and (3) Outdoor recreational facilities.
Village Plaza function in this category.
                                               This Plan recommends continued vigilance in locating and developing special areas within
                                              the City, particularly those with historic, cultural and social importance to serve as gathering
                                              places and venues for festivals and events.
Schools and Non‐City Recreation               These types of facilities are only accessible to the general public on a limited or “fees paid”
Facilities                                    basis.
Olympus High, and Olympus Junior
High are examples of a “school” type          This plan acknowledges that these facilities are used by residents and serve an important
of facility. Millcreek Golf Course is an      role. Cooperation between the City and the school district is encouraged to facilitate the
example of a “fees‐paid” recreation”          use of fields for organized recreational sports and other community activities.
facility.
Public Open Space:                            This category typically includes areas that are undeveloped public lands that are protected
Heughs Canyon area is the only city‐          from future development by natural or applied restrictions.
owned parcel of true open space.
                                              This plan recommends preservation of open spaces that are visible and valued, which
                                              provide access to public lands, and to acquire open space along creek corridors.




                                                                                                                                       55
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031


Private Open Space:                           Wooded areas, riparian corridors and other undeveloped private areas throughout the City
                                              function in this category.

                                              This plan recommends protection of the large lot areas throughout the City that give
                                              Holladay a unique character not found in any other part of the Valley. Tree canopy, riparian
                                              habitats and private recreation opportunities are critical to the welfare of the entire city.

Trails:                                       This plan supports the continued installation and maintenance of bike and pedestrian trails
For a detailed list of bike ad trail          connecting parks, schools and other destinations, collaboration with neighboring
facilities see Chapter 3.                     communities to extend canal trails, and maintaining access to public lands.




EXISTING CITY‐OWNED PUBLIC PARKS, COUNTY PARKS, AND SCHOOL FIELDS

The City of Holladay park system currently includes two Community Parks and four Mini Parks for a total
of 15.7 acres. Additionally, City of Holladay residents have ready access to several regional parks and
recreation facilities, including Big Cottonwood East Park, Olympus Hills Park, and Creekside Park, owned
and managed by Salt Lake County. Old Mill Park, a County‐owned Community Park in nearby
Cottonwood Heights, is also readily accessible to Holladay residents. Table 6.2 identifies these park
types, their size, ownership, the jurisdiction in which they are located, and amenities offered in each
park. Combined, City of Holladay residents have access to over 223 acres of publicly owned recreational
land, owned by various governmental entities, including almost 60 acres of school fields and facilities.
These available facilities are illustrated on Map 6.1.




                                                                                                                                 56
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                                                                                                                                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



TABLE 6.2: EXISTING CITY‐OWNED AND COUNTY‐OWNED PARKS, & SCHOOL FIELDS




                                                    Ownership

                                                                     Location
 Existing Parks Serving Holladay




                                         Acres
            Residents                                                                                                                                                                                               Amenities




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Exercise Course/Walking Paths
                                                                                                                                                  Volleyball Courts
                                                                                                            Soccer/Lacrosse
                                                                                                                              Softball/Baseball




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Multi-Use Court
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Horseshoe Pits
                                                                                                                                                                                      Play Structures


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Picnic Shelters
                                                                                                                                                                      Tennis Courts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Picnic Tables
                                                                                            Little League




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Picnic Grills
                                                                                Restrooms




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pavilions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Benches




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (miles)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Other
 City-Owned Mini Parks
                                                   Holladay/UDOT

                                                                   Holladay


 Stratton                             0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                   Holladay

                                                                   Holladay




 Olympus Pines                        0.3                                                                                                                                                                                             X                               X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Public
                                                   Holladay

                                                                   Holladay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gathering
 Holladay Village Plaza               0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    space/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     plaza

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      City
                                                   Holladay

                                                                   Holladay




 Butternut                            0.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X                                                                            monument,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    bus stop

 Total                                1.8
 City-Owned Community Parks

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Heritage
                                                   Holladay

                                                                   Holladay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   gardens,
 City Hall                            5.6                                       1           2               2                 2                                                       2                             3                 6               3                         1                1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   bandstand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and stage
                                                   Holladay

                                                                   Holladay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Be
 Knudsen                              8.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Determined

 Total                               13.9
 Salt Lake County-Owned Regional Parks
                                                 Salt Lake

                                                 Salt Lake
                                                   Co.




 Big Cottonwood East                   89                                                                                                                                                               1                                             4                                                            0.8
                                                   Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Natural
                                                 Salt Lake


                                                                   Holladay




 Olympus Hills                       31.6                                       1           2                                                                                         8                 2           1                                 8                         13                                 2.33                             area with
                                                   Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    trails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18 hole
                                                   Salt Lake Co.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    disc golf
                                                                   Holladay




 Creekside                           26.1                                       1                                             1                                       2                                 1           1                                                                                              0.25                             course,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    sledding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hill
 Total                             146.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            57
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                                                               City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                   Ownership


                                                                                   Cottonwood Heights Location
                                                         Acres
 Salt Lake County-Owned Community Parks




                                                                   Salt Lake Co.
 Old Mill                                               9.3




 Total                                                 9.3


 Other Available Recreation Facilities/School Fields
 Olympus High                                            13.8
 Olympus Junior High                                         2.9
 Bonneville Junior High                                  13.4
 Cottonwood Elementary                                       6.2
 Crestview Elementary                                        4.5
 Howard R. Driggs Elementary                                 4.7
 Morningside Elementary                                      4.6
 Oakwood Elementary                                           3
 Spring Lane Elementary                                      6.7
 Total                                                   59.8




                                                                                                                                                           58
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 6.1 Parks, Open Space and Trails




                                                                                               59
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                             City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



CURRENT LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS)

This plan’s recommendations are based in large part using the NRPA guidance (6 ‐ 10 acres per 1,000 in
population) as a desired “Level of Service” for accessing future decisions regarding maintenance and
acquisition of park facilities. Taking into consideration both City‐owned and other facilities including
county parks and recreation facilities and those associated with public schools, the City is within that
standard range at 7.42 acres per each 1,000 in population. This is an important understanding based on
the unique characteristics of Holladay, its mature development pattern, and its potential for future park
development. Table 6.3 illustrates the current LOS for Holladay residents.

TABLE 6.3: LEVEL OF SERVICE ANALYSIS
 Level of Service Analysis
                                                                   Current
                                    2015             Existing    LOS (Acres
                                  Population          Acres       per 1,000
                                                                 Population)
 City‐owned Parks Only                 31,413              7.4         0.24
 All Parks Serving the
 Community (City, County,
 and School Fields)                    31,413             233          7.42



TRAILS AND BIKE FACILITIES

EXISTING TRAILS and BIKE FACILITIES

For a detailed list of bike and trail facilities, see Chapter 3, Transportation Network. As a brief overview,
the City of Holladay currently has one developed off‐street trail in Heughes Canyon, which connects the
City to the Bonneville Shoreline Trail. The City is actively engaged in bicycle route/lane development
with funding from Salt Lake County awarded in 2014 and Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), to revise the main bike routes through the community in
2015. The funding has provided numerous improvements to the existing bicycle network within the City
and connections to adjacent cities and the County.

Long‐range plans also include a feasibility study for the implementation of pedestrian connections along
the Salt Lake City canal system running north from 6200 South to the Cottonwood redevelopment site.
A trail is not recommended along the Upper Canal corridor.


PUBLIC/PRIVATE OPEN SPACE

Holladay has little public undeveloped open space beyond the 15 acres owned by the City in the Heughs
Canyon area. However, much of the perception of open space and the experience of nature in Holladay
is a result of the mature trees and density of vegetation throughout those areas of privately held land in
the larger lot residential neighborhoods, such as in the Cottonwood/Walker Lane area. While this type
of open space is not necessarily accessible to all residents for recreational activities, there are numerous
country lanes with dense tree canopy that are attractive for walking and biking. This privately owned


                                                                                                                         60
Chapter 6‐ Parks Recreation, Trails and Open Space                   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



land, which largely remains in its natural condition, is a large part of what gives Holladay its appeal and
contributes to the semi‐rural atmosphere and the open feel of the community. These areas with their
unique characteristics have been lovingly maintained and protected since the City’s beginnings by
private individuals who value open space, lush vegetation and the wildlife it fosters. Regardless of
whether or not they are owners of one of these lots, Holladay’s residents have expressed
overwhelmingly a desire to preserve these areas. Throughout this plan, the stated goals have
underscored the need to preserve these large lot areas and their associated tree canopy. This plan
recognizes these private open space areas as one of the signature images of the community and is highly
valued by all.


IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES
As stated previously, the overall goals of this chapter of the General Plan are:

    1.      Direct future decisions in ways to ensure the continued access and maintenance of the area’s
           existing parks and open spaces,
    2.     Encourage an active partnership with Salt Lake County in the future plans for those regional
           parks in, and adjacent to, the City,
    3.     Encourage and active partnership with Granite School District to ensure the ability for
           continued public use of school properties, and;
    4.      Continue to look for opportunities to expand the City’s parks, trails, and open space areas.

In order to accomplish these goals suggested implementation measures include:

    1.     Look for opportunities to incorporate public space into new development including plazas, open
           spaces, and trails, bicycle and pedestrian corridors.

    2.     Develop a cooperative agreement with Granite School District and any other local agencies or
           organizations to ensure local residents have the right to reasonably and responsibly utilize
           school play fields and recreational amenities outside of school hours.

    3.     Encourage the creation of community gardens, seasonal markets, and similar uses that support
           healthy lifestyles.

    4.     To improve maintenance and operations in City‐owned parks:
           a. Maintain design standards that reduce maintenance requirements and costs, and assure the
               long‐term usefulness of facilities.
           b. Provide an annual budget allocation for park improvements and upgrades.
           c. Install adequate facilities for residents to “self‐maintain” parks and park facilities, i.e. trash
               receptacles, animal waste containers, hose bibs.
           d. Work with local neighborhoods and interest groups to establish an “Adopt‐A‐Park”
               program.

    5.     In the event of a future closure of any public school the City should exercise its right to
           purchase the school property for public park space.




                                                                                                               61
Chapter 7‐ Public Services and Facilities                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 7: PUBLIC SERVICES and FACILITIES

INTRODUCTION

A range of public and quasi‐public services and facilities are required to keep the City running.
Foremost, are the governmental services provided by the City's elected officials and appointed staff.
Other key services include law enforcement, fire protection and other emergency services as well as the
full range of utilities including water, sewer electricity, gas, and sewer. Other necessary services include
road maintenance/snow removal and garbage disposal. A significant portion of these services is
currently provided by other governmental entities as well as various private service providers.

 The City currently receives the majority of its municipal services through contracts with outside service
providers. As a consequence, City leaders have little, if any, control over the level of service provided or
the cost of that service. The future availability and cost of those services will be dramatically affected by
forces that are outside the City’s control. For that reason, it is essential that the City develop a long
range plan for the continued delivery of municipal services, and that the City adequately prepared for
any anticipated, necessary changes to our current services.

One of the goals of this chapter of the General Plan is to ensure that Holladay's citizens and visitors
continue to have access to all of those basic services in a timely and adequate manner. With the
incorporation of Millcreek City, directly to the north of Holladay, decisions regarding how Holladay
provides for its needs may be dramatically affected by this change in access to valley‐wide services.
Future plans for providing necessary public services will no doubt depend on partnering with this new
city. Because of Holladay's position in the wider community of the Salt Lake Valley, future decision
makers will need to continue to compare and contrast the market forces and be flexible in their thinking
about finding solutions that protect the health, welfare and safety of Holladay citizens, businesses, and
visitors.

The overall goals of this chapter of the General Plan are:

     1.     Ensure the continued access to basic services for citizens, business owners and visitors.
     2.     Develop a long range plan for the delivery of municipal services for the City based upon a
            combination of contracts, partnering, and/or self‐providing services.
     3.     Continue to explore available alternatives for municipal services to provide improved level of
            service and/or reduce costs.
     4.     Ensure the City’s decision‐makers have the ability to evaluate and make changes as necessary
            to any and all methods of those basic service deliveries.

PUBLIC SERVICE PROVIDERS

Although the City of Holladay does not provide any utility services to residents, Holladay City is well
served by public services and facilities and has the systems in place to ensure services are maintained in
the future. Steps should be undertaken to ensure that critical services related to utility and public safety
are maintained in a manner that meets future needs. Map 7.1 shows the location of Holladay's public
service providers. Map 7.2 shows the various culinary and irrigation providers in the City.


                                                                                                              62
Chapter 7‐ Public Services and Facilities                           City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




The following is a brief list of the services available to Holladay citizens and the current provider:
   A. Services provided by the City include;
         1.      Administration and finance
         2.      Planning and Zoning
         3.      Business Licensing
         4.      Code Enforcement
         5.      Park Acquisition and Maintenance
         6.      Emergency Operations
         7.      Municipal Court

     B.     Services provided by other governmental agencies include;
            1.     Law Enforcement‐ UPD of Greater Salt Lake
            2.     Fire Protection‐ UFA
            3.     Culinary and secondary water‐ Salt Lake Public Utilities, Jordan Valley Water
            Conservancy District. (See Map 7.2)
            4.     Sewer‐ Mt. Olympus Improvement District,
            5.     Animal Control‐ Salt Lake County
            6.     Road maintenance‐ Salt Lake County Public Works
            7.     Public education‐ Granite School District
            8.     Library Services‐ Salt Lake County
            9. Social Services‐Salt Lake County
            10.    Parks and Recreation‐Salt Lake County
            11.    Sanitation/Trash Removal/Recycling‐ Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District

     C.     Services provided by private enterprise include;
            1.     Culinary and secondary water‐ Holliday Water Company (See Map 7.2)
            2.     Electricity‐ Rocky Mountain Power
            3.     Gas‐ Questar
            4.     Telecommunications‐ Xfinity, Verizon, Clearwire, Sprint, AT&T
            5.     Private Education‐ Various providers
            6.     Medical Services‐ Various providers


IMPLEMENTATION METHODS

As previously stated, the overall goals of this chapter are:

     1.     Ensure the continued access to basic services for citizens, business owners and visitors.
     2.     Develop a long range plan for the delivery of municipal services for the City based upon a
            combination of contracts, partnering, and/or self‐providing services.
     3.     Continue to explore available alternatives for municipal services to provide improved level of
            service and/or reduced costs.
     4.     Ensure the City’s decision‐makers have the ability to evaluate and make changes as necessary
            to any and all methods of those basic service deliveries.




                                                                                                              63
Chapter 7‐ Public Services and Facilities                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



In order to achieve the stated goals of this section, the following implementation measures are
suggested:

     1.     Identify and monitor the way in which the City provides essential municipal services and from
            whom these services are delivered.

     2.     Explore future partnership opportunities to provide essential services especially with those
            abutting municipalities already sharing service delivery options with the City.

     3.     Develop a plan for the future delivery of essential municipal services and ensure that the City is
            prepared for any changes that may occur in the delivery of those services.




                                                                                                               64
Chapter 7‐ Public Services and Facilities   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



     Map 7.1‐Public Services




                                                                                      65
Chapter 7‐ Public Services and Facilities   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 7.2‐Water Providers




                                                                                      66
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 8 NATURAL RESOURCES, and
          SUSTAINABILITY

INTRODUCTION

Holladay’s unique and distinctive character is prized both by visitors and by its residents. From the early
days of settlement in the mid‐1800’s to today, residents have valued the natural resources found in the
area, which are centered around the foothills of Mount Olympus as well as, Big Cottonwood Creek,
Spring Creek, the Upper Canal, Neff’s Canyon Drainage, the Salt Lake City canals, and other and irrigation
ditches. Together with the beautiful green canopy of mature trees that thrive along their banks, these
natural resources create the sense that this is a "green jewel" to be coveted and protected. The view of
Mount Olympus dominates the skyline and many area residents consider this to be the City's most
important visual resource and a source of community identity.

This chapter of the General Plan addresses the important role that natural resources contribute to the
long term health and resiliency of the City. It concludes with the identification of community issues and
key actions to ensure the City's sustainability as it continues to grow and change over the years.

NATURAL RESOURCES
Holladay has a broad range of natural resources and these resources need careful protections against
future inappropriate development. To guide future decision‐makers the following overall goals of this
chapter are intended to:
    1. Ensure that future growth and redevelopment in the City respects these natural features,
         paying heed to natural processes that can affect the health, safety, and public welfare of
         residents and visitors.
    2. Protect the riparian areas, waterways and habitats that currently give Holladay its unique
         character.
    3. Protect and renew the mature tree canopy, and;
    4. Protect steep hillsides and slopes from development.

The majority of land in the City is relatively flat, although there are numerous sloped areas that make
views of the valley and mountains possible. Soil types vary and high water tables are common. Steep
slopes and the presence of the Wasatch Fault Zone paralleling Highland Drive create development
constraints that must be considered during any site planning process. Map 8.1 shows the City’s
identified Natural Hazards.




                                                                                                          67
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 8.1‐ City of Holladay Natural Hazards/Waterways Map




                                                                                                    68
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Holladay is served by two separate watersheds ‐ the Big Cottonwood Creek/Jordan River Watershed and
the Millcreek/Jordan River Watershed – both of which are managed by multiple agencies and through a
   range of control mechanisms instituted at county, state and federal levels. A network of natural and
       manmade water resources exist within these watersheds. Big Cottonwood Creek, the largest
  watershed, extends diagonally from the southeast to northwest edges of the community, dividing the
 City into two roughly‐equal halves. There are also several major canals in the City, including the Jordan
    and Salt Lake Canal and the Upper Canal, both of which were constructed by Mormon pioneers for
irrigation purposes during the mid‐1800’s. These important waterways which also act as a major part of
             the current storm drain system are shown on the City's Natural Hazards Map, 8.1.

 In addition to conveying and channeling water through the community, these waterways help to
enhance the integrity of the local environment by providing beauty, flood storage, stream bank
stabilization, sediment trapping, pollutant trapping/attenuation, food chain support, fishery and wildlife
habitat, and natural/passive recreation opportunities. The natural beauty of riparian areas also makes
them attractive for development. Unfortunately, such changes often impair the value of the riparian
ecosystem, with flooding being one of the most immediate and direct impacts to nearby residents.

Holladay’s unique environment also provides prime habitat for many native species of birds, fish and
animals. Habitats range from those on the steep foothills to those along the Big Cottonwood Creek
bottoms. Open fields and year‐round stream flow all contribute to varied and abundant wildlife in the
city.

Mature trees and healthy vegetation provide an incredible array of benefits for Holladay. In addition to
providing shade, privacy, habitat and food, trees provide less obvious benefit, such as helping to control
erosion, mitigating noise, enhancing the sense of well‐being, and adding aesthetic value. The forests of
mature trees, which characterize many of the established neighborhoods in Holladay, are important to
the community in general. Frequently mentioned by residents during the planning process, they are
highly valued and in need of preservation and rejuvenation. Map 8.2, illustrates the dramatic change in
old growth tree canopy and its associated riparian areas along Big Cottonwood Creek that has occurred
over the last twenty years. These losses can be attributed to natural attrition as well as, increasing
development within the corridor. The City faces a major challenge balancing public outcry to preserve
trees with the right of property owners/developers to remove trees located on their properties.

Another vital issue regarding trees in Holladay, especially those heavily forested areas in the Historic
Community Core, (south of Murray Holladay Road, and north of 6200 South between Holladay Blvd and
Highland Drive) is the possibility of a major fire. These areas are often characterized by diseased and
weakened trees that have abundant, dead undergrowth. Additionally, much of this residential area is
accessed by narrow private lanes serviced by small, aging waterlines and low water pressure. This
combination of factors may contribute to the danger of significant damage to property and persons if a
major fire event were to occur.




                                                                                                          69
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



Map 8.3‐ Changes in the Mature Tree Canopy




                                                                                             70
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability               City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




SUSTAINABILITY

The idea of what makes a community sustainable has been discussed and explored by many
municipalities in recent years. Sustainable development has been defined by the United Nations’
Brundtland Commission (World Commission on Environment and Development) as, “Development that
meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their
own needs”.

The residents of Holladay have a great appreciation for the natural resources within and adjacent to the
City, as well as its cultural, historical, and human assets. They understand the strong link that exists
between a sustainable community and the daily choices citizens make both at home and in the work
place. Since these important concepts are held by many citizens, the City supports inventive methods for
improving sustainability, resiliency, and a high quality of life within the City government and for the
community at large.

Through building collaborative networks and citizen support of a sustainable approach to future growth
and development, sustainable practices will protect not only the natural world but also the well‐being of
Holladay's current and future citizens.

The overall goal of this section of the General Plan is to foster the creation of a comprehensive approach
for sustainability and to look for and develop opportunities to improve the quality of life for residents,
businesses and their employees and visitors alike.

To achieve these two important goals, specific sustainability goals include the development of future
plans and practices that address:
    1. Water conservation;
    2. Improvement in overall air quality;
    3. Incorporating transportation and parking plans that minimize the use of private vehicles and
        foster the use of alternative transportation options, such as pubic transit or biking for all
        citizens;
    4. Incentivizing the use of renewable energy sources;
    5. Improve the disposal and reuse of green waste; and
    6. Foster food security/urban agriculture.

CURRENT PRACTICES AND POLICIES IN HOLLADAY
 Holladay has inherited a development pattern that was established long ago, when the community was
unincorporated and a truly rural place. Three specific development patterns that contribute to the long
term resiliency and sustainability of the City are:
    1. Development on smaller, private roads. The use of private roads has been a development
practice long established in the City. Continuing this practice allows new development to be implemented
using a minimal amount of paving in residential areas. These roads are designed to provide adequate
public safety access, and provide the community with benefits such as slower traffic and enhanced
overall property values.

    2. Impervious surface reduction measures including storm water detention, building massing and
tree planting. Since 2007, the City has regulated the maximum amount of impervious surfaces allowed


                                                                                                         71
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



on private property through various practices within the land Use and Development Regulations. These
types of measures help replenish the natural aquifer, reduce the amount and resources needed to
process storm water and encourage the replacement of the existing tree canopy.

     3. Water Conservation and drought preparedness awareness. Historic low density development
patterns in Holladay are unique to other areas of the Salt Lake Valley. While large lots may use more
water resources per household, they use far less water per acre than more densely developed areas.
Thus Holladay’s existing large lot areas and low density residential neighborhoods help to conserve the
city's water resources. Also, Holladay City’s leaders support education efforts city wide to ensure all
citizens understand and value this limited resource.

IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES:
As stated previously, the overall goals regarding the preservation of the City’s natural resources are
intended to:
    1. Ensure that future growth and redevelopment in the City respects these natural features,
    paying heed to natural processes that can affect the health, safety, and public welfare of residents
    and visitors.
    2. Protect the riparian areas, waterways and habitats that currently give Holladay its unique
    character.
    3. Sustain and protect the mature tree canopy, and;
    4. Protect the hillside and slopes from undesirable development.

In order to achieve these long‐term goals for Holladay’s natural resources this General Plan supports the
following implementation measures:
     1. Evaluate and update as needed, current regulations and guidelines pertaining to development
     within those areas with specific natural hazards.

     2. Ensure that the existing urban forest is protected and improved as much as possible while
     respecting the rights and needs of private property owners. Continue to encourage the
     preservation of existing trees and planting of new ones.

     3. Develop and adopt a Community Wildfire Prevention Plan (CWPP) as a first step in addressing
     Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) issues that impact those Holladay properties that are highly
     susceptible to catastrophic results from fire.

     4. Adopt as part of the City’s policy, the “Salt Lake County Big Cottonwood Creek Guide where
     applicable.

     5. Avoid the piping of streams and canals. As opportunities permit, explore the possibilities for
     day‐lighting Spring Creek and Neff's Creek.




                                                                                                           72
Chapter 8‐ Natural Resources, and Sustainability                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



As stated previously, specific sustainability goals include the development of future plans and practices
that address:
    1. Water conservation;
    2. Improvement in overall air quality;
    3. Incorporating transportation and parking plans that minimize the use of private vehicles and
        foster the use of alternative transportation options, such as pubic transit or biking for all
        citizens;
    4. Incentivizing the use of renewable energy sources;
    5. Improve the disposal and reuse of green waste; and
    6. Foster food security/urban agriculture.


The following are suggested implementation measures intended to help further those sustainability
goals:

     1. Actively search for new and innovative ways to conserve water in the City's operations and
        develop a strategy to implement these methods.

     2. Preserve those areas of low density, large lot development from development pressure to
        maintain private open space and natural vegetation and to conserve water resources. Look for
        innovative ways to maintain delivery of secondary water to old growth tree areas.

     3. Continue to support the valley‐wide air quality measures such as UCAIR and other emission
        reduction programs. Require citizens to adhere to the no‐idling policy and to actively look for
        ways to reduce unnecessary car trips.

     4. Encourage and educate the community regarding measures to reduce unnecessary car trips and
        to encourage the use of mass transit and other alternative transportation options including
        walking to school and church.

     5. Work with UTA on the adoption of needed bus routes including BRT.

     6. Look for ways to incentivize the use of renewable energy resources such as installation of solar
        systems and the inclusion of Green building practices city‐wide.

     7. Develop and implement an education program for the community to encourage the recycling of
        non‐renewable resources.

     8. Develop a plan to increase recycling of green waste and the use of green waste containers
        within the City.

     9. Develop and implement an education program for the community to encourage urban
        agriculture and family food production.




                                                                                                          73
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                               City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




CHAPTER 9: SMALL AREA MASTER PLANS

ADOPTED PLANS

Since incorporation late in 1999, the City of Holladay has adopted various Small Area Master Plans for
unique areas of the city. These plans were appended to the overall General Plan and referenced as
such. This update of the city's adopted General Plan recognizes that some of those plans have been
completed and others are still needed, as guides to future development in these specific areas of the
City. Also, at the time of this writing, one or more of these adopted small area master plans are being
updated or amended based on changes in the goals and implementation of these plans during the past
few years. It is not the intent of this General Plan iteration to re‐work any of those small area master
plans, but to simply recognize the validity of those master plans as part of the City's overall plan for
future development.

The following "Small Area Master Plans" are herein adopted by reference, as part of the City's overall
General Plan:

         The Holladay Village Master Plan
         Planning For New Development at the Cottonwood redevelopment site
         The Highland Drive Master Plan
         The Knudsen Park and Big Cottonwood Nature Area Master Plan
         The City Hall and Park Master Plan
         Holladay Crossroads




                                                                                                           74
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                           APPENDIX
1. Current Population statistics, charts

2. Current Housing Stock analytics

3. State of Utah Biennial (pre‐SB 34, 2019) and Annual Moderate‐Income Housing Review Reports
        3a – 2017
        3b – 2019
        3c – 2021




                                                                                                      75
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




3a. 2017 State of Utah Biennial Moderate Income Housing Review Report


Prepared by: Paul Allred, Community Development Director; Patricia Hanson, City Planner
Date of Preparation: October 11, 2017

1. Estimate of need for moderate housing in the City of Holladay.

(See attached UAHFT report)

2. Findings of the biennial review of the moderate‐income housing element of the City of Holladay
General Plan.

The City of Holladay adopted a new General Plan on July 14, 2016. A copy of that plan and the
 resolution adopting the plan is attached to this report. The two statements from the City’s Moderate
Income Housing Element of the General Plan that summarize the city's housing environment are:
          1.      “Combining the total number of moderate income single family units and multi‐family
          units indicates a total of 3,292 affordable units in Holladay, or 28 percent of the 11,744 units in
          Holladay. Therefore, there is a reasonable opportunity for those making 80 percent of AMI to
          live in Holladay.”

             2. “ Based on the percent of households in Salt Lake County within specific income ranges, and
             the percentage of rental units in Holladay that are within the moderate income home rental
             ranges for those income ranges, nearly 75 percent of apartments are affordable to households
             at 80 percent of AMI. Therefore, there is a reasonable opportunity for a household in Salt Lake
             County to rent in Holladay.”

3. Describe your city’s efforts “to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate local regulatory barriers to
moderate income housing” during the past two years.

Holladay continues to support efforts to streamline the entitlement process for all housing applications,
in particular with the introduction of an internet‐based administration and tracking program for building
and other associated offsite improvements permits. The city monitors closely all impact fees and other
public safety fees that would increase the cost of building new homes within the city and has not
increased these fees since their adoption in 2005.

4. Describe the actions taken by your city to encourage the preservation of existing moderate income
housing and development of new moderate income housing during the past two years.

Since incorporation, the City has established two RDA’s and one EDA each with its associated set asides
for development of new and existing moderate income housing. As those monies are not yet available in
any significant amounts, no new construction is presently underway. However, part of the approved
entitlements for the Cottonwood Redevelopment area require the funding of 100 new dwelling units
that would be affordable to the targeted households. The City anticipates the commencement of
development at the site within the next year and anticipates construction of these units as part of the
project. Additionally, the City is looking for an opportunity to replace the 18 units of moderate income
housing that were lost during the construction of the new Holladay City Park. It is anticipated that the

                                                                                                             76
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



RDA funds from the Village Project could help with this effort when those funds become available. In the
interim, the City has opted to focus on maintaining the current single family housing as well as the rental
housing within the city. The city discourages "teardowns" of older, affordable housing units by allowing
householders to remodel or add responsible additions to their homes. From 2014 to the end of 2016,
1566 permits for remodels, additions, roofing repairs, solar installations and other upgrades to the
existing housing within the city have been issued by the Community Development Department, many of
which are repairs for housing that could be considered in the targeted category.

The City's Code Enforcement Officer continues to enforce the City's ordinances regarding the
upkeep of all properties in the City. These actions support the continued health and safety of all
neighborhoods and maintain a wider range of housing opportunities for Holladay's citizens.

The newly adopted General Plan encourages the introduction of mixed‐use residential developments in
several underdeveloped areas throughout the City, in particular, the Cottonwood Redevelopment area,
the Holladay Village area, the Holladay Crossroads area and other smaller commercial centers that could
be targeted for redevelopment in the future. These areas can easily accommodate higher residential
densities and are located in those areas with easy access to all modes of transportation to and from local
and regional, shopping and employment centers.

5.Describe the progress made within your city to provide moderate income housing, as measured by
permits issued for new units of moderate income housing.

Since the adoption of the City's Moderate Income Housing Element of the newly adopted General Plan in
2016, there have been no applications for the development of moderate income housing units within the
City's boundary by privately funded developers. Simple economic factors such as higher land values in
Holladay and the lack of vacant developable land contribute to the overall problem. Nevertheless,
available data indicates that nearly one third of the existing dwelling units within the City meet the
"affordable" criteria.

6.Describe the efforts made by Holladay City to coordinate moderate income housing plans and actions
with neighboring local governments.

The City has actively participated in discussions with the Salt Lake County Housing Authority and
is open to any future partnership options with the County and/or the abutting municipality.

Approximate Housing Cost Burden Ratio at HUD’s 80%, 50%, and 30% Income Limits
based on a 4‐person Family Household

Table B25088                         2009 American      2017 American
                                                                                       2024 Projection
Table B19019                         Community Survey   Community Survey
Ratio of median rent in
the municipality to
100% of the median                   13.9%              14.2%                          14.6%
income of a family of 4
in the County
Ratio of median rent in
the municipality to 80%              17.3%              17.8%                          18.3%
of the median income

                                                                                                            77
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



of a family of 4 in the
County
Ratio of median rent in
the municipality to 50%
of the median income       27.7%                       28.5%                      29.3%
of a family of 4 in the
County
Ratio of median rent in
the municipality to 30%
of the median income       46.2%                       47.5%                      48.8%
of a family of 4 in the
County
Ratios greater than 30% indicate that the average 4‐person household in the County would be burdened
by the typical housing costs in the municipality. Ratios greater than 50% indicate that the average 4‐
person household in the County would be severely burdened by the typical housing costs in the
municipality.




                                                                                                        78
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                               City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



UCA 10‐9a‐408(2) (c) (I)
Calculate the municipality’s housing gap for the current biennium by entering the number of moderate‐
income renter households, affordable and available rental units from Table 1 below:


Table 1
2018 Shortage          Renter        Affordable       Available          Affordable              Available Units‐
                       Households    Rental Units     Rental units       Units‐ Renter           Renter
                                                                         Households              Households
≤ 80% HAMFI            1,718         2,665            1,745              950                     30
≤ 50% HAMFI            865           1,205            495                340                     ‐370
≤ 30% HAMFI            400           225              30                 ‐175                    ‐370


Table 2
Calculate the municipality’s housing gap for the previous biennium by entering the number of moderate
2016 Shortage Renter                Affordable        Available        Affordable      Available Units‐
                Households          Rental Units      Rental units     Units‐ Renter   Renter
                                                                       Households      Households
≤ 80% HAMFI     1,675               2,560             1,724            885             49
≤ 50% HAMFI     995                 890               389              ‐105            ‐606
≤ 30% HAMFI     460                 135               4                ‐325            ‐456


Subtract Table 2 from Table 1 to estimate progress in providing moderate‐income housing
PROGRESS          Renter            Affordable        Available       Affordable      Available
                  Households        Rental Units      Rental units    Units‐ Renter   Units‐ Renter
                                                                      Households      Households
≤ 80% HAMFI       40                105               21              65              ‐19
≤ 50% HAMFI       ‐130              315               106             445             236
≤ 30% HAMFI       ‐60               90                26              150             86
UCA 10‐9a‐408(2) (c) (ii)

Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently subsidized by each level of
government below:

         Municipal Government 0          Subsidized by municipal housing programs
         State Government                6       Subsidized by Utah’s OWHLF multi‐family program
Federal Government                       133     Subsidized by the Federal Low‐Income Housing Tax
Credit (LIHTC) program

UCA 10‐9a‐408(2) (c) (iii)

Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently deed‐restricted for
moderate‐income households in the box below:




                                                                                                              79
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                            City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




3b. 2021 State of Utah Biennial Moderate Income Housing Review Report

                                                State of Utah
                                      Department of Workforce Services
                                     Housing & Community Development
                             ANNUAL MODERATE‐INCOME HOUSING REPORTING FORM

Under the Utah Code, Municipal legislative bodies must annually:
 Update 5‐year estimates of moderate‐income housing needs UCA 10‐9a‐408 and 17‐27a‐408.
 Conduct a review of the moderate‐income housing element and its implementation; and
 Report the findings for updated planning to the Housing and Community Development Division
   (HCDD) of the Utah Department of Workforce Services and their Association of Government or
   Metropolitan Planning Organization no later than December 1 of each year.
 Post the report on their municipality’s website.

In accordance with UCA 10‐9a‐401 and 17‐27a‐401 municipalities that must report regularly are:
 Cities of the first, second, third, and fourth class (or have 10,000 or more residents).
 Cities of the fifth class:
o Having an estimated population greater than or equal to 5,000 residents; AND
o That are located in a county with a population greater than or equal to 31,000 residents.
 Metro Townships:
o Having an estimated population greater than or equal to 5,000 residents;
o Having an estimated population less than 5,000 BUT is located in a county with a population greater
    than or equal to 31,000 residents.
 Not a town with fewer than 1,000 residents.
                   To find out if your municipality must report annually, please visit:
                     https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/affordable/moderate/reporting/
                      For additional moderate‐income housing planning resources:
                     https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/affordable/moderate/index.html
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT INFORMATION:
Municipal Government:    City of Holladay
Reporting Date:          December 1, 2021
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT CONTACT INFORMATION:
LaNiece Davenport, ldavenport@cityofholladay.com
Gina Chamness, gchamness@cityofholladay.com
Mayor's First and Last Name: Rob Dahle
Mayor's Email Address:        rdahle@cityofholladay.com
PREPARER CONTACT INFORMATION:
Preparer's First and Last Name: LaNiece Davenport
Preparer's Title:               Community and Economic Development Director
Preparer’s Email Address:       ldavenport@cityofholladay.com
Preparer's Telephone:           801‐527‐2453                      Extension: n/a



                                                                                                        80
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



When did the municipality last adopt moderate‐income housing element of their general plan?
December 2019
Link to moderate‐income housing element on municipality website:
http://cityofholladay.com/file/2021/02/MIH‐PLan‐Dec‐2020.pdf

UCA 10‐9a‐403 (2)(b)(iii) and 17‐27a‐403 (2)(b)(ii) requires municipalities to include three or more
strategies in their moderate‐income housing element of their general plan. In addition to the
recommendations required under 10‐9a‐403 (2)(b)(iii) and 17‐27a‐403 (2)(b)(ii), for a municipality that
has a fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to implement the strategies
described in 10‐9a‐403 (2)(b)(iii)(G) or (H) and 17‐27a‐403 (2)(b)(ii)(G) or (H). Municipalities shall
annually progress on implementing these recommendations.

                                                STRATEGIES
             *** Repeat questions 1‐5 for each strategy listed in the moderate‐income housing
          element of the general plan. Include additional strategies on a separate document. ***

HOLLADAY CITY STRATEGY 1

1. State strategy municipality included in the moderate‐income housing element of its general plan
below.
 Allow for higher density or moderate‐income residential development in commercial or mixed‐use
     zones, commercial centers or employment centers.

2. Please state the municipality’s goal(s) associated with the strategy
 Review and update where necessary, specific zoning regulations to allow for mixed‐use residential
     development in the Cottonwood Development (Holladay Hills) site, Holladay Village, Holladay
     Crossroads, Oakmont Plaza, and the Black Diamond site.

3. What are the specific outcomes that the strategy intends to accomplish?
 Create opportunity for additional housing units to be built at locations where increased density is
    acceptable according to the General Plan Future Land Use map.

4. Please describe how the municipality has monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goal(s).
 The City uses this annual reporting to help us monitor progress.

5. In the boxes below, outline the following objectives associated with the goal(s) stated in item 2.
  a. Please identify the key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goal(s) stated in item 2.
     The Holladay Hills site, after many years of delay and controversy, is ready to begin development
        of mixed‐use buildings; part of an overall plan to allow for up to 614 dwellings. These new
        dwellings will, over time, free up housing opportunities for younger newcomers to move into the
        City into housing that will be vacated in Holladay and other communities. This site is under study
        for possible mass transit extension from the north and will be easily accessible to existing transit
        and planned bike and canal trails.
     The Holladay Crossroads zone is poised for approval after two years of development and public
        scrutiny. This zone will have a public hearing on 12‐3‐20 and will be adopted in the first quarter


                                                                                                             81
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                 City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



         of 2021. This zone will allow for mixed use buildings and greater housing density setting up more
         housing opportunities in Holladay and nearby major transportation infrastructure and planned
         bike and canal trails.

  b. Please identify the primary parties that are responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage
  identified in item 5a.
    City Staff, Planning Commission, and City Council

  c. Please describe the resources that the municipality must allocate to complete the key task of each
  stage identified in item 5a.
    Pursue development opportunities that include an element of density and/or moderate‐income
        housing at the various locations and encourage appropriate redevelopment of these sites
        through discussions with developers if and when properties become available.

  d. Please state specific deadlines for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item 5a.
    None.

  e. Which of the tasks stated in item 5a have been completed so far, and what have been their results?
    Zone Map Amendment: Holladay Crossroads (HCR)
       o C‐2, Commercial  HCR, Mixed‐Use
                 HCR now allows for a mix of uses including higher density residential development
                    at 6121 S Highland Drive. (City Council approval, March 2021)
                 Talks are underway for the consideration of a moderate‐income housing element as
                    part of a recently approved development project.
    Rezone / Up Zone: 4409 South 2300 East
       o R‐1‐10  R‐2‐10
                 From 8 to 13 housing units. (City Council approval, October 2021)
    Rezone / Up Zone: 4813 Viewmont
       o R‐2‐10  R‐2‐15
                 From 1 to 2 housing units. (City Council approval, April 2021)

  f. How is the municipality addressing results described in 5e that deviate from the desired outcomes
  specified in item 3? What barriers has the municipality encountered during the course of
  implementation of said goals?
    Regarding results that vary from our desired outcomes, did have one instance where the City
       Council did not approve a residential rezone/up zone for an area on Highland Drive. The Council
       struggled with the idea of allowing more density on one parcel as it was located in a bigger swath
       of low density residential even though it abutted a major transportation corridor.
    Regarding barriers we faced, the barriers discussed in 2020 remain in 2021 which include: high
       cost of land, lack of available land, opposition to changes in zoning by the community as a whole
       and reluctance on the part of the Planning Commission and City Council to move too quickly to
       increase density. One of the biggest barriers to increased density and more moderate‐income
       housing is the community’s reluctance to support it.


                                                                                                             82
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




  g. (Optional) Have you considered efforts to use a moderate‐income housing set aside from a
  community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
  agency within your community.
    Yes, the City has a modest set aside of funds for housing but has not yet found the right
       opportunity to expend those funds. However, discussions about how these funds can be
       expended will continue to occur as the Holladay Crossroads zone may provide the right
       opportunity for the City to partner with a property owner(s). Other opportunities include
       partnering with the Salt Lake County Housing Authority, Utah Housing Corporation, or even with
       neighboring communities such as Millcreek or Cottonwood Heights to effectuate additional
       flexible, affordable housing outside of Holladay.

HOLLADAY CITY STRATEGY 2

1. State strategy municipality included in the moderate‐income housing element of its general plan
below.
 Eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a resident is less
     likely to own their own vehicle.

2. Please state the municipality’s goal(s) associated with the strategy
 The City encourages efficiency through shared parking, off‐site parking for new development, and
     reduced parking requirements for mixed use development.

3. What are the specific outcomes that the strategy intends to accomplish?
 Encourage shared parking. The City has approved 3 projects with shared parking agreements, all
    non‐residential.
 Encourage off‐site parking for new development. The City approved 7+ projects with off‐site parking
    for new development. All Holladay Village projects have off‐site/on street parking elements.
 Encourage reduced parking requirements for mixed‐use development. The City approved 1 new
    mixed‐use development with reduced parking requirements in the HCR zone.

4. Please describe how the municipality has monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goal(s).
 The City uses this annual reporting to help us monitor progress.

5. In the boxes below, outline the following objectives associated with the goal(s) stated in item 2.
  a. Please identify the key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goal(s) stated in item 2.
     The task has been accomplished but more work is needed to ensure that similar parking
        reductions are implemented, particularly in the C1 and C2 zones and in the City Centers’. Staff is
        working through this now and hopes to have this vetted by the City Council this calendar year.

  b. Please identify the primary parties that are responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage
  identified in item 5a.
    City Staff, Planning Commission and City Council



                                                                                                            83
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



  c. Please describe the resources that the municipality must allocate to complete the key task of each
  stage identified in item 5a.
    The key resource to getting this accomplished is staff knowledge, expertise, and time.

  d. Please state specific deadlines for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item 5a.
    None.

  e. Which of the tasks stated in item 5a have been completed so far, and what have been their results?
    Staff are currently considering ways to reduce parking ratios in the City’s C1 and C2 zones as well
      as the City Centers’.

  f. How is the municipality addressing results described in 5e that deviate from the desired outcomes
  specified in item 3? What barriers has the municipality encountered during the course of
  implementation of said goals?
    There has been some opposition from the Planning Commission and City Council when parking
       caps have been proposed as they have been skeptical that such reduced requirements won’t
       result in a lack of parking. However, the Holladay Village reduced parking requirements and
       parking cap has not resulted in the feared parking scarcity.

  g. (Optional) Have you considered efforts to use a moderate‐income housing set aside from a
  community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
  agency within your community.

HOLLADAY CITY STRATEGY 3

1. State strategy municipality included in the moderate‐income housing element of its general plan
below.
 Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s) as an additional zoning tool to allow for acceptable infill
     development throughout the community.

2. Please state the municipality’s goal(s) associated with the strategy.
 The City accomplished their goal by passing an ADU ordinance as a way to increase density in areas
     of the City where only single‐family homes are allowed. (City Council approval, September 2021)

3. What are the specific outcomes that the strategy intends to accomplish?
 Increase housing accessibility and types for persons of varying ages that desire to live here or remain
    here as they age out of larger homes. Since the ADU ordinance passed in September 2021, the City
    has received 2 ADU applications which are currently under review for approval.
 Internal ADUs are now permitted in all of the City’s single‐family residential zones; and external
    ADUs are allowed on larger lots and/or allowed when the lot is large enough to be subdivided – this
    adds to the availability of flexible housing types. Since the City passed the ADU ordinance, 2 internal
    ADU projects have been received and 0 external ADU projects have been received.

4. Please describe how the municipality has monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goal(s).


                                                                                                            84
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                  City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031



     The City uses this annual reporting to help us monitor progress.

5. In the boxes below, outline the following objectives associated with the goal(s) stated in item 2.
  a. Please identify the key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goal(s) stated in item 2.
     Staff review state legislation and share with City Council to garner policy direction (May‐June
        2021).
     Staff draft the ADU text amendment in collaboration with City Council, Planning Commission, and
        the public (June‐July 2021).
     Staff promulgate the draft ADU text amendment to garner public comment (August‐September
        2021).
     City Council approve the final ADU ordinance (September 2021).

    b. Please identify the primary parties that are responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage
    identified in item 5a.
      City Staff, Planning Commission, and City Council

    c. Please describe the resources that the municipality must allocate to complete the key task of each
    stage identified in item 5a.
      The key resource to getting this accomplished is staff knowledge, expertise, and time.

    d. Please state specific deadlines for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item 5a.
      October 1, 2021

    e. Which of the tasks stated in item 5a have been completed so far, and what have been their results?
      All of them have been completed as of September 2021, see 5a.

    f. How is the municipality addressing results described in 5e that deviate from the desired outcomes
    specified in item 3? What barriers has the municipality encountered during the course of
    implementation of said goals?
      Fortunately, the City did not encounter too many barriers. Through the process, the City learned
         that the Council also sought to allow external ADUs and passed this when they passed the
         internal ADU ordinance. Importantly, ongoing dialogue and education of the State’s housing crisis
         is required. The City could use additional educational and strategic communication resources.

g. (Optional) Have you considered efforts to use a moderate‐income housing set aside from a
community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal
agency within your community.
 Yes, the City is currently discussing ways in which we can use our moderate‐income housing set
     aside from our CRA projects. As noted above, discussions about how these funds can be expended
     will continue to occur as new developments are proposed. Other potential opportunities include
     partnering with the Salt Lake County Housing Authority, Utah Housing Corporation, or even with
     neighboring communities such as Millcreek or Cottonwood Heights to effectuate additional flexible,
     affordable housing outside of Holladay but may still implement our goals and objectives along with
     our neighboring community’s goals.

                                                                                                              85
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans                                          City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




Five‐Year Needs Estimate
Updated November 2021 using DWS “Five Year Housing Projector Calculator”.
                           Renter         Affordable     Available       Affordable Units              Available Units
  2020 Shortage
                         Households      Rental Units   Rental Units   ‐ Renter Households           ‐ Renter Households
 ≤ 80% HAMFI                10,610         17,615         11,139                          7,005                           529
 ≤ 50% HAMFI                 6,185          6,150          2,799                            ‐35                        ‐3,386
 ≤ 30% HAMFI                 2,875          1,300           189                          ‐1,575                        ‐2,686

                           Renter         Affordable     Available       Affordable Units              Available Units
  2018 Shortage
                         Households      Rental Units   Rental Units   ‐ Renter Households           ‐ Renter Households
 ≤ 80% HAMFI                 1,718          2,665          1,745                           947                            27
 ≤ 50% HAMFI                  865           1,205           495                            340                          ‐370
 ≤ 30% HAMFI                  400            225            30                            ‐175                          ‐370

                           Renter         Affordable     Available       Affordable Units              Available Units
     PROGRESS
                         Households      Rental Units   Rental Units   ‐ Renter Households           ‐ Renter Households
 ≤ 80% HAMFI                     8,892        14,950          9,394                       6,058                           502
 ≤ 50% HAMFI                     5,320         4,945          2,304                        ‐375                        ‐3,016
 ≤ 30% HAMFI                     2,475         1,075            159                      ‐1,400                        ‐2,316

Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently subsidized by each level of
government below:
Municipal Government: 0        Subsidized by municipal housing programs
State Government:      6       Subsidized by Utah's OWHLF multi‐family program
Federal Government: 133        Subsidized by the federal Low‐Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
program
Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently deed‐restricted for
moderate‐income households in the box below:

                               133




                                                                                                                           86
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                               87
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                               88
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                               89
Chapter 9‐ Small Area Master Plans   City of Holladay General Plan‐2016‐2031




                                                                               90
