                                  Holladay city
Who is filling out this report?
Ann Frances Garcia
Economic Development and Housing Manager
annfgarcia@holladayUT.gov
385-425-0853

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://holladayut.gov/departments/economic_development/housing/accessory_dwelling_units_-
_adu_s.php


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://cms3.revize.com/revize/cityofholladay/Document%20Center/Departments/Economic%20
Development%20and%20Housing/Housing%20resources/Chapter%205%20Moderate%20Inco
me%20Housing%20Plan.pdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           309
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://city-of-holladay-
holladay.hub.arcgis.com/apps/735393bf271e497192b827aa82a49602/explore

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
24- Dec

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
165




                                                                                                310
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
Total Applications are 45; 21 ADU permits approved/issued; 1 approved and awaiting payment
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
9 permits for new construction




                                                                                               311
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
1 permit


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
of the 9 new construction: 2 are conversions of existing interior space and 7 are new external
construction.




                                                                                                 312
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
B
E
O
X

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
B
Action1: Increase or improve active transportation access to safe pedestrian infrastructure and
access to nearby amenities like parks and schools.Task 1.1: Expanding transportation services
will contribute to the goal of building a lifelong community for all stages of life by hiring a
contractor to develop a plan for nearby closed Spring Lane Elementary. (Starting 2025)Task
1.2: Improve pedestrian and bike connectivity within mixed use areas and connect into the
surrounding neighborhoods and amenities. Review connectivity needs annually. (Starting 2024)
(Reported 8/1/2024)Task 1.3: Update our Bike and Trail Plan to show bike routes and public
transit connections on and revisit on an annual basis. (Starting 2025)Task 1.4: Share links on
the city’s website on public transit connections and schedules. Update annually or as needed.
(Starting 2024)Action 2: Research grants and participate in discussions with regional
organizations to help fund for infrastructure projects and rehabilitation.Task 2.1: Provide
information on at least 1 grant application to be submitted or be considered for submittal by the
end of the reporting year. (Starting 2024) Task 2.2: Apply for funding to improve Highland Drive
and make it more pedestrian friendly for our residents, many who utilize bus transit. Research
for funding annually. (Starting 2024) (Reported 8/1/2024)Task 2.3: Research and apply for at
least 1 grant annually for further infrastructure improvements like sidewalks and increasing safe
routes to school and other destinations. (Starting 2024) (Reported 8/1/2024)

E
Action 1: Conduct public engagement study to determine hinderances to remodeling existing
homes and amend ordinances accordingly.Task 1.1: No Ongoing tasksAction Completed – ADU




                                                                                              313
Ordinance passed Sept. 2021Action 2: Implement procedures encouraging ADU occupancy of
approved “mother‐in‐law” apartment situations, established via “Second Kitchen Affidavit” policy,
in order to identify legal remodels with secondary kitchenettes, etc.Task 2.1: Monitor Quarterly
ADU production (started 2023)Task 2.2: Send an annual letter to residents explaining protection
of homeownership rights relating to ADU in residential zones. (Starting 2024)Task 2.3: Educate
the community, and provide a summary to the City Council, annually, on ADU’s and encourage
those with illegal ADUs to become legal and meet adopted legal building codes. The city will
provide education by updating the city’s website, biannually, with information on legalizing their
ADU. (Starting 2024)Action 3: Evaluate the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) program
citywideTask 3.1: Monitor legislative changes annually to determine if further changes are
required. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Task 3.2: Educate the community, and provide
a summary to the City Council, annually, on ADU’s and encourage those with current illegal
ADUs to become legal and meet adopted legal building codes by updating our city’s website,
biannual, with information on legalizing their ADU. (Starting 2024). Task 3.3: Work with the City
Council on defining what an amnesty program would look like for those who currently rent illegal
ADUs. Revisit the Amnesty program annually to evaluate the utilization of the program. (Starting
2024)Task 3.4: Quarterly Review and evaluate the code for revisions that may help streamline
ADU development. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Task 3.5: Conduct proactive code
enforcement annually to promote good property maintenance and to educate landlords.
(Starting 2025)

O
Action 1: Beginning June 2022 and Bi‐yearly thereafter, a meeting shall be convened with the
intent to seek out and apply for Salt Lake County incentive programs or partnership with other
entities which apply for incentive programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation, the
Department of Workforce Services, or by an association of governments established by an
interlocal agreement. Task 1.1: Partner with Royal Holladay Hills. A development agreement
was executed (Completed)Task 1.2: Hire an Economic Development & Housing Manager with
the intent to seek out partnerships and research programs that would further the goal of
promoting/preserving moderate income housing in the city. (Completed 2023)Task 1.3: Develop
a marketing plan for housing programs that can be provided by community-based partners and
revise as needed on an annual basis. (Starting 2025)Task 1.4: Create an inventory of housing
programs, and revise as needed on a biannual basis, and make that information readily
available to existing and new residents seeking homeownership opportunities, housing
rehabilitation services and rental assistance. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Task 1.5:
Maintain a close partnership with the Housing Authority of Salt Lake County to facilitate rental
assistance or other eligible programs for residents, research their site quarterly for programs
and continue to coordinate meetings on an annual basis. (Started 2023)Task 1.6: Set up a
meeting with TURN in 2025 and continue discussions annually – they have a project at Holladay
Duplex (focus on population with disabilities) to discuss their plans for the units after their
expiration under the OWHLF program that their affordability expires in 2029. (Starting
2025)Action 2: Apply for CDBG funding, and if awarded to create and offer housing
programming to include Home Repair Grant program for moderate income residents.Task 2.1:
Contact CDBG representatives to establish a relationship and get registered for their workshops




                                                                                               314
for application. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Task 2.2: Apply for CDBG grant funding,
annually, to fund these programs. (Starting 2024)Task 2.3: Monitor annually current
partnerships and seek out new partnerships to support these housing programs for our
moderate-income residents. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Action 3: Increase access to
programs that relate to property resilience. Homes can have conditions that lead to building
degradation and make them vulnerable to weatherization or other disasters. This action will
connect residents with resources to keep their homes maintained and possibly mitigate potential
health risks.Task 3.1: Research and develop a plan that helps us partner with housing agencies
to provide preservation opportunities and resources for our residents. Update if needed on an
annual basis. (Starting 2024)Task 3.2: Educate residents and connect them to resources by
posting links and information on our city website, on the programs where funding may be
available to reduce conditions within a home that may be harmful to families like water leaks
and ventilation issues. Revise quarterly or as needed. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
X
Action 1: Collect and access housing and demographic data to determine immediate and future
housing needs and goals.Task 1.1: Collect baseline data, evaluate and analyze and post
results on the website on an annual basis. (Starting 2024)Action 2: Apply for CDBG funds to
create a Housing Rehabilitation Program or Neighborhood Improvement Program if
awarded.Task 2.1: Annually budget and apply for CDBG funding. (Starting 2024)Task 2.2:
Create a Housing Rehabilitation Program with guidelines and application, revise annually if
needed. (Starting 2025 if awarded grant)Task 2.3: On an annual basis identify areas that
qualify as eligible census tracts for Moderate Income residents. (Starting 2024)Action 3:
Promote Fair HousingTask 3.1: Promote on our city’s website fair housing practices by making
available links and information on agencies that offer fair housing services. Revise annually or
as information changes. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Action 4: Promote Senior
Housing OpportunitiesTask 4.1: Research and build a list of senior housing services to assist
our aging population with resources to find housing and services. Revise annually or as
information changes (Starting 2024)Task 4.2: Add a list of Senior housing opportunities to the
City’s website and continue to update annually (Starting 2024)Action 5: Promote and provide
water and energy conservation information to our residentsTask 5.1: Research programs for
residents on water, solar and other energy conservation improvement programs to assist and
ease the stress of high housing costs. Update annually or as needed (Starting 2024) (reported
on 8/1/2024)Task 5.2: Promote these programs on the city’s website and update biannually.
(Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)Action 6: Provide residents with a list of apartments with
various accommodations.Task 6.1: Gather all city-wide apartments contact information and
update annually on our city’s website to assist residents in finding housing in Holladay (Starting
2024)Action 7: Offer Rental Subsidies or Down Payment Assistance information to eligible
residents.Task 7.1: Provide opportunities to offset rising housing costs and promote
reinvestment in existing single family residential areas to MIH residents. Research opportunities
on an annual basis. (Starting 2026)




                                                                                               315
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
B
Action 1: Increase or improve active transportation access to safe pedestrian infrastructure and
access to nearby amenities like parks and schools.Task 1.2: Improve pedestrian and bike
connectivity within mixed use areas and connect into the surrounding neighborhoods and
amenities. Review connectivity needs annually. (Starting 2024) (Reported 8/1/2024)•A large
number of our moderate-income households are located west of Highland Dr, south of Murray-
Holladay Road, in addition to west of N Highland Dr., between 3900 S to 4500 S. We reported
on this last year and throughout this reporting year, city staff have been evaluating and applying
for grants that would assist filling our connectivity gaps, prioritizing areas that are close to
schools, amenities and economic centers. Budget year 2025-26, the city council prioritized
public assets and infrastructure by continuing to commit budget resources to the maintenance of
city owned infrastructure including roads, storm drains, parks and major arterials. This year the
city was committed to prioritizing filling in the sidewalk gaps on 2700 E from 3900 S to 4500 S.
The priorities for this next fiscal year 2025-2026, we continue to focus on improving
neighborhood accessibility. •The city applied for 6 transportation grants for projects in these
areas to provide improvements for infrastructure to support the creation and preservation of MIH
housing in the city, in addition to providing improved access for these residents. During the 2nd
and 3rd quarters we submitted these grant applications. Three were submitted on 12/9/2024 to
WFRC: WFRC STP/Highland Drive Reconstruction and Complete Street Project; WFRC CMAQ
/ I-215 Shared Use Path; WFRC CRP / I-215 Shared – Use Path; WFRC Road Safety
Audit/Highland Drive from 3900 South to Arbor Lane – submitted 1/29/2025; UDOT TAP
Sidewalk Fill-in on South Side of 5600 South from Highland Drive to Van Winkle Expressway –
submitted on 4/30/2025; and UDOT Safe Sidewalks Program, Sidewalk Fill-in on North Side of
4500 South, Phase II – submitted on 4/30/2025. These submittals show our commitment to
creating and improving transportation access and expanding infrastructure in our community by
applying for assistance to help implement these projects.Task 1.3: Update our Bike and Trail
Plan to show bike routes and public transit connections on and revisit on an annual basis.
(Starting 2025)•During the 4th quarter, in response to recent legislative changes enacted
through Utah HB 290 (Bike Lane Safety Amendments), city staff initiated a Bike Route and
Signage Study on June 10, 2025. The purpose was to evaluate and catalog existing bike
signage and designated routes within the city, ensuring alignment with the State’s official
definition of a “Bicycle Lane”. City staff have also been mapping and assessing current bicycle
infrastructure conditions and conducting a comprehensive field verification of existing bike
network locations and notating any gaps in connections and appropriate signage that are
missing along the various routes. •The resulting analysis provided an updated inventory of the
city’s bike routes and signage infrastructure. All findings were compiled and spatially mapped
using ArcGIS Pro and uploaded to our city’s website. These efforts are to ensure that we
provide a safe opportunity to access nearby amenities, schools and workplaces.Task 1.4: Share
links on the city’s website on public transit connections and schedules. Update annually or as




                                                                                               316
needed. (Starting 2024)•During the 4th quarter, city staff uploaded all connection points and
bike routes on the city’s website for the community to reference. There are three downloadable
maps and 1 interactive map that are available: Pedestrian Network Map; Bicycle Network Map;
Transit Network Map; and a Transit Connections Look-up that has direct links to the transit
schedules. By providing access to these maps, it assists in expanding access to transit
connections. Providing links and access to these maps makes for a more walkable and
pedestrian friendly community. Action 2: Research grants and participate in discussions with
regional organizations to help fund infrastructure projects and rehabilitation. Task 2.1: Provide
information on at least 1 grant application to be submitted or be considered for submittal by the
end of the reporting year (Starting 2024).•The city applied for 6 infrastructure/transportation
grants for projects in priority areas around the city to provide improvements on infrastructure to
support the creation and preservation of MIH housing in the city, in addition to providing
improved access for these residents. During the 2nd and 3rd quarters we submitted these grant
applications. Three were submitted on 12/9/2024 to WFRC: WFRC STP/Highland Drive
Reconstruction and Complete Street Project; WFRC CMAQ / I-215 Shared Use Path; WFRC
CRP / I-215 Shared – Use Path; WFRC Road Safety Audit/Highland Drive from 3900 South to
Arbor Lane – submitted 1/29/2025; UDOT TAP Sidewalk Fill-in on South Side of 5600 South
from Highland Drive to Van Winkle Expressway – submitted on 4/30/2025; and UDOT Safe
Sidewalks Program, Sidewalk Fill-in on North Side of 4500 South, Phase II – submitted on
4/30/2025. Task 2.2: Apply for funding to improve Highland Drive and make it more pedestrian
friendly for our residents, many who utilize bus transit. Research for funding annually (Starting
2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024).•The city applied for 2 grants that would make a big impact on
improving Highland Drive and creating a more complete street project, which would assist in it
becoming more pedestrian friendly for our residents. Both grants were submitted to the WFRC,
both in the second quarter. The grants were listed in Task 2.1. We have 2 of the busiest bus
stops in the city on Highland. Improving Highland Drive and making it more pedestrian friendly
will make a huge impact in it’s use, especially with the economic centers along Highland and
access for its employees. Task 2.3: Research and apply at least 1 grant annually for further
infrastructure improvements like sidewalks and increasing safe routes to school and other
destinations. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)•The city applied for 2 grants to UDOT. One
under their TAP program for Sidewalk Fill-in and 1 for UDOT’s Safe Sidewalks Program. Both
applications, if awarded, would support our efforts in making pedestrian travel safer and more
connected. These grants would assist with school, work and amenity connectivity for our
residents.

E
Action 2: Implement procedures encouraging ADU occupancy of approved “mother-in-law”
apartment situations, established via “Second Kitchen Affidavit” policy, in order to identify legal
remodels with secondary kitchenettes, etc. Task 2.1: Monitor Quarterly ADU production (started
2023)•On a quarterly basis, city staff pulls a report on ADU applications submittals to see if the
changes that we are implementing are making an impact and generating an easier process for
the community. Since January 2025, city staff noticed a slight increase in applications for
external ADU’s after the ordinance adoption. This is encouraging and city staff will continue
monitoring and tracking issues throughout the application process.Action 3: Evaluate the




                                                                                                 317
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) program citywide.Task 3.1: Monitor legislative changes annually
to determine if further changes are required. (Starting 2024)•City staff meets regularly during
legislative sessions to review bills that would have an impact on our city. This includes anything
that involves housing and transportation. We have created an Excel spreadsheet that we notate
on which bill we will follow, who will research and report on it to the city group, and provide any
actions that need to be taken as a city. We do this on an annual basis starting in January and
continue through the summer. Any bills that require us to revise our ADU ordinance will be
initiated and implemented.Task 3.4: Quarterly Review and evaluate the code for revisions that
may help streamline ADU development. (Starting 2024)•City staff continue to evaluate our ADU
development and study alternatives to offer recommendations to the City Council on how we
can streamline the process for ADU development. On September 9, 2024, the city council
discussed proposed amendments to ADUs. There were four previous Council sessions that had
been conducted on the proposed code amendment. This code amendment would create fewer
restrictions around ADU development. Staff proposed revising the ordinance primarily for
external ADU and converting existing accessory buildings to ADU. On. Nov. 7, 2024, City
Council approved/passed Ordinance 2024-19, adopting title 13.14.031 – Accessory Dwelling
Units. The ordinance became effective in January 2025 and staff noticed an increase in permit
application in the last 6 months.

O
Action1: Beginning June 2022 and Bi‐yearly thereafter, a meeting shall be convened with the
intent to seek out and apply for Salt Lake County incentive programs or partnership with other
entities which apply for incentive programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation, the
Department of Workforce Services, or by an association of governments established by an
interlocal agreement. Task 1.4: Create an inventory of housing programs, and revise as needed
on a biannual basis, and make that information readily available to existing and new residents
seeking homeownership opportunities, housing rehabilitation services and rental assistance.
(Starting 2024)•City staff on a biannual basis, review various programs that are offered through
federal, state and local agencies and organizations. We research and collect the information
and links that would be helpful for the community. The links and information are uploaded to the
city’s website and shared with the community to assist our low-to-moderate income households
to lower housing costs for preservation and maintenance. By staying on top of what our partner
agencies are offering we can provide key and timely information to our residents and
developers. We also were able to find a partner, NeighborWorks Salt Lake, through this process
of review. They will be our contractor to help administer our Housing Rehabilitation
Program.Action 2: Apply for CDBG funding and if awarded to create and offer housing
programming to include Home Repair Grant program for moderate income residents.Task 2.1:
Contact CDBG representatives to establish a relationship and get registered for their workshops
for application. (Starting 2024) •On 8/1/2024 we reported that we established contact and a
relationship with our Salt Lake County representative for this CDBG program. Since then, we
understand that there have been some staff who have left. We continue to try to stay abreast of
new staff so that we can continue building relationships and staying on top of changes and new
programs. Task 2.2: Apply for CDBG grant funding, annually, to fund these programs. (Starting
2024)•The city applied for CDBG funds in Oct. 2024 to create a Housing Rehabilitation Program




                                                                                                318
for our low-to-moderate-income residents. The city applied for $220,000 and were recently
notified in June 2025 that we were awarded these funds. The city is currently waiting for the
interlocal agreement from the County before we can get started. •By applying for CDBG funds it
will help the city provide a program for our low-to-moderate income homeowners. The city has
limited funds and having these additional funds to help create this program will help implement
this strategy. We are also using our Housing set-aside funds to help cover the fees associated
with the loan applications.Action 3: Increase access to programs that relate to property
resilience. Homes can have conditions that lead to building degradation and make them
vulnerable to weatherization or other disasters. This action will connect residents with resources
to keep their homes maintained and possibly mitigate potential health risks. Task 3.2: Educate
residents and connect them to resources by posting links and information on our city website,
on the programs where funding may be available to reduce conditions within a home that may
be harmful to families like water leaks and ventilation issues. Revise quarterly or as needed.
(Starting 2024)•On a quarterly basis, city staff reviews the current programs that are listed on
our website and make sure that they are still active. Staff also research new programs and
resources that may be available from Federal, State, Local and Non-Profit organizations and
connect our residents to them by posting links and contact information for them on our website.
Programs and resources are what our residents look for when trying to maintain their home,
especially for health and safety reasons. By sharing these resources, our residents are more
aware of what is available to help lower their housing costs and preserve our low-to-moderate
income housing stock.

X
Action 2: Apply for CDBG funds to create a Housing Rehabilitation Program or Neighborhood
Improvement Program if awarded.Task 2.2: Create a Housing Rehabilitation Program with
guidelines and application, revise annually if needed. (Starting 2025 if awarded grant)•Staff
applied for CDBG funding and was awarded $220,000 for program year 2025-26. The city is
working on executing a contract with NeighborWorks Salt Lake, a nonprofit organization, to
administer this new Housing Rehabilitation program that will focus on assisting low-to-moderate
income household owners in Holladay. Being able to partner with these types of agencies will
assist the city, especially with a small staff and low capacity to run this type of program. We
anticipate that this program will allow our low-to-moderate income households to maintain their
homes and possibly mitigate potential health and safety risks. Due to inflation and high costs of
materials, our disadvantaged homeowners have a hard time covering the costs to maintain their
homes. Establishing these types of programs and making them available will provide an
opportunity for them to complete necessary repairs to their homes.•This will be our first year
offering this program to our residents. Anticipated program start is August/September 2025. We
will use an In-Kind Match of city staff time (approximately 5 hours a week) to oversee the
contractor (NeighborWorks) and assist with the marketing of the program. Processing the loans
will have an estimated cost of $1,340 per loan. For the $200,000, we are planning to process 8
loans for up to $25,000. The processing fee for these loans will total $10,720. The city decided
to cover this processing fee from redevelopment housing set-aside funds instead of having the
homeowner pay the fee out of the loan funds. This will make it more accessible for these
residents.Task 2.3: On an annual basis identify areas that qualify as eligible census tracts for




                                                                                               319
Moderate Income residents. (Starting 2024)•In July 2025, city staff pulled Census data on the
census tracts and block groups that would qualify for this program. We are now aware of the
areas around the city to focus our marketing efforts on to encourage residents to apply for these
funds. These funds will assist with health and safety repair and preserve sustainable living
conditions of our existing moderate income housing stock. Action 3: Promote Fair HousingTask
3.1 : Promote on our city’s website fair housing practices by making available links and
information on agencies that offer fair housing services. Revise annually or as information
changes. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)•The city continues to promote fair housing
practices on our city’s website. All links and information on agencies that offer fair housing
services are available and revised as needed. City staff reviewed the listings but report no
changes this reporting year.




4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
B
There were no land use decisions needed to implement this strategy.

E
An ADU ordinance revision passed in November 2024 by the City Council. It became effective
in Jan. 2025 and ADU permits submittals increased in the last 6 months from 5 to 9.

O
No land use decisions were needed to implement this strategy.

X
No land use decision as used to implement this strategy.




5.       What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
B
Costs associated with these infrastructure projects are a significant barrier. Inflation has caused
the prices for construction to increase dramatically. Grants to help cover a portion of the cost is
what we hope for to help implement these projects. If we are not successful in obtaining a grant
to aid in funding a project, it would become a barrier to implement this strategy.




                                                                                                320
E
Concerns about setbacks and loss of privacy were fears from the community during the various
public hearings and meetings.

O
The barrier is keeping up with staff transition for various funding organizations and waiting to
hear back on award, process and contracts. This adds to the delay of implementing these
programs that are so important for our low-to-moderate income residents.

X
There is a lot of data to analyze and evaluate and research. Time is a barrier to make sure that
we have accurate and timely data for our residents to utilize and make the best decisions.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
B
The community has been in favor of these projects as proposed. There is some discontent
when projects get under way with travel delays due to road closures and travel interruptions.
More noticing is planned to avoid the significant impacts.

E
With the revision of the ADU ordinance, the city has received new permit applications and there
has been an increase in external ADU permits

O
Residents are slowly realizing that our city’s website is a good source for resources. This year,
staff has received approximately 13 calls with questions on the resources listed and asking for
more energy efficiency and water resources. They’ve asked to be added to a waitlist if available
for any housing rehabilitation programs. Staff have shared that they need to visit the city's
website on a quarterly basis for new resources. We do not currently have a waitlist but will
consider it as we move forward with our new Housing Rehabilitation Program.

X
As of the fourth quarter in this reporting period, the community is interested in what we are
posting on our website and excited to see the number of resources that are available. This year
our department has received 13 calls on new opportunities that were listed under our Housing &
Community Resources webpage.




                                                                                                   321
7.   Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
B

E

O

X




     Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
B

E

O

X




                                                         322
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Reporting technical
assistance,Education on partnering with nonprofit organizations or housing authorities


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
The State does a very good job of getting information out to the municipalities.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   323
