CiTy OF HOLLADAY
@ RESOLUTION NO. 2025-02

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY AMENDING

PROVISIONS OF THE CITY’S MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN

WHEREAS, the City of Holladay have previously adopted a Moderate Income Housing
Plan to assist in the availability of more affordable housing in the City, while still protecting
property values within the City; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to comply with HB 462, the City now desires to make minor
numerical amendments to the Moderate Income Housing Plan with the goal to highlight the
action items and associated tasks and provide a more efficient reporting process; and

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Holladay as
follows:

Section 1. Amendment. The Amended Moderate Income Housing Plan of the City of
Holladay as set forth in Exhibit A to this Resolution is hereby adopted by the City Council of the
City of Holladay.

Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid

r ) or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.
Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
approval by the City Council.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of March, 2025.
HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
By: 2__ 7 & lh
Emily Gray, Kooy em NN
[SEAL] wo oe tin, VOTING:
EHO, Ty Brewer Yea Nay___
< FOUR OSA Matt Durham Yea u~ Nay _
BoP fe. ae Paul Fotheringham Yea we Nay
zg 3 cy foi Drew Quinn Year” Nay
% On. SER 2 é Emily Gray Year Nay _
Ps ‘y 2 FG aN ao Robert Dahle Yea Nay yeas sch
ATTEST:
NvsSercnst 3 Cans e
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 20" day of March, 2025.
RECORDED this 20" day of March, 2025.
-2-
BREE ilsnnal| Gingell annali|aana|
e City of Holladay
City Council
strategy % siroteey
ba beaeonsted ig rere cine hacen AOA PNGIADS a, internal of detached
Strategy P: WoO HE PCA) accessory dotting nits in
CITY-WIDE GOAL . :
CREATE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES tenn xcs ts hn dest
FOR EXISTING AND FUTURE movterate ingame resdenthat
Shateey HOLLADAY RESIDENTS THROUGH TE tae
EES itinerant icneiise DIVERSE HOUSING TYPES & a Oy
SESE Serene Ss MODERATE. INCOME HOUSING ea
Reduce, wale, of olhainate: “bfezingg a brontlace weentive page am, oe veh ide, aech as fententel
Bune y Tene eae coemimaiatn oe
LEGEND: Red Text = Additions .
STRATEGY B: Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of Infrastructure that facilitates the |
construction of moderate-income housing, §20-9a-403(2)(bH M(B) 0
Goal: 1 and 3
[SC~*~*~CActionn items | Tasks
Action 1: Increase or improve active transportation Task 1.1: Expanding transportation services will contribute to the
access to safe pedestrian infrastructure and access to goal of building a lifelong community for all stages of life by hiring a
nearby amenities like parks and schools. contractor to develop a plan for nearby closed Spring Lane
Elementary. (Starting 2025) ©
Task 1.2: Improve pedestrian and bike connectivity within mixed
use areas and connect into the surrounding neighborhoods and
amenities. Review connectivity needs annually. (Starting 2024)
(Reported 8/1/2024)
Task 1.3: Update our Bike and Trail Plan to show bike routes and
public transit connections on and revisit on an annual basis.
(Starting 2025)
Task 1.4: Share links on the city’s website on public transit
| connections and schedules. Update annually or as needed.
| (Starting 2024)
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 2 of 9
Vere ELceT ogo Ee EH
r ) City of Holladay
City Council
Action 2: Research grants and participate in Task 2.1: Provide information on at least 1 grant application to be
discussions with regional organizations to help fund for submitted or be considered for submittal by the end of the
infrastructure projects and rehabilitation. reporting year. (Starting 2024)
Task 2.2: Apply for funding to improve Highland Drive and make it
more pedestrian friendly for our residents, many who utilize bus
transit. Research for funding annually. (Starting 2024) (Reported
8/1/2024)
Task 2.3: Research and apply for at least 1 grant annually for further
infrastructure improvements like sidewalks and increasing safe
routes to school and other destinations. (Starting 2024) (Reported
8/1/2024)
STRATEGY E: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling
units in residential zones. §10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(E)
[ation items ——sCi=‘“‘*‘~*~dC*dC*‘“‘(™S(CN#NC#*MSRS Timeline
Action 1: Conduct public engagement study to Task ‘1.1: No Ongoing tasks
determine hinderances to remodeling existing homes Action Completed — ADU Ordinance passed Sept. 2021
and amend ordinances accordingly.
Action 2: implement procedures encouraging ADU Task 2.1: Monitor Quarterly ADU production (started 2023)
occupancy of approved “mother-in-law” apartment Task 2.2: Send an annual letter to residents explaining protection of
situations, established via “Second Kitchen Affidavit” homeownership rights relating to ADU in residential zones.
policy, in order to identify legal remodels with (Starting 2024)
secondary kitchenettes, etc. Task 2.3: Educate the community, and provide a summary to the
City Council, annually, on ADU’s and encourage those with illegal
ADUs to become legal and meet adopted legal building codes. The
city will provide education by updating the city’s website,
biannually, with information on legalizing their ADU. (Starting 2024)
Action 3: Evaluate the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Tatk 3.1: Monitor legislative changes annually to determine if
program citywide further changes are required. (Starting 2024) (Reported on
8/1/2024)

: Task 3.2: Educate the community, and provide a summary to the
City Council, annually, on ADU’s and encourage those with current
illegal ADUs to become legal and meet adopted legal building codes
by updating our city’s website, biannual, with information on
legalizing their ADU. (Starting 2024).

Task 3.3: Work with the City Council on defining what an amnesty
program would look like for those who currently rent illegal ADUs.
Revisit the Amnesty program annually to evaluate the utilization of
the program. (Starting 2024)
Task 3.4: Quarterly Review and evaluate the code for revisions that
may help streamline ADU development. (Starting 2024) (Reported |
on 8/1/2024) |
Task 3.5: Conduct proactive code enforcement annually to promote |
good property maintenance and to educate landlords. (Starting
2025)
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 3 of 9
| ct Ea lofu ten si
City of Holladay
City Council @ |
STRATEGY F: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial
or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers.
§10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(F)
[| Actionttems | Tasks
Action 1: Study and review potential housing Task 1.1: No ongoing tasks
related amendments to the Office Research and e Action Completed
Development (ORD) zone by December 31, 2022, to
facilitate new moderate housing types in this major
| employment center.
| Action 2: Adopt new mixed-use zone designation Task 2.1: No ongoing tasks
| for the Holladay Crossroads Small Area Master Plan e Action Completed
: (HCR-SAMP) by December 31, 2022, as a transit
oriented, mixed-use zone available for multi-family
residential development.
Action 3: Study and review potential housing Task 3.1: Create a Study Committee to address housing related
related amendments to the C-1 and C-2 commercial amendments and provide updates on their progress on a
zones, to recommend facilitating additional housing biannual basis. (Starting 2024)
types in these mixed-use zones. Task 3.2: Research and develop a list of properties that fall
= eee
recommendations. (Starting 2024)
STRATEGY H: Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential
development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident’s own vehicle, such as residential
development near major transit Investment corridors or senior living facilities. §10-9a- 403(2)(b)(iii)(H)
Goal: 1, 2 and3
[Cones SSCS SC~*dY
Action 1: Complete a study period proposing a Task 1.1: No Ongoing Tasks
reduction to multi-family and related residential ¢ Completed in 2022
parking requirements with alternative off-street
parking options by December 31, 2022.
403(2)(b){iii)(t)
| Actionttems Tasks
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 4 of 9
SES Ses  - = Sead 4 aoe ame
@ City of Holladay
City Council
STRATEGY K: Preserve existing and new moderate-income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a
landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or notwithstanding
Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund. §10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(K)
PSSCction items P| Tasks
Action 1: Preservation of subsidized units Task 1.1: Reference state preservation notice law and start reaching
out to owners at least 3-6 years prior to expiration date and revisit
on an annual basis with a progress report on communication with
property owners. (Starting 2024)
Task 1.2: Annually, research the need for Rental Assistance
programs for at-risk populations. (Starting 2024)
Action 2: Preserve existing moderate-income Task 2.1: Research properties that have potential to be converted to
housing MIH due to their need for rehabilitation and revisit annually for any
changes. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Task 2.2: Biannually reach out to property owners of properties that
could be converted to MIH and establish relationships and report on
progress. (Starting 2024)
Task 2.3: Staff will track existing and new moderate-income housing
quarterly. (Starting 2024)
Action 3: Promote Housing Preservation and link to Task 3.1: Partner with organizations that promote programs that
programs that will help residents maintain their assist residents with maintaining their home and provide incentives
homes and lower costs for maintaining their homes. to preserve their homes and lower costs for maintaining their
homes. Review partnerships and progress ona biannual basis.
(Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Action 1: Park !mpact Fees may be considered to be Task 1.1: Review the RFP’s for the General Plan and Spring Lane to
waived for proposed new developments, for new MIH evaluate how they will influence the impact study. (Starting 2024)
housing units. Task 1.2: Create a study committee to review previous and current
« RFP’s that may impact MIH and how impact fees relate to MIH and
: review on an annual basis. (Starting 2025)
Task 1.3: Coordinate for completing an impact study and share
: progress on an annual basis. (Starting 2025)
Action 2: Complete an impact study to revise the Task 2.1: Coordinate the tasks to conduct and complete an impact
current fee analysis with intent to reduce current study, with the intent to reduce impact fees related to MIH housing
Impact Fees as they relate to MIH housing. development and revisit and report on a quarterly basis once
started. (Starting 2025)
STRATEGY O: Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to
promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs offered by the
Utah Housing Corporation withing that agency’s funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing |
programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing
programs administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title
1, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies for programs or
services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income housing. §10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(O)
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 5 of 9
a ine SE EE 7
City of Holladay
City Council e@
a
Action 1: Beginning June 2022 and Bi-yearly thereafter, Task 1.1: Partner with Royal Holladay Hills. A development
a meeting shall be convened with the intent to seek out agreement was executed (Completed)
and apply for Salt Lake County incentive programs or Task 1.2: Hire an Economic Development & Housing Manager with
partnership with other entities which apply for the intent to seek out partnerships and research programs that
incentive programs offered by the Utah Housing would further the goal of promoting/preserving moderate income
| Corporation, the Department of Workforce Services, or housing in the city. (Completed 2023)
| by an association of governments established by an Task 1.3: Develop a marketing plan for housing programs that can
interlocal agreement. be provided by community-based partners and revise as needed on
an annual basis. (Starting 2025)
Task 1.4: Create an inventory of housing programs, and revise as
needed on a biannual basis, and make that information readily
available to existing and new residents seeking homeownership
opportunities, housing rehabilitation services and rental assistance.
(Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Task 1.5: Maintain a close partnership with the Housing Authority of
Salt Lake County to facilitate rental assistance or other eligible
programs for residents, research their site quarterly for programs
and continue to coordinate meetings on an annual basis. (Started
2023)
Task 1.6: Set up a meeting with TURN in 2025 and continue
discussions annually — they have a project at Holladay Duplex (foc! ,
on population with disabilities) to discuss their plans for the units
after their expiration under the OWHLF program that their
affordability expires in 2029. (Starting 2025)
Action 2: Apply for CDBG funding, and if awarded to Task 2.1: Contact CDBG representatives to establish a relationship
create and offer housing programming to include Home and get registered for their workshops for application. (Starting
Repair Grant program for moderate income residents. 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
‘ Task 2.2: Apply for CDBG grant funding, annually, to fund.these
programs. (Starting 2024)
Task 2.3: Monitor annually current partnerships and seek out new
partnerships to support these housing programs for our moderate-
income residents. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Action 3: Increase access to programs that relate to Task 3.1: Research and develop a plan that helps us partner with
property resilience. Homes can have conditions that housing agencies to provide preservation opportunities and
lead to building degradation and make them vulnerable resources for our residents. Update if needed on an annual basis.
to weather or other disasters. This action will connect (Starting 2024)
residents with resources to keep their homes Task 3.2: Educate residents and connect them to resources by
maintained and possibly mitigate potential health risks. posting links and information on our city website, on the programs
where funding may be available to reduce conditions within a home
that may be harmful to families like water leaks and ventilation
issues. Revise quarterly or as needed. (Starting 2024) (Reported on
8/1/2024)
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 6 of 9
ifiaaal nua Of o: TAG fanaa
@ City of Holladay
City Council
STRATEGY P: Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set-aside from a community reinvestment
agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency to create or subsidize
moderate income housing. §10-9a-403(2}(b)(iii)(P)
[Ctionitems | Eases
Action 1: We currently have housing funds generated Task 1.1: Establish an RDA partnership (Started in 2022) (Reported on
by RDA projects with approximately a million dollars 8/1/2024)
or more earmarked for affordable housing. More than Task 1.2: Partner with the County on property within Holladay and
100 MIH units to be established. coordinate annual conversations. (Started in 2023)
Action 2: Conduct a process and policy establishment Task 2.1: Create a study committee (including the County) to review
study, designed to require new higher density mixed use properties and help develop a process and possible
developments to have a minimum percentage of the inclusionary policy, revisit on an annual basis to make adjustments as
dwellings to be set aside for lower income households needed to the process. (Starting in 2025) (Who to invite to be a part
through the possibility of density bonuses and/or of this study committee?)
other tools Task 2.2: Coordinate monthly meetings with the Study Committee to
evaluate possible affordable housing opportunities and how we can
best use our set-aside funds in new developments. (Starting in 2025)
STRATEGY X: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of
residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication of a
local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10%
or more of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing §10-
9a-403(2)(b)(iii)(X)
Action 1: Collect and access housing and Task 1.1: Collect baseline data, evaluate and analyze and post
Sa. |
| housing needs and goals.
7 Action 2: Apply for CDBG funds to create a Housing Task 2.1: Annually budget and apply for CDBG funding.
Rehabilitation Program or Neighborhood (Starting 2024)
Improvement Program if awarded. Task 2.2: Create a Housing Rehabilitation Program with
guidelines and application, revise annually if needed. (Starting
2025 if awarded grant)
Task 2.3: On an annual basis identify areas that qualify as
eligible census tracts for Moderate Income residents. (Starting
—
Action 3: Promote Fair Housing Task 3.1: Promote on our city’s website fair housing practices
by making available links and information on agencies that
a
changes. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Pa OS | aes
to assist our aging population with resources to find housing
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 7 of 9
City of Holladay
City Council
and services. Revise annually or as information changes
(Starting 2024)
Task 4.2: Adda list of Senior housing opportunities to the
| City’s website and continue to update annually (Starting 2024)
Action 5: Promote and provide water and energy Task 5.1: Research programs for residents on water, solar and
conservation information to our residents. other energy conservation improvement programs to assist
and ease the stress of high housing costs. Update annually or
as needed (Starting 2024) (reported on 8/1/2024)
Task 5.2: Promote these programs on the city’s website and
update biannually. (Starting 2024) (Reported on 8/1/2024)
Action 6: Provide residents with a list of apartments Task 6.1: Gather all city-wide apartments contact information
with various accommodations. and update annually on our city’s website to assist residents in
finding housing in Holladay (Starting 2024)
Action 7: Offer Rental Subsidies or Down Payment Task 7.1: Provide opportunities to offset rising housing costs
Assistance information to eligible residents. and promote reinvestment in existing single family residential
areas to MIH residents. Research opportunities on an annual
basis. (Starting 2026)
mn f
Moderate Income Housing Plan Amendment Page 8 of 9
© city ¢ HOLLADAY

NOTICE TO AFFECTED ENTITIES

PUBLIC MEETING & HEARING

‘ GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
PUBLIC NOTICE is given pursuant to Utah Code, annotated 17-27a-203, and being sent to those entities
entitled to such notice.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: That the City of Holladay intends to revise and adopt the Moderate-Income
Housing Element to the General Plan to add numbering to the action and tasks items to ensure a more
straightforward reporting process to remain in compliance with requirements adopted by the State
Legislature during the 2022 Legislative Session.
The public and each of the affected entities are invited to provide information for Holladay to consider in
the process of reviewing the proposed plan adoption.
The Planning Commission will hold a PUBLIC HEARING on the proposed amendment
Tuesday February 18, 2025 at 6:00 PM.
The City Council will hold a 2°? PUBLIC HEARING on the proposed amendment
Thursday March 6, 2025 at 6:00 PM or soon thereafter.
Comment and inquiries for additional information on the proposed amendment to the Holladay City
General Plan may be sent to:
Ann Frances Garcia,
Economic Development & Housing Manager
385-425-0853
email: annfgarcia@holladayut.gov
eee ————————————————————————————s
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT --MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
ELEMENT

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing on Tuesday, February 18, 2025, at 6:00 pm. The purpose of this public meeting is a
public hearing on the proposed revisions of the Moderate-Income Housing Element to the General
Plan (Chapter 5). The proposed amendment is general and only includes additions to the
numbering of action items and tasks to assist in the reporting process. Following the first public
hearing, the Planning Commission will forward a recommendation to the City Council. The City
Council will make a final decision in a separate meeting.
A draft of the Moderate-Income Housing Element will be available for review starting February
10, 2025 on the City's website, www-holladayut.gov or during regular business hours at the
Holladay City offices, 4580 S 2300 E, Holladay UT 84117.
The public can watch the live video stream of the meeting remotely at
https://www.holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php To make a public comment
or to provide input during any public hearing, you can do so in the following ways:

1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall.

2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the meeting date to jteerlink@holladayut.gov .or

call 801-527-3890.
CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice
was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut gov the Utah Public Notice website
www.utah.gov/pmn, and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have
indicated interest.
DATE POSTED: Thursday, February 6, 2025 at 2:00 pm
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay
Stephanie Carlson
From: Stephanie Carlson
Sent: Thursday, February 6, 2025 1:54 PM
To: Cottonwood Heights; Deseret News; Erin Litvack; Francis Lilly; Holladay Library; Janet
Lopez; Jennifer Kennedy; L. Larsen; Travis- Valley Journals; Trudy Jorgensen-Price - |
Library

Subject: General Plan hearing noticee
Attachments: MIH GP Revisions Hearing.pdf
Attached is the notice for a public hearing before the Planning Commission on Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2025 at 6:00 pm on |
proposed revisions of the Moderate-Income Housing Element to the General Plan (Chapter 5). If you have any |
questions, please contact Ann Francis Garcia at 385-425-0853 |
Please print & post as applicable.
Stephanie

Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC

City Recorder

Phone: 801-527-3890

Web: www.holladayut.gov

Email: scarlson@holladayut.gov

City of Holladay ee oO
1
CITY OF HOLLADAY
NOTICE OF CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT, MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING ELEMENT

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Holladay City Council will hold a public hearing on
Thursday, March 6, 2025, at 6:00 PM, or soon thereafter. The purpose of this hearing is to
consider proposed amendments to the Moderate-Income Housing Element of the General Plan
(Chapter 5). The proposed amendments consist of housekeeping items that include additions to
the numbering of action items and tasks to improve the reporting process.
A recommended draft of the Moderate-Income Housing Element will be available for review on
the City's website, www.holladayut.gov or during regular business hours at the Holladay City
offices, 4580 S 2300 E, Holladay UT 84117.
The proposed amendments are available for public inspection on the City’s website
www.-holladayut.gov and at the Community Development Dept. during normal business hours.
The public can watch the live video stream of the meeting remotely at
https://www.holladayut.gov/government/agendas_and_minutes.php To make a public comment
or to provide input during any public hearing, you can do so in the following ways:

1. In-person attendance at Holladay City Hall.

2. Email your comments by 5:00 PM on the meeting date to scarlson@holladayut.gov or

call 801-272-9450
CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above agenda notice was
posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov the Utah Public Notice website www.utah. gov/pmn,
and was emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune and Desert News and others who have indicated interest.
DATE POSTED: Friday, February 21, 2025 AT 9:30 am
Stephanie N. Carlson MMC,
City Recorder City of Holladay ;
Stephanie Carlson
From: Stephanie Carlson
Sent: Friday, February 21, 2025 9:44 AM
To: Cottonwood Heights; Deseret News; Erin Litvack; Francis Lilly; Holladay Library; Jariet
Lopez; Jennifer Kennedy; L. Larsen; Travis- Valley Journals; Trudy Jorgensen-Price -
Library

Subject: City Council Hearings
Attachments: MIH GP Amend.HOusekeeping.pdf; micro schools Notice.pdf
Attached are 2 notices for public hearings before the Holladay City Council on Thursday, March 6,
2025. The first hearing is a General Plan amendment to the Moderate Income Housing element, The
second hearing is an ordinance amendment to Titles 13 and 5 regarding micro-schools.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.
Please print & post as applicable.
Thanks
Stephanie

Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC

City Recorder

Phone: 801-272-9450

Direct Line: 801-527-2454
City of Holladay Email: scarlson@holladayut.gov

Web: www.HolladayUT.gov

000

|
So
