Do you have additional strategies to report?
No

How does the jurisdiction track Accessory Dwelling Units?
Count of building permits

Total Number of Accessory Dwelling Units in the Jurisdiction
Based on available records of when we started tracking permits for this at the
start of 2022, we have records of 5 approved internal ADU's.

Total number of building permits to construct an ADU in the jurisdiction granted
the previous year:
2022: 4

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU in the jurisdiction
granted the previous year:
N/A

Total number of other types of permit or license issued for an ADU in the
jurisdiction granted the previous year:
N/A

What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement
the moderate income housing strategies?
Housing supply data, Housing needs data, Planning technical assistance, Model
Ordinances, Case studies for strategies, Staff resources, Reporting technical
assistance, Guidebooks for planning and reporting

Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the jurisdiction in
implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (technical assistance,
resources, data, etc.)
N/A




Bluffdale
Type of Jurisdiction
Municipality (City, Town, Metro Township)

Link to Plan
https://www.bluffdale.com/DocumentCenter/View/5393/2022-AMENDED-
                                                                                  27
MIHE-of-the-General-Planpdf

Link to Ordinance or Resolution
https://www.bluffdale.com/DocumentCenter/View/5394/MIH-Report---2022-
AMENDED---Ordinance-2023-04-Finalpdf

Has the municipality amended the Moderate Income Housing Element since the
last notice of compliance was issued?
No

Strategy #1
(E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
accessory dwelling units in residential zones

Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
Our first identified action was to add a FAQ sheet to our city website to improve
and streamline our education and information to the public, regarding the
ADU ordinance. We were able to do so on April 24th, 2023, for internal ADUs,
which has helped the public and other Staff. The FAQ contains links to the City
Ordinance and ADU application. Through a streamlined building permit process
of coordination between the planning and building departments, we have
been able to better communicate with the public who approach the building
department regarding their existing or new basement or detached structure
about ADU options.

Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy.
No land use decisions were needed to be made, in relation to the action of
creating a FAQ sheet to post on our website.

Starting in December 2022, we discussed the policy for allowing detached ADUs
with the City Council. The policy discussion also included how to encourage
others to seek out legal ADU permits within their existing structures where
illegal units may currently be operating.

On May 24th, 2023, after several Planning Commission and City Council
meetings, a new ADU ordinance was approved by the City Council which allows
detached ADUs in many circumstances and which updated other ministerial
provisions regarding internal ADUs. We will refresh our website with updated
FAQs based on the new ordinance by the end of 2023.


                                                                               28
Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
The land use decision to pass the new, updated ADU ordinance supported our
efforts to further progress for legal ADUs and encourage more legal permits
in the City. By extending the ordinance to detached ADUs, it provides more
options for affordable housing through the flexible use of ADUs. Other specifics
in the code also support the facilitation of more ADUs in the city, like setbacks
for example. The setbacks for detached ADUs are the same as other accessory
structures rather than a greater setback requirement in most cases (some
exceptions and additional regulations for two story balconies and overlooking
windows to maintain privacy for neighbors within a certain distance). That
and other development standards discussed and passed helps to make the
ordinance and receiving ADU permits more attainable and will encourage more
people to have the ability to create legal, safe ADUs which meet the safety
standards of the adopted building codes.

Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in
implementing this strategy.
No barriers were applicable to the action of creating a FAQ sheet.

No significant barriers were encountered in the City Council ADU discussion
getting the amended ADU ordinance approved. The main difficulties were
the duration of time (8 meetings) and policy debates about certain specific
ordinance standards, such as size and proportion to the primary dwelling and
design standards. The Council wanted to make sure that the ADUs remained
subordinate and not be deemed a second complete home.


Number and type of new units permitted
We have had 4 ADUs so far this year, and another in the process. 2 Internal
ADUs and 2 Detached ADUs have been approved and finalized.

Number and type of affordable units added
We don’t have available data on the rental price of the ADUs, just the size of
the unit, so it is difficult to assess affordability

Number and type of affordable units rehabbed
we are not currently administering a rehabilitation program

Number and type of units converted from other uses
difficult to ascertain, typically an internal ADU repurposes an existing finished

                                                                                 29
or unfinished space within a single family dwelling; detached ADU repurpose
or add internal construction to accessory buildings which are often used for
storage or home occupation business uses

Change in local rent amounts
we do not have this information

Change in the number of people displaced
we believe ADUs do not displace anyone

Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
difficult to ascertain, but we are increasing the number of units for different
household types

Change in the share of household income spent on housing
we do not have this data

The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies
one; a comprehensive land use text amendment for Accessory Dwelling Units

Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed
during the implementation of strategies.
Other than the number of permits since adoption, the market response is hard
to measure. However, anecdotally we are getting more calls and inquiries
and the word is getting out to the community that this is an option for their
properties.
According to the market and city awareness, many illegal D-ADUs exist in the
community and there is significant desire to be allowed to create D-ADUs. With
the massive number of large lots in Bluffdale, many residents have the land
and capacity to have and rent out D-ADUs. With the aging population, many
Bluffdale residents could benefit from the updated ADU ordinance, allowing a
greater variety of ADUs for them to age in place and live near their family and
remain in their hometown where they grew up.

By streamlining ADUs to be tracked through building permits, we have received
an uptick of ADU applications and inquiries, seeking information to obtain a
legal ADU. This all became possible since exposure to ADUs came out with the
updated, recently approved ordinance. Now when a detached garage permit
comes in, and there’s a potential living space shown – we respond by requiring
a legal ADU permit to occur for that corresponding living space. The market
and the geographical attributes of the Bluffdale large lots were clearly ahead
of the ordinance change.

                                                                                  30
Strategy #2
(F) zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential
development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers

Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
In 2023-2024, we anticipated recording of Reagan Cove Plat, completion of
infrastructure, and commencement of building permits issuance for 28 housing
units of the 55+ zone. So far in 2023, the Reagan Cove Plat has been recorded,
on 5.26.23. The next step is the building permit for the 28 housing units. The
infrastructure for the project is currently being completed.
In 2023, we anticipated site plan and construction approval for multi-family
apartments for the Centrum special district zone which was created and
located near major transportation corridors, Porter Rockwell Boulevard and
14600 South. This parcel is also near I-15 and The Point, which will contain the
closest transit nodes to the City of Bluffdale. Leading up to this, on September
28, 2022, the City Council approved the density increase from 236 to 252 multi-
family units (after original 2022 MIH reporting date).

On October 5, 2022, since the original MIH reporting date (October 1st, 2022),
the assisted living facility was able to progress by getting a Conditional Use
Permit and Site Plan approved for 82 residential bedrooms(units). In 2023, we
anticipate the building permit to be issued and construction to begin soon
shortly after. Currently, they are working on their building permit process and
required infrastructure.

In January of 2023, the City Council approved a rezone for the Mixed-Use
Special District, the Bluffs at Point Crossing which contains 50 attached
townhome units, along with potential commercial along the Porter Rockwell
Boulevard state highway.

In June, 2023, the staff discussed the potential mixed-use opportunities along
the high-capacity transportation corridor of 14600 South with the City Council.
In preparation for the city council meeting to discuss this action, we were able
to provide map analysis of an approximate boundary for the 14600 Corridor
Land Use study area, which included general plan, zoning, and existing
residential densities entitled in the corridor consisting of the Centrum Special
District Zone, Hotel Gateway Zone, Marketplace at Independence and the
Mixed Use Zone. During the meeting, we discussed specific opportunities for

                                                                                  31
mixed-use areas in some commercially zoned areas as well existing mixed-use
zones along with constraints with existing entitlements and property owner
scenarios.

Some influencing factors for 14600 Corridor housing opportunities are:
increased traffic on Bluffdale Boulevard (14600 South) including one lane
bridge reconstruction and opening of Porter Rockwell Blvd; The Point
development; new industrial development nearby; and desirable locations
between tech hubs and Silicon Slopes. The City Council meeting was held on
June 28th, 2023. Going forward we plan to continue these policy discussions
with the goal to pursue or encourage mixed-use opportunities, particularly
multi-family housing in these few areas that may be most ideal such uses or
further refine or expand the study area.


Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy.
One recent land use decisions has occurred in the last year for the specific
actions - the rezone- thee Mixed-Use Special District, the Bluffs at Point
Crossing, which occurred in January of 2023, for 50 townhome units. The other
items have had rezones previously and are having other steps of progress for
their projects.

For the 14600 Corridor discussion with the City Council, no land use decision
was made but the general plan and the zoning scheme for the area was
discussed at a work session. The discussion led to ideas for another work
session with potential land use decisions or study area refinement in the future.

Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
Rezones that have occurred previously related to these actions have
contributed to the goal of getting higher density in key mixed use zones,
near commercial areas and transportation corridors. There will be additional
discussion of future projects along 14600 S that will support the strategy to for
more density in key areas.

Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in
implementing this strategy.
Barriers for the Reagan Cove Plat item consisted of difficult public hearings with
many residents opposing the proposed density, due to its location on the west
side of Bluffdale, where many desire 1-acre lots to remain as the standard.
Barriers for the Centrum Special District is neighborhood concern about traffic

                                                                               32
increases and compatibility.

Barriers for the Assisted Living Site Plan is primarily infrastructure and timing.
They also had to receive a Conditional Use Permit to be allowed the assisted
living use, which took extra time in the beginning for the application and
approval processes. Additionally, infrastructure needed to be built and is still
in process due to the difficult winter for road construction, which has put them
behind schedule.

Barriers for Bluffs at Point Crossing Rezone (Mixed Use Special District) –
wanting to make sure we had the right amount of commercial included, and to
guarantee timing of some commercial development so that we see the mix of
uses come to fruition.

Barriers for 14600 South (Bluffdale Boulevard) mixed use rezoning
opportunities:
•      Existing zoning framework is focused on commercial and industrial
•      Willing development partners/sellers are limited, especially when new
entitlements are required and existing commercial and industrial market is
robust
•      Current development projects under construction with more phases to
come
•      Limited number of available sites
•      Limited overall acreage in this part of the community

Number and type of new units permitted
412 entitled units to be permitted, 0 building permits so far at this time

Number and type of affordable units added
no market data on sales price

Number and type of affordable units rehabbed
the rezoning item did not include a rehabilitation component

Number and type of units converted from other uses
none. These were vacant properties being rezoned

Change in local rent amounts
no data

Change in the number of people displaced
none. Property was vacant

                                                                                 33
Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
no data

Change in the share of household income spent on housing
no data. No units built yet. No price data

The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies
4 associated with this strategy with future associated actions to occur. 1 of
them was rezoned in 2023, The Bluffs at Point Crossing.

Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed
during the implementation of strategies.
The market was favorable for mixed use in the area, near The Point as well as
the existing mixed-use housing and commercial on the West side near 2700
West and Bangerter. This makes for a favorable and desired area for more
mixed-use projects. The market is also very hot for industrial and flex space
commercial entitlements, as well as data centers; many property owners are
satisfied with the existing zoning. Also, we have some legacy landowners who
are willing to hold their land for much longer. Bluffdale is at a disadvantage for
the total number of available acres compared to some of our neighboring cities.

Strategy #3
(P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from
a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community
development and renewal agency to create or subsidize moderate income
housing

Describe each action taken by the municipality during the previous 12 months to
implement this moderate income housing strategy.
We are still making annual payments to the income restricted apartments,
The Bluffs, near Bangerter and Redwood. The last payment was for $93,059
and was made on 9/15/2022. The upcoming annual payment will occur by
October 31, 2023. The housing set aside amount is based on the total increment
collected the previous year in the Gateway RDA.

The City Council has budgeted $1 million for affordable housing in the Eastern
Bluffdale EDA in the FY23-24 budget.
In 2023, we met with the Salt Lake County housing trust fund program staff
several times to discuss an interlocal agreement between our RDA and the
County. We discussed specific options for our housing funds to go to affordable
housing, that would benefit Bluffdale or the surrounding area. We are about

                                                                                34
90% complete with the policy negotiations but have not completed that
agreement with SLCO. We will provide funds to the housing trust fund, utilizing
an Interlocal Agreement Contract, specifying options for the fund allocation. We
had a few meetings regarding the ILA and created a timeline over the course of
5 years regarding our plan for partnering with a reinvestment agency to plan
our allocation of funds. The draft ILA establishes a plan with the housing trust
fund to create 1-, 3-, and 5-year goals for the housing trust fund partnership.
The next meeting with SLCO is set for August 10, 2023.

Some specifics we discussed with SLCO regarding fund allocation, which have
not been finalized:
•      Maintenance costs to existing affordable housing projects for renovation
•      Provide funds for workforce and teacher housing costs in the city (to live
and work in the city)
•      Approach existing projects and provide some funds to subsidize existing
units or single-family homes
•      Provide current developers money to subsidize a certain percentage of
units

Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made by the municipality
during the previous 12 month period to implement this strategy.
A land use decision will not be involved in this strategy as this will occur with
staff internally.

Describe how any land use regulations or land use decisions support the
municipality's efforts to implement the strategy.
NA, see previous answer

Describe any barriers encountered by the municipality in the previous year in
implementing this strategy.
There have not been a lot of active development projects to partner with in
Bluffdale who are interested; limited land area for future rezonings which would
lead to buying in to a future project; and the complexity of negotiating ILAs
with two entities.

Number and type of new units permitted
none related to this action

Number and type of affordable units added
none related to this action as of yet

Number and type of affordable units rehabbed

                                                                               35
none as of yet

Number and type of units converted from other uses
none as of yet

Change in local rent amounts
no data available

Change in the number of people displaced
none that we are aware of

Change in the number of households experiencing housing cost burden
no data

Change in the share of household income spent on housing
no data

The number of rezones associated with MIH strategies
none

Provide narrative describing the market responses the jurisdiction has observed
during the implementation of strategies.
While working with Salt Lake County staff on developing the interlocal
agreement for the Housing Trust Fund, we discussed the South Valley market
extensively and its relationship to The Point and what other cities are doing.
Early indications are that there may be some interest from other nearby cities
to pool resources with the Housing Trust Fund or another mechanism to provide
funding near The Point for affordable housing. Until then, we will be finalizing
our interlocal with SLCO.

Do you have additional strategies to report?
No

How does the jurisdiction track Accessory Dwelling Units?
Count of building permits, Accessory Dwelling Unit Applications

Total Number of Accessory Dwelling Units in the Jurisdiction
15

Total number of building permits to construct an ADU in the jurisdiction granted
the previous year:
2022 – none, 2023 – 4 building permits to construct an ADU

                                                                              36
